ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the debate on the Spring paper. A very warm welcome to the Minister of Finance. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV. Before he starts his story, I'd like to go over the rules of the game. We have quite limited time due to the debate on the Climate Agreement, which is also following this evening. I would therefore ask that it be kept short but forceful. We agree: two interruptions and those interruptions go in two. Mr. Nijboer always has a wise interpretation and he says outside the microphone: four. Yeah, it could be four shorts, but four shorts at once. Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two interruptions or those four shorts is indeed a bit little, but yes well... We are discussing the Spring Paper today, President, and we are seeing the economy cool down. The rack's out. The mood among the purchasing managers has also turned and reached the lowest point in six years, just above 50, and that doesn't predict much good. And consumer confidence is also negative for the first time in four years. In this Spring note we see that all rosy predictions are substantially adjusted downwards. The economy does not grow by 2.6% but by 1.5%, consumption does not grow by 2.3% but by 1.3% and purchasing power does not grow by 1.6% but by 1.2%. Tough adjustment down. People therefore have little confidence in it. That is understandable, because every year their golden mountains are promised, but none of it ends up. And after the acid comes sweet, remember? Everyone's gonna notice that things are getting better economically. It should have been there a long time ago, but for the third year in a row it has remained sweet for the people and by the time it has to be sweet, we are already in a next recession and we can write the sweet weather on our belly. Mr. Chairman. That's the way it goes over and over again and again. For example, the Spring note shows a great windfall of 1.5 billion and the surplus is 7 billion this year. That is almost 10 billion and there is no shortage of money. But where's that money going? Not to the people, that much is clear. It'll go to a children's pardon. There will be 150 million to the asylum industry, 318 million extra to Brussels and 400 million extra to the climate. Defense gets 1.2 billion, while there are billions left on the shelf. But again nothing for the people of this country, when you see that the purchasing power promise of 1.6% is not reached. Then why not intervene now, I ask the Minister. The money is there, only the strength is lacking. Mr. Chairman. Because of the wrong policy of this cabinet with all its burden increases, prices rise even more than wages. How do you get it done? And yelling that everybody's gonna feel better. People do feel something: they feel cheated. That's what they feel. This minister raises VAT on messages and increases taxes on energy, and then he is surprised that inflation is rising faster than wages! He does it himself. The cabinet also presents itself as a "good news" cabinet, but first Rutte together with Asscher has completely cut the costs and increased the burden by 16 billion. And now Wobke Hoekstra comes to stick the patches. First of all, it is hard to clean up defence, education, care for the elderly and youth, and now it is supposed to make a generous gesture by adding money. And then try to sell this as good news. One example is the energy bill. If we all have to believe it, it will go down by €100 next year, after it went up by €334 earlier this year. Or take the nurses: there will be 100,000 nurses, but after 77.000 nurses have been fired in a previous cabinet period. You shouldn't have fired them! First, we cut back 0.5 billion on the police, then we cut back 0.25 billion and now we cut back 111 million. What is it? They do nothing, but Secretary Hoekstra's Band-Aids are usually too little too late. Also at the VVD they are completely lost. "Working Netherlands earns lower taxes" has now become Europe's burden champion. The collective burden has never been so high. The burden increased twice as much in the Netherlands as in the rest of Europe. They also turn on all points of view, in order to become foolhardy. A few examples. "Hands off the mortgage interest rate deduction'. Remember? And then put the axe in it. "Never drive a bill, never never" is now "must be, after 2026." Or abolishing the dividend tax. That was "a must, a necessary evil." And yet it doesn't have to be now. A CO tax would be detrimental to the climate of establishment, and yet it is not that bad if we believe the climate agreement. "Windmills run on subsidy," but let's fill the Netherlands with those things! Mrs Lodders said in the last AO about the fiscal policy agenda that she did regret the VAT increase, but this morning I heard her say at BNR that she regretted the bpm increase. Then don't raise those taxes! I think Mrs Lodder regrets being part of the VVD, the party of charges. Look at the energy bill I already said it or the extra labor discount: €1,000 extra promise, and then the VVD thinks it's crazy that people no longer have faith in politics! Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the lap machine is working overtime. Yesterday we said goodbye to MP number 32 since this cabinet took office. They've been going on for over a year and 32 MPs have already left this house, one in five makes the defense. They're looking for a nice job as mayor, alderman or at the United Nations, as long as they can. This speaks volumes. The coalition isn't there for the people in this country, it's there for itself. A working man can pay, even pay too much. Last year we all paid EUR 11.3 billion too much. This year we pay EUR 7 billion too much. That's 18 billion too much tax money collected in two years! That is not a €1,000 extra, that is €1,000 off for every Dutchman. One in three Dutch people has serious money worries in 2019, and this minister is touches 18 billion too much! Pure theft, chairman. Since the start of the crisis, public expenditure has increased by 50 billion, but in that period the burden on citizens doubled, while the burden on business fell. So the citizens paid the 50 billion bill in full. It is therefore not surprising that yesterday Laura of Spirit of the CPB, who at last woke up, said the alarm clock about the imbalance between the tax burden on labour and that on capital. She even warned of the tax morale because of the rising burden on labour, while those on capital remained the same. The cake has not been distributed fairly in the Netherlands for decades and I have been calling for attention to this for years: the so-called AIQ problem. Is the Minister finally gonna fix this? It can't be that you've been billing the citizens and leaving business alone for 20 years. The burden on labour is simply too high in the Netherlands. And then you can say that wages must be raised, but if you skim more than half of every euro's increase in wages to the treasury, then that doesn't get us anywhere. I quote someone who has researched this: "that explains why household net disposable income is lagging behind rising gross wages," says Widmar Bolhuis of Leiden University. In other words, in my own words: the Dutch pay their taxes and everything we get is immediately skimmed by the mob gang of Rutte cum suis. Finally, Mr President, something about multinationals. During a hearing it became clear that they are indeed not paying any tax at all. The Philipsen, the Akzos, the Unilevers and the Shells of this world don't pay anything to the treasury. They do benefit from the beautiful infrastructure, from the well-educated population, from the good care for their expats, but they don't contribute, and they can't. A cashier at Albert Heijn pays even more taxes than Shell, Unilever, Akzo and Philips combined. What's Menno Snel, the second man at the Treasury, gonna do about that? It scared me. Nothing at all. He doesn't think it's necessary. I quote him: "For the time being, I am pleased with the situation we are in." What's this? Can the Minister pick this up, for God's sake? Because we don't have to expect much from the Secretary of State. It does not intend to put the multinationals in the way of one straw, so much is clear. I hope the Minister will pick up that signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you. Mrs De Vries of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every day millions of Dutch people work to make our country even better. Things are still going well and in recent years they have been much better with our country. Only, all those hardworking Dutch people still feel that too little in their wallet. So we have to keep fighting for that. They must be rewarded for their efforts. Purchasing power is still lagging behind for many people, and wage increases are also lagging behind expectations. Hence Mark Rutte's perfectly justified appeal during the VVD-festival to the big companies in our country. A lot of companies in our country are doing well. As a VVD, we are committed to a good business location environment to provide jobs. But then we can ask for something from these companies, to contribute to our society and to give more air to those people who work hard every day at the companies. So companies have to raise wages. The VVD is committed to that reciprocity. Companies need to take on their social role again, as Philips did in the past by building housing for their employees. Our party leader has also indicated that if wages do not increase further, we will look at appropriate measures. In the collective bargaining process, this requires something from employers, but also from trade unions: more commitment to real wage increases. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear as well: we will not support any motions or amendments on this at the moment. As far as we are concerned, the big companies are the first move. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the government can do things. The VVD is therefore pleased that last Friday the cabinet announced an additional reduction of the energy tax by about €100 for the average Dutchman, a reduction of a total of 425 million euros. But let me be clear: we are not here yet. If there are possibilities in the near future, the VVD will focus on further burden relief for middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u5	Mr Alkaya has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u6	The VVD makes a proper appeal, but then the VVD does not have any consequences. 'Cause then what's the deadline? If not today, when will the companies have to come up with significant wage increases before the VVD intervenes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u7	There have been a number of debates before this. They also tried to pin percentages and a deadline. I'm not gonna do that today. I think that the call has been very clear and that has also been very clear that if wages are not going to rise, we will then make a number of proposals for action. I think our call has just been very clear. We want people to get more money through the increase in wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u8	The Tax Plan is a fairly natural deadline. It is not a natural deadline in that sense, but we have all agreed here that this is the time when we are going to decide what the tax measures will be for the coming year. So that is also the time when we should intervene. If we do nothing, the tax on profits will simply go down, because that is the coalition's decision. If Mrs De Vries says here today 'even then, even with that Tax Plan, am I not prepared to intervene or say that I will intervene', what is worthy of such a statement? What is worthy of such a statement by the head of the cabinet that the tax on profits will not go down if wages do not rise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u9	I think it's normal that when you make a call to the business community, you give it space and time to meet that call. I think it is a bit of a Hague discussion to say: we should do that at the moment and you must set a deadline for that. As far as we are concerned, the companies are now the first move. I now see many colleagues coming forward. They are probably going to ask me the same question three or four times in a different form. I will not mention a deadline today, nor will I mention percentages today. I am sorry, therefore, to disappoint my fellow Members on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u10	The Hague is: for the bühne do scream something, and then do not add the deed to the word. I would therefore like to ask Mrs De Vries of the VVD when action could be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u11	As I said, whatever form you are going to ask me, I think it all comes down to the same question. I've already said I'm not going to mention a percentage and I'm not going to mention a deadline. Our call is clear. I think it is important that we believe that people should have more money in their pockets and that these wages have simply been left behind, which means that purchasing power is less than we would like. That is what we are asking of business, and that is what business is now doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u12	Can I ask a very specific question? At Prinsjesdag we have the figures of the Central Planning Bureau and the expectations for collective wage increases, and then we also see the developments in collective wage rates. Could we ask the cabinet to give an appreciation of wage increases up until then, so that we could continue the debate at that time? At least that seems to me to be a logical step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u13	I think we've made this very clear. And I believe that the Prime Minister, in his role as party leader at the time, also indicated a little crooked in the oral questions that we do not want to commit ourselves to when it should be. We really need to give these companies room for that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u14	I am a little surprised, because this was the biggest point of the VVD festival, and now the purchasing power for people seems to have become a sort of bill ride at the VVD: it may be thought about and talked about, but only after this cabinet period something changes. The reduction in the tax on profits will begin on 1 January 2020, won't it? That's what the Prime Minister was referring to, isn't it? That's what his call was linked to, isn't it? You'd have to find something before January 1st, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u15	This too, I think, is another attempt to call me a deadline. I've already indicated that I'm not going to mention it now. I have made it quite clear that we believe that this increase in wages should be made. I have also indicated that we will look at measures if they do not. But I'd like to do it in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u16	I didn't make it all up, but the VVD seems to have come to the conclusion: that tax on profits is not popular and we don't deliver on purchasing power promises, so we have to do something. Then it was said: we are going to call into question the profit tax of 4 billion. That measure will enter into force on 1 January. I didn't make that up either, and I voted against it, but it was all adopted by the Chambers. The Prime Minister, the leader of the VVD, did that. I am currently with a spokesperson of the VVD in the Chamber and the VVD is about those laws. And now the VVD says, "Well, before January 1st, you won't hear from me." That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u17	I didn't mention a deadline. You're filling that out now with a deadline, and with whether or not. As far as I'm concerned, that deadline isn't here. I think it is important that these companies are now on the move. We ask these companies to do something in return for society. On average, we believe that this increase in wages is now too low for large companies. And the most important thing for us is that we're finally going to see that people have more left in their wallets, and we're also looking at the middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u18	I think it's very cheap to drop the ball at the companies right now. This cabinet has promised an increase of 1.6% this year. So this Prime Minister has said: people must feel that things are improving economically in the Netherlands. And now it's disappointing. Instead of putting your hand into your own bosom, instead of reducing the burden on people so that the purchasing power promise is fulfilled, you put the ball into business and you say: no, the companies must keep our promises and the companies must increase wages. Why don't you do something yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u19	I think the Rutte III cabinet is doing the right thing. There is a net reduction in labour costs of 5.2 billion. I have just said that I am very pleased that it has now been decided that the energy tax is going further down, with EUR 425 million. Furthermore, we are always willing to look at load relief when there is room. That will also be a priority for us. I would certainly not call that "doing nothing."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u20	It's not doing anything. It's fooling people and turning a wheel in their eyes. That's what you do. You increase the energy bill by €334 and now you are here playing nicely again that the energy bill will go down by €100 next year. For the people at home it still goes up by €234 compared to last year. So you shouldn't walk nicely to announce again here. You say that the burden on labour is falling. No, the Council of State, everyone has passed it on: the burden on labour continues to increase this cabinet period. Everyone knows that. So you're trying to fool people. People won't be fooled anymore, because they know they're being fooled by the VVD. Why don't you fix your purchasing power promise of 1.6%? You're not gonna make that happen right now. You stand there and you put the ball in business. That's cheap rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u21	What I find cheap rhetoric is that the PVV compares apples with pears. I've been talking about the energy tax. That's something we've got guidance on as House of Representatives. I have no influence on gas prices. You are talking about the energy bill, but I am talking about what we do influence. We've been acting on that, too. We've seen that this caused a lot of unrest in humans. That is why I am glad that we have actually arranged €100 relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u22	I'm really starting to get a little angry right now. Now this spokesperson of the VVD pretends...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u23	Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u24	Mrs De Vries pretends that she could not do anything about this €334 and that this was due to gas prices. That's not true. Half was policy of this cabinet or of the previous cabinet. At least half was the gas price, but the other half is indeed politically motivated. Don't "we couldn't do anything about it" and you name it, because you can do something about it. You have increased the VAT. That's what drives inflation up. That's why people have less purchasing power. That makes sense, doesn't it? You raise the bpm. That's why fewer cars are sold. You can say 'we can't do anything about it', but you can do anything about it. You sell tales and tell fables to people. You say "you're gonna feel it in the wallet," but then you're gonna go back to robbing that wallet. It's over now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u25	I think it is a very nice story from the PVV, but the increase in VAT has been returned directly and one-on-one in the reduction in income tax. When it comes to the energy tax, we have now acted and we have said: we arrange that the average Dutchman has to pay €100 less. I think it's a little easy. You can easily scream on the sidelines now, but you walked away when it got difficult. I think that's too easy. We're in the middle of taking care of things. You're talking about the bpm. If I look at what was achieved from the original draft Climate Agreement, that is among other things the bpm increase. That's what the VVD fought very hard for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u26	It seems very much that we cannot expect any action from the VVD today. That doesn't help people at home. In any case, that is what we can see. I want to talk about the outcome. Can Mrs De Vries rule out the fact that neither wages nor wages will increase significantly and that the tax on profits will go down anyway? Can she rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u27	That's a bit of the same question in a different form. I think that we have been clear about the fact that we believe that the bigger companies are now in the move, should set an example and take up their role in society by offering more wage increases. If that is not the case, we have also been clear as VVD. Then we will come up with proposals for action. I think this is very clear. I have already indicated a number of things that are clearly the actions that the VVD takes and does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u28	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u29	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is not a political party that says that economic growth would no longer be important and that it is only about happiness or prosperity. For this prosperity, for that well-being and for that happiness, we need economic growth very badly. We need these to maintain our facilities, such as education, the AOW, care, social security, security and infrastructure, which we have built up over the past few decades. That is why we need growth. The VVD does not simply accept that 1.5% is the new normal when it comes to economic growth, as the director of the Central Planning Bureau recently pointed out. It will be harder to achieve economic growth, but we will fight for every promille economic growth. We must continue to see how we can increase that growth again. This can be done by investing effectively in defence and infrastructure. This can be done through more purchasing power and higher salaries, which I have just spoken about. But this can also be done through higher employment rates and labour productivity, and by focusing on a competitive economy, on technology, research and development and innovation. The VVD is curious how the cabinet wants to increase its growth power. What is the Minister's explanation for the somewhat flattening growth in the Netherlands? What are the causes of this? Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet in this Spring paper also makes money available for important tasks, such as speeding up the phasing-out of the Groningen gas, asylum and migration, climate and defence. Of course, the extra money for defence is far from enough to reach the 2% standard. After a strong boost of EUR 1.5 billion at the start of this cabinet, this is once again a step in the right direction. Also here: we are not there yet, but you cannot jump off the floor in the attic. In addition to defence equipment, staffing in particular is a concern for the Defence Department. To solve that, much needs to be done. Defence personnel systems and rewards must be brought more into line with the civilian world. The VVD is therefore very pleased that yesterday it was announced that there was agreement on a new collective agreement for Defence. That was very necessary. Our compliments to Secretary of State Visser and the unions, because they have now come out. The VVD would like to know exactly how Defense is going to use the extra resources from the Spring Note. When can it be clarified? Mr. Chairman. It is also good that extra money will be provided for youth care, science and technology training and the Ministry of Justice and Security. Recently, my colleague Roald van der Linde presented a list of wishes for a harder approach to money laundering. On Monday, the cabinet presented an approach against money laundering and undermining. As far as we are concerned, it is a good thing that extra money will be available for this. There has also been additional money for some smaller things, but they are therefore no less important. These include extra money for combating drug dumping, extra drugs and phone dogs in prisons, money for tackling anti-Semitism, extra money for police equipment, extra supervision of jihadism and extra border surveillance. But it is also the lock and bridge that are important for the region at Kornwerderzand. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to a few more financial and technical issues. They may be a little less sexy, but they're important. First of all, the targets. In the Autumn note, the Minister promised to solve and fill in the targets in the Spring note or budget. It seems that this means that the targets are not really fulfilled, but are cancelled by paying them out of the general funds or covering them with the wage and price adjustment. This is actually a vulgar cheese dish. Previously, the VVD indicated that the problem of targets is often dealt with too easily. How does the Minister view that? What has his role been in completing those targets? Secondly, the estimates. Once again, in the spring note, there are windfalls in the care. It is increasingly difficult to explain that the estimates are too high. It is, of course, nice that the cost of care is not so bad, but unfortunately it is not the only issue where the estimates are often wrong. This is also the case with Social Affairs and Education. Is the Minister prepared to take up the gauntlet to really improve the estimates substantially in consultation with the Central Planning Office and the relevant ministries? On 24 June, Minister Hugo de Jonge also reported an overrun of the Long-Term Care Act of approximately 470 million euros. Why wasn't this just included in the spring note? The way in which it is now estimated and informed does not give the House any room for proper control or adjustment. In August there will also be new figures on the Wlz. Are there any higher exceedances expected and what causes them? How does the Minister of Finance see a role for himself in this? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the General Financial Reviews and the Autumn Note, I have already made a point of the collective burden and expenditure. We must continue to think about reducing collective burdens and spending in order to increase purchasing power for the middle class. In the case of expenditure, we do not avoid looking at the expenditure on health and social security, which accounts for about two thirds of all collective expenditure. We need to see how we can curb it, otherwise this expenditure will be cut off in the future. The Minister would work with his colleagues in Social Affairs and Health, Welfare and Sport to find a solution for the future. What has the Minister done in concrete terms over the past period? What are the results of that? What else is he gonna do? Finally. There is a beautiful spring note with necessary extra expenses for Defence, to absorb the reduction of the gas from Groningen and for many other things. The cabinet has shown some nice things, such as the Labour Market Act in balance, the pension agreement and the climate agreement. But this cabinet is certainly not ready. As far as the VVD is concerned, this cabinet needs to work on reducing burdens, curbing expenditure and strengthening economic growth. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u30	Thank you. Mr Snels van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u31	Mr. Chairman. If large companies are not quick to raise wages, then we should remove the reduction in the tax on profits. That was about the Prime Minister's words a few weeks ago. Does the Minister of Finance agree with the Prime Minister? How is he going to shape this in the budget preparation? Is he going to look at the CPB estimates in August as soon as possible and then put the deletion of the Vpb reduction on the table? This debate is, of course, about the very heart of social discontent. The Minister himself has sometimes made comments about the excessive wage increases in CEOs of large companies, and this is also part of the discontent and unfair distribution of wealth. But if, as a cabinet, you invest billions in burden relief for companies while people's purchasing power is lagging behind because the messages are getting more expensive and the energy bill is rising, you also have a problem. The threat to large companies is justified, but what role does the government play in all these blocked collective agreements in the public sector? In the case of the Defense Department, it seems to have been resolved, but what about the various collective agreements in education and care? In my view, it is the combined challenge facing this cabinet: to ensure an energy transition that achieves the climate goals while at the same time ensuring that people also feel that they are benefiting from an increase in broad prosperity. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet does good things, too. This Spring note contains quite a lot of policy additions. The presentation of the Spring paper was also accompanied by great words: more money for youth care, more for education and more for defence. There are major bottlenecks in the public sector and we have often had a debate on this in the last two years, but now a number of steps are being taken and that is good. I do think we should be honest about the figures. Against the pluses are also loves. Let me give you three examples. I'll start with Child Services. Firstly, I noticed that the cabinet presented the intensification as an investment of 1 billion. In my view, that was a press release from the Finance Minister's colleagues. What do you mean, an investment of 1 billion? It's just a series of over 400 million and then another two years 300 million. We're not saying that the government is cutting profits tax by 12 billion, are we? Why this rhetorical trick? I actually think that the Finance Minister should look into this with his colleagues. There's a minus in the numbers because of the stair-on-strap-afsystematiek. Municipalities get more money for youth care, but less from the accres: 74 million less than expected on Princess Day, 249 million less than expected for 2020 and 388 million in 2021. Or, as colleagues of the finance minister in the cabinet would say, 711 million less acres if you add up the three years together. How does the Minister of Finance judge this? Does he think it is right that we should take another look at this system? It's still weird that you give with one hand and take with the other hand. One more example. The police are an important priority for this cabinet. In the coalition agreement, 267 million more were promised, but in the spring note we also see the minions. The salary/price adjustment is not awarded but used for a job assignment on JenV. This adjustment means for the police a minus of 18.5 million in the years 2019 to 2025. Additional funds promised for counter-terrorism and auxiliary officers, 33 million, are also being postponed. Among others, Mayor Aboutaleb of Rotterdam wrote us a letter of fire. What's your answer to him? Is this also giving with one hand and taking with the other hand? And that while the defense is getting more and more money, it is unclear what this should be spent on and where money remains on the shelf. How does the Minister rhyme with Understanding Quality and Careful Policy? I thought we were gonna do that differently. Then higher education and universities. In the Spring paper an advance is made on the results of the recent opinion of the Van Rijn Committee. This committee has recommended additional investments for beta technology and there is broad political support for this. But in the short term, especially in the year 2019, there is great uncertainty at universities about the consequences of this policy. The cabinet wants to make a soft landing of the financial impact of this advice on universities and, for scientific education, it will allocate 27 million. On the other hand, there is a reduction in the wage/price adjustment of 25.1 million for scientific education. Give it with one hand, take it with the other. During the note-taking meeting last Monday, it remained unclear what the effects of redistribution would be and it was not substantiated by the Minister of Education why redistribution should take place now while the adequacy of funding still needs to be investigated. How does this fit in with careful decision-making? Is this what the Minister means by Understanding Quality or Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act? I have made an amendment to this with Mr Westerveld. Our amendment deletes the discount on the salary adjustment for academic education for 2019 and only for 2019. The coverage of 25.1 million is found in the 220 million of windfalls in 2019 that this cabinet wants to use to fill the in=terminal. This is in line with the government's budgetary rules, as I say to the Minister. This amendment literally buys time for careful decision-making in the 2020 budget. I therefore hope for the support of the cabinet and the coalition. This is an opportunity to do this decision-making properly and carefully and to remove the unrest at universities. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u32	Thank you. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "During the total collapse of beliefs and ideologies, at least one is standing and remains vital: the economy. She is no longer dry science or cold intellectual activity, but she has evolved into the very latest spiritual movement. She is a strict faith without extraordinary inspiration, but in her complex schemes and models she displays a burning zeal that is much like a worship." Thus the philosopher Pascal Bruckner in his book Thou shalt be rich!. Even today, during the discussion of the spring note of this cabinet, the temptation will be great to point out that, by an impulse here or there, the citizen feels economic growth again: in his wallet, in the care of her bed, in the availability of a home or in the reduced workload for the classroom. An important framework on which we assess the Spring Note, i.e. stewardship. It's about good management. That good management is in the interest of the middle class, which is becoming increasingly clear that it is precisely this group that is under enormous pressure. Mr. Chairman. This is the cabinet of en-en-en-en-en-en-en-en: and relief of charges over a basic path and investment in the public sector as well as greening and a vital business environment and... The result is an expansionary fiscal policy, so expansive that our labour market can no longer keep pace with it. This makes it possible to complete exciting or infrastructure projects in time, or to find sufficient teachers to teach, enough police officers to ensure safety and sufficient caregivers and nurses to provide care. The great danger is that there will be enormous pressure to spend the money available in the allocated sectors. It will then be spent on matters that we may have to conclude with a head-shake afterwards that it was not so wise. Rent mastery is more than ever commanded. With regard to the disadvantaged maintenance of bridges and roads, I do have a question. Shouldn't you think of such a disadvantaged maintenance as some kind of debt? And shouldn't we include that in the annual papers? It is not just about maintenance, but about the disadvantaged maintenance that you think should take place quickly. We see wise stewardship of this cabinet in the measures taken around Groningen. Meevallers are used to absorb the lost benefits from Groningen. My group also welcomes the increase in defence expenditure. But I do support Mrs De Vries' question: what exactly is being done about it? But this will enable us to meet our NATO obligations more and more. As far as the CDA is concerned, NATO is an organisation whose importance for our country is clear. If you participate and enjoy the benefits of a club, you should not be behind when it comes to financial obligations. Another organisation we are part of is the EU. In a report to the Council of Europe, my colleague, Mr Omtzigt, noted that Malta did not comply with the values that we believe the EU is based on on on a number of essential issues relating to democracy and human rights. We are concerned that you can buy a passport in Malta and travel freely throughout the Schengen area. What steps can the Netherlands take to get Malta on the right democratic track? And if Malta does not reform democratically, is the Minister prepared to make an effort to ensure that Malta can no longer be part of the Schengen area? Unspent public investment can directly inhibit economic growth, which is once again piercing the wallet, a wallet that is already under pressure. Does the Minister share the OECD's conclusion that the middle class is under such pressure, including in the Netherlands, that it looks like a boat in rocky waters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u34	There is a question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u35	Still, a question of priorities. We can have a political debate on how far defence expenditure should be increased in the future. At the same time, we see that the extra funds there have not been able to be spent in recent times. In my opinion, the Minister of Finance has already argued a number of times why this is difficult. However, this spring note again opts for extra money for the Defense Department. We know that it stays on the shelf and at the same time the police are being cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u36	In our priorities we also have to deal with the fact that we are members of NATO. If you're a member of a club, that gives you obligations that you have to fulfill. Although in 2018 it turned out that we did not spend that money, that does not mean that we have not entered into any commitments to fill in the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u37	So you're in favour of cutting back on the police and leaving money on the shelf at the Department of Defense? I think that is a curious observation, especially since we already see so much unspent money lying there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u38	No, I'm being put in my mouth now. When it comes to defense, we haven't spent the money that should be spent for years and there's a catch-up mission. It turns out that the Ministry did not succeed in 2018, especially because there has been too much savings in the past, to spend that money. I hope this will work in 2019. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. A thorn in the middle class meat is the high collective burden. How does all income support outside income tax count in this indicator, e.g. care allowance, rent allowance and childcare allowance? These are formal expenses and they therefore count in the picture of government expenditure. However, 5 billion of healthcare payments feel like a different type of collective spending than development cooperation. How pure is the collective burden burden as an indicator of income support outside of income tax and how high would this collective burden be if we had designed supplements differently, for example as a tax deduction measure? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the money in the wallet, the housing is the most discussed point in society. The Spring paper pays little attention to this. With regard to the CDA, how can more homes be built, especially for start-ups and seniors? The construction plan is central to us. But we also see competition, especially between the starter and the private investor. The Telegraaf came today with the message that in recent years homes have been massively hijacked by private investors for starters. Are you sure there's nothing you can do about this? Mr. Chairman. If the Empire spends less money than it intended, it will continue to work in the budgets of municipalities. This is a logical consequence of how we regulated the relations between the Empire and the municipalities. Take joint responsibility in times of prosperity and adversity, stairs up, stairs down. However, I can imagine the annoyance of many aldermen. The city council has just agreed to your beautiful multi-annual budget, and then it turns out the Empire could have spent too little. As a result: sometimes up to €34 less per inhabitant and you can go back to the city council. The VNG is clear; it does not want to change this system, share this system of joint financial responsibility on the general benefit. However, because, for example, the budget of youth care and the Wmo is also included in the general benefit, the step-on-step scheme has an increasing impact on municipal finances. What is the Minister's view of more stabilisation by examining whether there are variations of the step-on-step system that do not take away the principle but which may lead to less fluctuations in the budgets for municipalities? Mr. Chairman. A good steward has his performance in order. Much cynicism of our residents is due to the performance of implementation organisations. The Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman call for more attention to be paid to this. Try extending your driving licence as a 75-year-old in this country or driving off as a youngster with a light form of autism. There is a dysfunctional CBR, not to mention the UWV. From the Tax Administration, the Court says that the desires for new policies cannot be met due to a shortage of IT staff. This affects democracy. But there is also the idiotism that as a tax return filler you need two different authorisation codes: one to be able to fill in a tax return and one to be able to apply for surcharges. On page 10 of the Spring Note, with regard to the performance of the implementation organisation, it is stated that a task force is engaged in problem analysis and scenarios for solution directions. They should be ready by 2020. Mr. Chairman. In part, we really can't wait that long. Can a first report with desirable measures, perhaps already with low-hanging fruit, be sent along with the 2020 Millions Note? With regard to its own ministry for the fiscal year 2020, can it not be ensured that volunteers from, for example, older organisations only have to work with one authorisation code for both the declaration and the application of fees for their members, elderly people or people with language disadvantages? The Minister describes the importance of strong buffers in government, because our economy is very sensitive to economic shocks. According to the Council of State, this also partly relates to the debt position of households and businesses. An important cause of the debt position of our residents is located in the mortgages. Households have a debt of 105% of GDP. The EU says that you should strive for a debt of up to 65% of GDP for households. In the Netherlands, the mortgage debt is the cause of 86% of that debt. But is this 20% non-hypothecary debt actually in line with debt in other EU countries? The previous cabinet has taken many measures to reduce mortgage debt. Are these measures likely to reduce 86% in the coming period? Mr. Chairman. The concept of steward has not only a financial dimension, but also a green dimension. During the debate on accountability, I indicated that I was particularly pleased that there was so much interest in the green bond. It offers the opportunity to involve financial markets in making our economy climate-proof. Climate change entails major financial risks. A report by EenVandaag recently showed that farmers in Zeeland suffer economic damage by salinisation of the soil. The Frankfurt School has developed a Finance fit for Paris benchmark. This benchmark has previously looked at the extent to which legislation and regulations for the financial sector are climate-proof in Germany and the European Union. Unlike for example in France, Dutch financial institutions report relatively little on the climate risks of their portfolio in their reporting. During a meeting of the Sustainable Finance Lab, DNB director Frank Elderson expressed a positive opinion on the application of such a benchmark to the Dutch financial sector. How does the Minister intend to have Dutch legislation for the financial sector assessed annually on a "Finance fit for Paris" benchmark? Mr. Chairman. I am well aware that today's questions and proposals will not suddenly make everyone rich and that the middle class, the hinge of our society, will not be free of all worries. For this to happen, more fundamental errors in the economic structure need to be changed. We can do this partly ourselves, but in part we also depend on cooperation with countries and institutions that sometimes have a different agenda. But that does not discharge us, within these narrow margins, from the task of finding majorities that make this particular group of people feel that politics is there for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u39	Thank you. Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u40	Compliments for your closing words. My interruption is directly in line with that, because it is about the middle class. The Prime Minister offered an opening to lower the tax on profits less than the government intends to support the 4 billion people's purchasing power. I have just asked the VVD and I do not have the impression that there is going to be any concrete proposal. But of course there may be parties in the coalition that say: I do like that, I want to go in that direction. What is the status of the CDA in this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u41	If there is an attempt to make sure that the middle class really takes advantage of that, the CDA will certainly not be a blockade for that. We will only receive such an attempt enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An old proverb is: when the fox preaches passion, peasant beware of your geese. I often have to think of this proverb in this cabinet, because for the time being you can really take poison that if the cabinet says that it is going to do something for the people, it is going to be left or right that the multinationals are going to improve on it. The neoliberal fairy tale which automatically means progress for multinationals means that society is also improving, seems alive and well in this cabinet, but I sincerely hope, perhaps against better knowledge, that with the Prime Minister's statement that wages are too low, another path has been taken by the VVD and that the cabinet under its leadership will follow. I would therefore see this debate, if I were the cabinet, as an opportunity to show that it is genuine in his claim to be there for the common Dutchman. To help the cabinet, I will make a number of proposals for this today. I had already done this in the Accountability debate, for example, about encouraging profit-sharing with the people in the workplace who make sure that that profit can be made at all. Unfortunately, however, the cabinet and the coalition continue to hold back these kinds of ideas. Why, I'll ask the cabinet. And does the Minister at all share the Prime Minister's concerns about wages and, if so, when will he start the much-needed additional steps to give people more purchasing power? Because the situation is crystal clear today. Wages remain behind while charges continue to rise. And I honestly don't understand what the cabinet is waiting for. I have a motion to move the cabinet to do more for this. I will go along with what the Prime Minister has said about this and I really hope that the VVD will at least take action today. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the progress report on the budget of this cabinet. So we are talking about a budget that the SP would initially have drawn up quite differently and for which we also presented alternatives together with the Labour Party and the GroenLinks Party. We saw and still see a more social and just Netherlands before us. For the same reason, we're still saving for worse times. Unfortunately, however, we are now dealing with the coalition budget. It's just there. So today I have a number of proposals that the cabinet could put forward this year on the basis of a budget that is there and which does not or hardly affect the trend of fiscal policy. First of all about the isolation and the improvement of social housing. One in six Dutch lives in a house with large defects, such as mold, rotten window frames, leaking roofs or damp walls. Among certain groups, that is even one in four. I have often seen it myself in my own district of Amsterdam Nieuw-West. It is incomprehensible in a rich country like the Netherlands. The Scheme Reduction Rental Tax Sustainability so called it is intended for, among other things, isolation of neglected social housing, but that was stopped last Monday, on 1 July, for the rest of the year because there is far too much demand for it. And logical, because there are a lot of houses that need improvement. That is why the SP is proposing to double the budget for this year by 78 million. That was 78 million and we want to double that budget, so that corporations will also receive a discount on the landlord's tax in the second half of 2019 if they invest in improving the social housing stock. This proposal would only cut a hundredth of the surplus envisaged, so we still save for worse times but do not allow children to sleep in the cold or in the fungus. In addition, better insulation ensures that people have more left in their wallets because they burn less, which is also good for the climate. The second proposal concerns youth care. In recent years, municipalities have been placed in an impossible position because they have been given far too little money from the past Cabinets and this Cabinet. Now there is finally more money, but the cabinet wants to transfer it to the municipalities without making sure that that money actually goes to youth care. We are therefore being asked to approve additional funds, but how should we, as a parliament, monitor their proper use? It even seems that on the other hand municipalities will get less because of the staircase-on-strap-off system. How does the Minister feel about this? 'Cause then we'll be even further away from home. Then you can imagine that the municipal councils are placed for such a choice: youth care or libraries, or playgrounds. The SP is therefore in favour of a specific allowance for youth care so that we as a parliament can be sure that these much-needed additional resources actually go to youth care. Then a proposal to ensure that everyone can maintain access to justice regardless of the thickness of your wallet. Last year, around 46 million were earmarked for subsidised legal aid. The SP believes that this money should be spent in 2019 on what it is intended for, namely a fair remuneration for social lawyers. For coverage, the Minister can use the expected under-exhaustment that was already in JenV's budget for this year. What I find bizarre, by the way, is that you are putting an underexhaustment in the budget. Finally, the SP proposes to release 10 million extra for parents with sick children. This can then be paid with a small proportion of the under-exhaustment of the wage cost advantage, the estimate of which has been revised downwards by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment by 130 million. So we only want to use 10 million of that. Mr. Chairman. As I said, if I were the cabinet, I would see this debate as an opportunity to show whether it is genuine. There have been great words used by the leader of the cabinet, the leader of this country. The money to improve people's lives is just there. So expectations have been raised. Everyone is waiting for government action to improve purchasing power, but also to invest in our common future. I started my speech with a proverb about the fox. I'll finish with that, too. I sincerely hope that this fox, called Rutte III, can not only lose its hair but also its tricks and that people will finally make real progress this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u44	Thank you. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u45	Who is looking at the Netherlands today, quickly wonders: where is it better than here and when was it ever better than now? But not everyone has the same chances. And the freedom to seize opportunities, we always have to actively maintain and fight over and over again. For policies that hinder and stress, we must look for solutions with support without taboos. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has taken important steps, some people would even say "historical" steps: a pension agreement that will increase young and old's chances of a good, fair and transparent pension and a climate agreement that will bring us to Paris, drive innovation and give future generations the same opportunities. But like journalists, social liberals do not dwell for long on yesterday's successes. We are convinced that further progress is possible and necessary for tomorrow. In the case of structural reforms, we often know that political action is needed. We have known this for a long time, but we lack the courage to break taboos. Before the crisis, I mentioned it in the Accountability debate, that was the mortgage interest deduction, the AOW age and the right of dismissal. The need for change was long denied, while the problems accumulated and time to act passed. It's like driving a car down a wall. The driver who sees the wall in good time can still look around him and adjust to the left or right. Those who wait too long can only turn the wheel in blind panic. So let's not wait until the next crisis comes and our international agreements force us, or until the next trial comes and our laws force us. Let us not wait until the next formation arrives and our coalition partners force us. But let us take the lead and try to get that debate past new taboos. That is why I am looking forward to the elaboration of my motion in which ministries without political direction look ahead to reforms, austerity and, indeed, investment, so that politicians can have an open debate on this afterwards. I ask the Minister to explain how the implementation is on that point. Mr. Chairman. We need these results, because we know that the Dutch economy has a number of structural weaknesses. This is how I can continue to describe these weaknesses in report after report, but we are only doing a little bit about it. We know that our economy is too sensitive to the state of the economy. It inhibits progress, while the bill of ups and downs does not equal. It increases the differences between people who can take care of themselves and those who need government support. We know that our high private debts are part of this. And we know that our assets on the other side of the balance sheet are stuck in homes and pensions, so they hardly weigh in when that next crisis comes. The cabinet has certainly taken steps forward on this issue, including the pension agreement and the limitation of mortgage interest relief. But the question is, is it enough? I read in the newspaper that the cabinet is actively considering new ambitions for the second half of the cabinet period. That sounds wise. I would like to hear from the Minister whether these weaknesses also play a role in this. We also know that we have an excessive current account surplus, partly because of our wages. This cabinet took place at the start to ensure that people would notice the recovery. The hundreds of thousands of people who have found work since then have certainly noticed that. But wide in this Chamber and beyond, there is discontent about the limited growth of disposable income. The foremen of the VVD and VNO of course both have a point there. Unfortunately, their argument over people's heads is of no use to anyone. My question to the Minister of Finance is: what is the cabinet going to do to make sure that more people notice the recovery? How does the cabinet intend to reduce the gap in the labour market and strengthen workers when negotiating wages? On this point, too, the government took a step forward with the Labour Market Act in balance. But I think the Borstlap Committee is right to ask: are differences between people increased if your contract type determines how much social security you can count on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u46	I think that Mr Sneller's question to the cabinet is quite justified, but I would also like to ask D66 these questions. What are you going to do, now that the opening is needed to reduce the tax on profits and to spend those resources on purchasing power, in order to achieve that? The D66 Secretary of State Snel immediately shut the door. I was very surprised and a bit dissatisfied with that. But I hope to get initiatives for this from D66 in the Chamber, and I expect that too. Because the VVD always wanted this so badly and now puts the ball on the spot. I'd say shoot him in and get some!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u47	This seems to me to be a very fair question, which I would also like to put to the Minister of Finance. How are the words converted into deeds? That's what it's all about. I think that was about the change you had with Mr Slootweg, and I wholeheartedly agree with that. At the same time, how will the government set a good example with its own wages and collective agreements in the public sector? How does the cabinet intend to reduce the collective burdens that we know are relatively high? We also know that these rising burdens are caused by rising healthcare costs. Each Dutch citizen now pays on average more than €5,500 in healthcare each year. Doctors can do more and more and we're getting older. But it is also because care is the only sector that can grow automatically every year. This is partly justified, but partly also by assumptions from the models and the basic path, which make politics more powerless than necessary. I do not think that more transparency here can hurt to make politics more aware of the steering wheel that it can take over. I heard in a podcast last week that politics always listens well to the Budget Space Study Group, so I also hope that they are listening with us right now when I ask them to look at that automatic increase in the medium-term care estimate. I am also looking forward to the WRR report, in order to bring this issue more concretely into the political debate. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on the timing of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u48	I have a question about that. How does Mr Snelter explain that almost always the estimates are higher than the facts? In recent years, we have always seen that CPB care was seen as the most frightening riser of costs, as if it weren't about people. As if the private sector should actually grow in comparison. I think it's morally inadequate if you think a cup of coffee is great in the hospitality industry, but it's bad for the state finances if that cup of coffee is provided in the care facility. The fact is that there are gaps not on the actual expenditure side, but on the estimates side. The estimates estimate the costs more seriously than they actually are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u49	We are in complete agreement, and that is precisely my point. This medium-term estimate is always showing an excessive increase. In the assumptions that make that increase, there are also a number of things that we can influence as politically, but the Central Planning Bureau actually says: because of the system and the open standard, as it has now been put into shape, we simply assume that it is rising very much. In that case, it is always not so bad, when I think it would be better to show us a little more of the choices that have been made here and from which this growth has been built, so that we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u50	I will come back to that myself in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u51	I'm going to listen to that with interest. I would like to hear from the Minister when he expects this WRR report on exactly this subject to come to the Chamber so that we can discuss it. Mr. Chairman. Another point, which has already been mentioned, is that rising healthcare costs reduce investment in new economic growth, while we know that we are already investing too little in research and innovation and that we need to accelerate productivity growth. Or as a finance minister once said, "We invest little in the economy of the future. Artificial intelligence, big data, nanotechnology, biotech: we're barely participating." And indeed, he's sitting there. Moreover, the CPB says about education and research that it is a pure cost; it does not produce anything about economic growth. The CPB says that when we and they know that's not true. I keep wondering: why these perverse stimuli? Mr. Chairman. The same CPB shows that the economy is slowing down. From a high peak we look slowly on our way to a valley. The question is, of course, is this law-making in stone chiseled? In the bad years we knew the so-called double dip, but is there anything like a double high besides the weed experiment? That is the question that comes to mind. At least we know that saving alone isn't gonna bring us that. And just like last year, I ask the Minister: why is another high percentage filled in in the in=terminal? I ask that with last year's high underexhaustment still fresh in memory. More and more, the luxury demand, which has recently been unimaginable, arises with regard to public debt: how low is enough? I referred this question to the Minister and I accept that the same study group will give its opinion on it. Another discussion that seems technical, but may have major consequences, is the budgetary objective that we as a country agree with the European Commission, that so-called medium-term objective, the MTO. It has been at -0.5% for years and the cabinet is proposing that it be re-established. My question to the Minister is: why are we pinning ourselves back on that and what debt, for example, had he chosen minus -1%? Mr President, I will conclude. I have already said that social liberals are convinced that progress is possible and that today's successes are not given, but an assignment to continue fighting for a future in which we can share freedom with even more people. That is also what I expect of this cabinet by setting up modernisations in good time, but above all by ensuring that we do not give the steering wheel too long but use it in good time, as it should in a healthy democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u52	Thank you. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People over multinationals, that is actually the motto by which the opposition said to the cabinet broadly: "Where are the problems in society? The public sector is under pressure. People's purchasing power is left behind. Pay more attention to that, cabinet. The problem is not with companies that make too little profit, that pay too much tax and that are cut back. These are not the big problems of the present day, not of the Dutch economy, nor of the world." We have prepared a counter-budget for this, together with the SP and GroenLinks. There have been many debates, for example on dividend taxation, but the main choice of the cabinet remained the same. The government's largest tax expenditure, 4 billion, continues to go to business: a reduction in the tax on profits, while profits are sky high and purchasing power is under pressure. People received a VAT increase and a higher energy tax this year. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the coalition, and in particular the Prime Minister, is beginning to realize that these are not the right choices. I welcome that and the PvdA would like to cash that in. I have therefore tabled an amendment to lay down in the law the words of the Prime Minister, the linking of collective agreements with multinationals and the reduction in the tax on profits, which will take effect on 1 January next year. Otherwise, they already have it inside. I always try to appreciate and take the Prime Minister's words seriously, including as a Member of Parliament. But I see this Prime Minister of the VVD house as a reduction that has been made once, not then reversed. It must be done before 1 January. Those are the consequences of his own words. Adel is obliged, so I am also curious to see what proposals the Minister of Finance intends to make. At least I heard broad support in the coalition. Except for the VVD, quite frankly, it seems to be pulling its hands off again today. But D66 and CDA were just downright positive about it and the Christian Union is still coming, but I know how they feel about it. They're also in favour of it. So I'd say cabinet, get to work! Make proposals for this; you will receive the warm support of the PvdA Group and I think of the people. Mr. Chairman. My second point is the substantive choices in the Spring paper. I welcome the fact that at least the expenditure framework is closed again, that the 1.5 billion under-utilised has been filled with other measures. The setbacks have of course been met, but additional investments have also been announced in various areas, for example in education, beta and technology. Good case, unlike last fall, when it just went into the state debt. But I do have a question about the substantive choices. For example, 461 million, rising in 2024, is earmarked for defence and only 41 million for education. I find this relationship crooked, especially since the Defense Department has enormous problems in getting the money already allocated at all. At the moment there are still schools that are only open for four days. At the moment, the primary school teachers are still on strike to get the reward they deserve. So what's with the choice and the relationship? Couldn't there have been more education? Couldn't have lived there either? I thought Mr Alkaya spoke very well about the quality of housing, but it is wider. There is a shortage of housing in the Netherlands, but no matter what budget I take, no extra money will be made available for the construction of affordable homes, which is very much needed! The landlord's tax is bouncing against the plinths, there is more and more coming in, but the cabinet doesn't want anything to achieve affordable housing. Isn't that a priority? That's one of the biggest problems of the moment. Why didn't the cabinet choose that? Mr. Chairman. I come to the third theme: the problems in the municipalities. It is not so much that we find these municipalities so pathetic, but of course the municipalities do useful things, such as youth care, for which the cabinet rightly pays extra money. But you will hear from different sides, I think we all hear that from our aldermen, who are active in different parties, and from our city council members, who are either in the opposition or in the coalition, that they have a huge problem in this year's budget. This is because the cabinet did not spend more than 5 billion, which it intended to spend. I have been very critical of this in the debate on responsibility. I mentioned the Minister at the time the Colin of the 21st century: stealing, sitting on your money, paying off sovereign debt as the sole priority of this moment. Unwise. But the municipalities are now in danger of being the victim of this. I am not in favour of moving away from the step-on-step system, because that is a good principle. But you could say: this under-utilisation, this 5.2 billion, is so unique, it has never happened before; the problems in the municipalities are so great, for example on youth care but also in the facilities, the viability in villages, the viability in cities; for those specific purposes we draw some extra money, we have it and we do. Why wasn't that chosen? Now you see all these municipalities making inventories, and the first lectures have already fallen: what are we supposed to cut back on? They do not do so because they want to, but they do so because the Empire, this finance minister, did not do what he agreed in the budget last year. Is it right, then, that swimming pools or libraries should be closed or other painful choices made, that children should not be given the care they need, because the budgetary arrangements have not been complied with here? I would like to put that question to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In short, as a PvdA we had really made different choices; that is well known. That is what we are talking about in the budget: much more investment in the public sector, in education and care, in people's pay. It is a good thing that at least 1.5 billion has been used within the budget as opposed to last year. But I do have questions about the substantive choices in there. I look forward to the answers of the cabinet. I am particularly looking forward to tomorrow when the votes are on the amendment which converted the Prime Minister's words into political actions. Otherwise, it turns out to be an empty shell casing. That's not true, is it, Mr. Chairman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u54	Thank you. Mr Bruins, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u55	Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the Autumn note, I was also here and I was interrupted by my highly valued colleagues from the PvdA and GroenLinks, in particular about the energy bill. I have to say, that was right. At that time, I could not say much more than that in the framework of the Climate Agreement our commitment was to reverse the unfortunate reduction of the discount and preferably more than that. I am really pleased today that we can now have the debate on the Spring Note with and definitely more discount on the energy bill and a shift in the storage of renewable energy towards companies and a heat fund from which home owners can also invest without savings in making their home more sustainable. I hope that my esteemed colleagues will now appreciate these wonderful developments together with me. It is good to reflect together on "June month of agreements" and to look forward to what is needed. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of beauty in the spring note. Large amounts, but big things are also done with small amounts. Take the approach of anti-Semitism in our country, the approach of jihadism, of drug dumping, the extra money for getting out of prostitution, 41 million extra for science and technology education, and of course the 40 million for the lock at Kornwerderzand. Mr. Chairman. After years of scarcity, the coalition agreement finally offered a new perspective for municipalities. They would greatly improve so that they could properly carry out their extensive tasks. The previous cabinet had intervened hard and now it would be different. The practice, however, has proved to be unwieldy. Mr Nijboer pointed that out. Since 2015 with the Wmo and youth care a number of open-ended schemes have been thrown over the fence and they are almost without exception lacking. It is a good thing that this cabinet came up with large sums of money in the Spring paper. At the same time, we know that for many municipalities these amounts solve barely half of the problem, while for other municipalities this is different. This step-on-step afsystematiek, which in the coalition agreement seemed so good for the municipalities, is in practice a turnoff for them at the moment. Mr Nijboer also pointed out this. What is the Minister's view of this problem? What can he offer congregations and the Chamber? In the run-up to the August decision-making process, is the cabinet prepared to take a round along the municipalities in order to get up to speed on their budget preparation? Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, the Commission's regulation of work came up with its first pen fruit title in what kind of country do we want to live in? This question is one of the most pressing questions of our time, because the labour market is making it more flexible. It is not the case that we stand by and look at it purely. I am thinking of the Labour Market Act in balance, compulsory disability insurance and minimum rates forzzp'ers. But it's gonna take more, and fast. For one in five workers work in temporary employment and one in eight workers work inzzp'er. It takes about ten more years, and only half of the workers have a fixed contract. And that is not a natural phenomenon, but the result of too large differences between these groups. It is a gap, creating an unprecedented flexibilisation almost unnoticed. Young people are the main victims of this. It is precisely the Minister of Finance who should be concerned about this. Why? Well, this minister "threatens" to become the prime minister with purely budgetary surpluses due to years of economic growth and prudent fiscal policies. And while the cabinet is investing again in crucial public tasks that have been over-involved in the years to come, we find daily that it is not easy to bring the service back to an acceptable level. Whether it's the Tax Administration, the Food and War Authority, the UWV: the financial attacks have taken their toll and you don't just make up for that in one cabinet period. This alone is a reason why, in the next recession, automatic stabilisers should do their job so that public interests, good service and so on are not compromised. But one of the questions that comes out behind the Borstlap committee is whether the automatic stabilisers will be stable enough in future in times of recession. Will they still be stable enough? And has not continued flexibilisation in the labour market triggered a process whereby, in the next recession, massively flexible workers will be dumped, or forced to work at lower wages, andzzp'ers will be allowed to bite? Does this minister have sufficient control over the impact of this flexibilisation trend on public finances? Because the figures for economy and society have been wonderful on the outside for a number of years since we crawled out of the deep valley after the crisis, but let's not forget that we skated on thin ice all this time. Let us therefore work after the pension agreement and the Climate Agreement to close one of the biggest gaps of our time, a real social issue, with a labour market agreement. For although work is not everything, work is valuable and contributes to meaning and dignity for many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u56	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u57	Mr. Chairman. I'm on the Trade Committee, too. There I also listened with surprise to the VVD. In addition to that wage story, the VVD had the thesis that the Netherlands had to earn even more of its money abroad and that therefore wages should not increase too much, because Dutch products would then become too expensive on the international market. Does the Christian Union agree with me that that is a bizarre story? The volatility of our economy is linked to the fact that we are too dependent on foreign economies and what is happening abroad. Does the Christian Union agree with me that raising wages in such an agreement will cut the knife both ways? Because at the same time we realize an economy that is more focused on consumption here in the Netherlands, and less on consumption somewhere else in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u58	The Netherlands is a small country. So we have a lot of overseas. And in the end, we have to make our money making smart products: low volume, high complexity, so high tech. That means we have to innovate, which means we have to train smart people and we have to put a lot of money into education, into professionals. That's where we build smart products that we can export. And yes, we export a lot. The Netherlands is a very large exporter. Then you must also have reasonable wages, but eventually wages can rise if we innovate, if we dare to invest in science, in education and in innovation. If we do that, then wages will also be able to rise without having a negative effect on our export quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u59	Thank you. I call Mr Van Otterloo of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the first Spring note I can deal with, so I will also deal with some general themes instead of reviewing all the posts. Not that I leave that to my fellow Members alone, but I think a number of things have already been said about it which I agree with. The main point is that 50PLUS has a more fundamental approach. We can see that in particular social security and the Budgetary Framework Care expenditure is not so bad, but at the same time we can see that this is the result of disappointing wage developments. We see as the underlying problem that solidarity funding in society is under pressure. It has already been pointed out, such as "if wages do not rise well enough, we will withdraw the tax reduction'. Our counter-budget didn't have it, so it's never a problem for us to apply it. But if there is a fittie between Hans de Boer and Mark Rutte, I have to say that Hans de Boer calls too easily about increasing the burden. The employers, the business community in particular, have systematically excluded themselves from their contribution to the financing of society over the past ten or fifteen years. In particular, through the frequent use ofzzp'ers and other hirers, contributions are lagging behind overall development. This means, for example, that the costs of care are increasingly borne by citizens and that taxes need to be increased in order to get the whole thing together. We are therefore very concerned about this. That was also the reason why we did not reduce the tax on profits. Nor have we noticed that in recent years the German car industry has established itself massively here, regardless of whether it was in Limburg, Brabant or other regions because we had a profit tax of 2 percentage points lower than in Germany. So we are not so afraid of all kinds of road leaks and problems with the locational climate, because many other things play a role in this. What we as 50PLUS are concerned about is the lack of solidarity in the society of the whole. That comes with sticking to the budgetary policy that was established more than 30 years ago, as I indicated this morning in the debate on the Ecofin. I reminded you of the Bertnorm this morning. Bert de Vries, then chairman of the CDA, introduced that the public debt should not exceed 60%. Since then, a lot has changed in the world, and in the financial world, but apparently that standard is still untouchable. I have Bert de Vries quite high as an economist, but his predictive gift about this moment is no longer helpful in finding a good solution. We have all had a letter on care, which I have also said to Mr Sneller, from a number of more social health insurers. This letter contains a number of examples of ways of dealing with costs and reducing the cost to citizens. But at the same time this is a bridge to the AOW. We also have a CBS and a CPB that systematically overestimates the spending on care and social affairs. In CBS, if I may say so now, the hysteria of the AOW increase decided that the Dutch mortality rates were too gloomy and that we had to look more at what it was like abroad. The Netherlands still has the second highest cancer mortality rate. It can't solve the CPB in its entirety. If you calculate the future costs for the AOW, you will also have to take into account real figures and not squeezed figures. The same applies to the cost of care. This means that you must have real figures of the cost increases in the coming years and not the 12.6 billion mentioned in the election campaign. We are very concerned about the recruitment of staff in the public service. That includes the story of late wages. Wages are too low and there must be competition. You can never win it if it goes this way. We want purchasing power to be increased, but not only for workers but also for pensioners. This cabinet has not yet given any insight into this new pension agreement. Because even if the coverage next year would be 5% higher, people will have to wait ten years before that 5% of next year in the coverage rate is felt in the wallet as well. With the current mortality rates, it will be too late for many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u61	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Finally, Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u62	Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, as a politician, you always look at society with some compassion. But this afternoon I also looked with a little compassion at the minister who is in this business, because I looked at the field of official support. I know this minister is economical and expert, but most of the afternoon that business was completely empty. I thought, "Is he really doing it all by himself?" I'm sure that won't be the case. Luckily, he still looks cheerful. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few weeks, we've been looking at this minister in the debate on responsibility. Since that debate on responsibility, things have happened and new figures have emerged. That's what I wanted to talk to you about this afternoon. There are a number of figures which do not reassure me at all, I have to say honestly. I'm gonna drop the door in the house. The first figure is the growth of the economy. During the Accountability debate, we were talking about an economic growth of 2.7% in 2018. But in 2019 the expected growth has already been adjusted to 1.7%. That seems to be a significant reduction for this year. Also on purchasing power figures came out which are not entirely satisfactory for the SGP. During the debate on accountability, we have therefore called for all groups of society to take advantage of the economic growth that Mr Van Otterloo has just brought to the surface of a specific group. I'd like to repeat that call here. For pensioners, too, must benefit from this and, as far as we are concerned, the SME entrepreneurs, the police, the single-earners. And let's certainly not forget the single people in our society. These groups should also benefit from economic growth. The SGP hopes that sufficient attention will be paid to this in the upcoming Tax Plan that we are going to deal with after the summer recess. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about purchasing power figures. Recently, those figures have been brought out again by the CPB. At the 2019 Millions note we got a beautiful picture in which everyone was keenly pleased. Fortunately, we have to note that purchasing power is still increasing, but much less than was expected at the time. If you look at that picture, I find it most painful that the single-earners, together with pensioners, are once again the most backward compared to the image of the 2019 Millions Note. I have to note that the marginal pressure for this group, the earners' group, is particularly high. In some cases, it may even reach 167%. You just turn in when you make more money. The SGP hopes and also expects real action to be taken in the forthcoming Tax Plan. Because according to the cabinet, work has to pay, but in some situations it does not pay to work more. If you're gonna have to turn in more than you're gonna get, it's gonna be a real pain in the ass. So I would like to point out once again that we look very much at the research marginal pressure, which we can expect as it is now, shortly after the recess. Mr President, I have one more point that I would like to take up, and that is Defence. First of all, I would like to congratulate you, because the SGP is pleased to see more money added. In the coming years, around 1.5 billion additional investments will be made in the Defense Department. That is and remains a good and necessary development. But you know what the position of the SGP is: more needs to be done. Fortunately, that is not only the position of the SGP, but also of this cabinet. The Prime Minister has also appointed, in the course of the debate on the question of accountability, that it is the cabinet's commitment to achieving that objective of 2%. In response to the spring note, I read the following from the Ministry of Defense. The money released by the Spring Paper is not enough to invest in all priorities. There are choices to be made, and that is what will happen in the coming months. So I read that priorities have been set, but that priorities still need to be put in place. In my view, this indicates that an additional investment is really necessary. I should like to make a specific point today: ammunition and equipment, very specific matters. Two years ago, the newspapers were full of articles about large ammunition shortages. Fortunately, last week we were able to read that something has really improved since then. At the same time, however, we are picking up signs from the field that there are still a number of real challenges in this respect. I'd like to hear from the Minister about the situation. It's not just about that particular point. Can the Minister give us a broader picture of the supplies at the Department of Defense? What is the situation, for example, with regard to supplies of clothing and other equipment? Is there now sufficient material available in width to send our people really good and well equipped on exercise? I would like to leave it at that, Mr President, because I am right on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u63	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending until 4:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u64	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u65	Mr President, thank you. I was a little confused because I didn't think everyone was there yet, but now I feel entitled to start. We are talking today about the Spring Note. Let me begin by thanking Members for all the questions and comments on the full breadth of the financial, but also on the political spectrum. The Spring Note is, as members well know, the first government progress report for 2019 and thus provides an interim overview of the current financial year. The larger debate on the budget for 2020, on which a lot of comments have been made in fact, we are going to have to and after Princess Day, including during the financial considerations. I want to do it quite staccato, also given the time I'm supposed to be given. I've looked at the planning with some nervousness. I want to do it in different blocks: 1. economy, 2. expenditure, 3. charges, 4. purchasing power, 5. companies, 6. housing market, relatively short, 7. others and then the amendments tabled in the first term. So I start with the economy and the economic picture. Some, Mr Van Dijk among others, but also Mr Stoffer as the last speaker, quite rightly pointed out that the economy was growing by 2.7% last year, but that we have now substantially revised that growth. This shows exactly what we know about each other and what I sometimes try to bring to our attention, namely how volatile the Dutch economy is, with all kinds of repercussions for our financial and economic policy. If the world economy is doing well, the Dutch economy is often doing very well, but the opposite is also true. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I will not elaborate on anything that might be tossed in the future. Mrs De Vries was quite right to ask what the explanation was. We need to look for the explanation in particular in world trade growth, in the tensions to date about the actual outbreak of a trade war and also in moderate consumption growth. If I am very honest, many of these risks are at the global level, which we naturally have very little influence on. They are mainly risks with potentially a significant negative impact on the near future, unfortunately. Furthermore, many comments have been made on the economic picture, but these were, as far as I am concerned, the questions in the economy block. I'll continue with the expenses. As is well known, this spring's budgetary space is mainly due to the windfalls and estimates. We spent that money almost entirely again. I would like to thank Mr Nijboer for his compliments on the closure of the expenditure frameworks. I interpreted its purpose, if I may say it domestically, in such a way that he was okay with the Minister making the money and spending it. I will not repeat the whole list, but many in the Chamber have indicated the parts where the money went, their specific claims, of very small but still very important, which Mr Bruins was talking about, to amounts in the many tens of millions or even hundreds of millions. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked about the choices. He himself would have liked more in the field of education and housing. He also pointed specifically at Defense. I understand that question very well from his political point of view. As always in politics, it is about making choices in scarcity. We've really tried to look into what's realistic in the short term in the D.O.D. So it's quite a considerable amount, also structural, but the walk-up starts very carefully this year. In doing so, we are trying to take into account, of course, the theme which the Chamber and I often have: under-utilization in the defence sector. So it starts with a very small amount of money and then it gets very big. In addition, of course, we wanted to add a great deal to youth care, from this year and next year, precisely because of the municipal problems that many have rightly raised. That is, of course, a very different category in terms of amounts. This means that the money that we have left in care on the one hand is also spent on care for a very large part. Mr Stoffer referred to the great importance of the defence industry. I agree with him. By the way, that is exactly why we have looked into whether, in that whole balance sheet, there was any extra money left to go to the Defense Department, with that note that we did want to look at what is a realistic development that Defence can actually deliver. Mrs De Vries rightly asked about the targets. We have also often exchanged views on this subject. During the spring negotiations, I wanted to see how we could solve this as much as possible in the discussions with colleagues. I think Mrs De Vries was able to read the first results in the spring note: the targets at OCW, EZK, IenW and Foreign Affairs. They are provided with structural cover. The targets of JenV and VWS were agreed in the spring decision-making that they should be covered structurally. We will come back to that shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u66	Mr Nijboer has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u67	The task of education is indeed covered, but a new one has been added. That is the interest on student loans, which was killed in the First Chamber. It would be worth the PvdA a sweet thing if it did not have to be covered within the Education budget. This will no longer be included in the Spring Paper. Can the Minister assure us that we do not see a reduction in education elsewhere in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u68	I understand Mr Nijboer's question very well. This is exactly one of the things that took place after the spring negotiations and after the Spring note has been sent to the Chamber. As the Minister for Education has already promised to the Chamber, we will involve this in the August decision-making process. That seems prudent and logical at the moment. Mr Alkaya asked how the rightful use of the extra funds for youth aid could be followed. The cabinet considers this form of benefit to be best suited to municipal autonomy. Maybe there's no discussion about that at all. We have made agreements with the VNG to make the youth aid system more effective and efficient, and to make it work better. We wanted to make arrangements with the UNG for the period after this cabinet period. Why is that reasonable? I think we all see that at least part of the municipalities have a problem in the short term. Mr Nijboer rightly said: of course, you all speak people from the city. In order to do justice to the image, I should like to say that I have also spoken to a number of municipalities that said that there is actually no problem with them. I think it is precisely for this reason that it is so important that we look in all objectivity at what is going on in the municipalities. Some municipalities seem to have no problem. Others have a bit of a problem. Others have a big problem. I think we need to look at what is effective and how we can ensure that children whom you would like them to claim youth assistance are also helped. At the same time, we need to ensure that there is no sucking effect or that we are going to help those who may not benefit primarily from it at all. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked why the defaulter in the Long-Term Care Act was not previously known to the Spring Note, and whether even higher exceedances are expected. Here's the thing. The Dutch Healthcare Authority advises the Ministry of VWS twice a year. That advice was issued on 29 May 2019. So I understand very well that the VWS Minister could not take this into account in the talks with Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u69	It is clear that there should be an opinion, but it is very undesirable that this is constantly following the spring note. So the question is whether you can't change the system, so that the advice comes a little sooner and it can go along with the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u70	I understand the inspiration behind that question. Can I agree with Mrs De Vries that I am taking this up with the US ministers? I would also like to mention the following. I don't know exactly what the logic behind this report is. If this were possible, it would not be in the very short term. Otherwise, you're gonna report pretty quickly, or not for too long. Let me put the question to the VWS ministers in order to look at this, also in the light of the most effective debate with the Chamber on the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u71	Thank you for that commitment, together with the remark that the aim should be to ensure that this is as consistent as possible with the budgetary cycle of the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u72	That's what I thought I understood. That is exactly why we want to present this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the investment in youth care and why it was presented as 1 billion. I think I have just tried to answer the question of whether the problem in youth care is temporary or structural. That's what the investigation has to prove. That is why the cabinet has decided to meet the municipalities with a series of 420 this year and then two times 300. I think that's probably where the confusion comes from. I think we can both hold on to what we mean about that investment. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs De Vries asked how the defense will use the extra resources and when there is more clarity. Defence has set out priority capacity objectives in the NATO National Plan. That's just a fixed list that included the F35s, but also the special forces and cyber. We have explicitly agreed that part of the additional resources will be invested in staff. In my view, Mrs De Vries herself referred to the fact that there was or seems to be very recent white smoke............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That sounds like excellent news. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks also had a question about Defense, but the inspiration was, I think, just another one. It's also in the party's DNA, I think, to look at it differently. The question was about understanding quality: how do we make careful policy? Then I'm actually back to the phaser answer. The cabinet does believe that more needs to be done in the field of defence, also taking into account the insecurity in the world and the idea of taking responsibility for itself, including towards our NATO partners. But I understand very well that Mr Snels and others say: but the money was already not coming up. That is precisely the reason for looking very closely with the Defense Department at what is a rise that is reasonable and probably can also be observed. Mr. Chairman. Both Mr Snels and Mr Slootweg asked if I would agree to look again at the standardisation system and the indexation of the Municipal Fund, the whole step-on-step discussion. I have to say quite frankly that I am a little bit confused with that, because it was precisely the VNG who also indicated to us in the recent discussions on youth care that he wanted to stick to the step-on-step approach. I understand the inconvenience in itself. I think Mr Nijboer has explained more broadly what many of us, at least sometimes, hear when we are in contact with fellow party members or others who are active locally. But the VNG sees benefits and I understand them. On the one hand, you can say that it is strange that the municipality gets something out of it when national politics decides to invest extra in, for example, defence or education, or vice versa, and that it should be at the expense of the local swimming pool if national politics decides to cut back. But in a world of imperfections, this is still a solution that may be the least bad. I am prepared to think about everything in my own right, but from the VNG's point of view that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u73	I understand the Minister's dilemma, because that is also my dilemma. I would not want anything to be removed from the foundation of stair-to-strap-off. In my view, the integration of youth care and the WMO has increased the overall benefit and its impact. In addition, I think you might want to think about whether you should do it 100%. Of course, there must be agreement with the UNG on this. I wonder if there is some room for the Minister of Finance. Finally, it has an effect, including in the interlinkage between local and regional authorities in the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u74	Yeah, and that's really gonna be a bit of a puzzle. Again, we all see the problem. At the same time, of course, a great deal of money has been added, including in the spending of the Empire. This also means that municipalities have received a lot of money through the Municipal and Provincial Funds. Moreover, we often talk about under-utilisation here, but compared to the total, this is only a small part. We are going to check again in the period November-December if there is a problem. I think Mr Sneller put me up to that at the time. Municipalities did not lead the way: there is actually a very big problem and that is because of this system. So perhaps I can agree with Mr Slootweg and the Chamber that we should keep this item on the agenda. We are also going to look very seriously at child care. I am going to say more about the Committee on Budgetary Room in a moment, namely that it is not so neat to provide them with assignments. But I can of course ensure that they listen carefully to what is being said in this debate and I could suggest them to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u75	That leads to a question from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u76	The Minister has agreed to interrupt Mr Slootweg to keep this under review. I specifically asked the Minister before the August decision-making process if he could take another round around the municipalities to see what the temperature of the water is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u77	In itself that seems to be a very charming thought, but apart from the fact that it is almost August, that the August decision-making is mainly about 2020 and that we are usually not doing very large-scale work on the spending side, the suggestion of making a round with the question "you would have liked to have some money with it" is the kind of round I would have no illusion about if I did that in the cabinet. So I think we should do it nicely. And "doing the right thing" means, for example, in the case of youth care: we are really going to objectively see to what extent there is a problem, where that problem comes through and how we can solve it. If money is then part of the solution, then money must also be part of the solution. I think that's reasonable and fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u78	The Minister is indeed not known for that type of rounds; I admit that. He could ask the municipalities, at any time, whether, while maintaining the step-on-step system, they would like to see this system based on the budget rather than on the implementation. What you then commit yourself to as a Empire is that you cannot cut down on municipalities, funds and provinces during the year. So you put yourself less stuck, but it's also a step-on-step systematic in the pure sense of the word. Could the Minister investigate something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u79	Yes, but my hesitation lies with the following. I did not have the conversations with the VNG myself, but my impression was that I was careful to say that one did not expect the best of that type of intervention, which I could have imagined in the youth care debate. So to make people happy against their will with something that we think is perfectly reasonable here may not be wise either. But let me promise Mr Bruins that I will keep this on the agenda for myself, but also together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because this is also something she speaks much more about. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg and, in my opinion, others, including Mrs De Vries, rightly made comments on infrastructure. It does not seem logical to me to include the disadvantaged maintenance as a debt in the annual accounts, because the Ministry has means on the balance sheet to allow this type of maintenance to take place at a later date. It is programmed, also for later years. But recently, the Minister of IenW has of course said a few things about this, so it is a conversation that deserves our attention: how do we ensure that we do both short-term investments, which we all may be eagerly looking forward to, and that we also do not get into the situation that we instantly have not maintained a lot of roads and bridges and other things. So I'm gonna admit that I'm still recording with her how we keep that sufficiently sharp on the retina. In addition, I have the impression that she is doing a very good job. Mr Bruins asked me about the flexibility of the labour market. This question was undoubtedly inspired by, let me say, Mr Borstlap's interim judgment. Let me suppress the tendency to give a positive response to this, not only because it is primarily up to Mr Koolmees, but also because the egg has not yet been definitively laid there. I think that's nice. But in general, Mr Bruins is of course right that flexibility in the Dutch labour market has increased very much and has grown more rapidly than, I believe, in almost any other European country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u80	Mr Bruins has a question about the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u81	I was just waiting for a few sentences. I thought, "I'm sure there's gonna be something nice from the Minister." But it didn't. This is where it stopped. I think that's a little skinny. I think it's a big and important subject. The Minister recognizes that, too. However, I would like it if the Study Group on Budgets were to take this subject under its wing and take it into account in future activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u82	It could just be a long afternoon listening for the study group. This too, with a sense of proportion, I will bring to the attention of the House where necessary. Mr President, perhaps I can say this about it after all. At all events, there is no doubt that politics will also be wondering what the implications of this report will be once it is there. But I realize that's a very wild thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u83	Very nice. Perhaps the Minister can already formulate a few reflective thoughts in the Millions note, if he writes about it during the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u84	If I also say in this question that I am going to give the answer in the Millions note, I am going to do that a few more times, by the way. Let's take it one step at a time. First the report, then Minister Koolmees and then all of us. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller rightly asked about structural weaknesses. I'm talking about spending now, but I'm just going to deal with the broader palette of his questions. He had a few things to do with structural weaknesses. He also kindly put my own words in my mouth. Mr. Chairman. First of all, on his motion. I'm just gonna get it out of my head. I think there will be progress in the cabinet on Friday. At least we will come back to that. Otherwise, it will be soon after the summer, by the way, without me suggesting that the work will be finished. In fact, if it is not the beginning of the beginning, then it is at most the end of the beginning. His second comment was about innovation. I have also heard Mrs De Vries and others say something about this. I think those are justified comments. It's quite a long list of things the cabinet does, but the future earning ability in a changing world with new technologies is quite something more to say. With regard to the clock, too, I would like to say to both Members that I really will come back to that in the Millions Note with a broader analysis than I can do now. Then we can discuss this with each other during the debate that follows. Mr. Chairman. The final piece on these structural weaknesses is in line with the answer I just gave to Mr Bruins. There are several weaknesses. You can think about the labour market, among other things. I think it is then the art to address them again politically. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the burdens. Some have rightly pointed to the rapidly changing economic situation. That means that if you look at the revenue side of the budget last year, a lot of extra money has come in, but it will dry up as soon as the economy gets worse. By the way, I really do not have to do that in this house. There is something relevant, I say in particular to Mr Van Dijck. In this debate, in relation to the three points we are discussing, namely investment in society, the burden on citizens and the situation of the Treasury, it is good to recall that public debt is still around 400 billion. In percentage terms, government debt is still significantly higher than before the crisis. I do not think that is the only indicator of success, on the contrary, but it is a relevant fact that we are not yet where we were. Some still remember making budgets in the period before the previous crisis. The numbers were then adjusted three, four, five times quite dramatically in six months. Mr Van Dijck, Mrs De Vries and Mr Sneller rightly asked about the development of collective burdens. It is true that they have increased greatly. Well, there's one more thing to tell you. That is what Mr Sneller and Mrs De Vries said. In recent years, we have chosen to increase spending significantly, for example in the field of public health, and then to cover these costs collectively. There is a lot to say for that, because it means that everyone in the Netherlands has access to excellent care, especially if you look at it in an international perspective, but the costs have also grown considerably. See the cost of public health now. I read recently that we have passed the amount of 100 billion on a GDP of about 800 billion. When I mentioned this last week at the G20 meeting at a joint meeting of Finance and Health Ministers, most people were looking rather shiny. They also came to me: that is 100 divided by 800 and then you come to a certain percentage; is that really true? I said, yes, that's true. We have excellent public health for that, but that does take a very big bite out of our spending. The choice to do so again, there is much to be said for that choice, the consequence of which is that you also have to tax it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u85	Mr Van Otterloo has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u86	I do not know if the Minister has spoken on the increase in the cost of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u87	It was more of an interlude in the piece that had to lead me to Mr Van Dijck. I don't really know if I wanted to say a lot more about the care. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u88	We score fairly high in spending, but we are also vice world champion bureaucracy. The comparison around the world shows that, except for the United States, we spend the most on bureaucracy in healthcare. We are talking about regulated market forces, all kinds of systems to ensure that citizens are monitored for their care costs, the system of surcharges. It seems to me that, after the introduction of this system in 2006, we should take a closer look at the system. We do not all spend the money on health care. We spend a lot of money on the control of care and on the administration. And that has only increased with decentralisation, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u89	The good news for Mr Van Otterloo is that the U.S. ministers, together with me in part, are really looking at how to keep care, in their words, organizeable. How do you make sure the access stays excellent? How do you ensure that the quality remains excellent? And how do you keep it affordable in the long term? There are all kinds of investigations and that is something that they are absolutely paying attention to in the here and now. I do not want to deny that part of the costs also have to do with what Mr Van Otterloo calls 'bureaucracy', but I would like to remind you once again that public health in the Netherlands and in particular the cure is of excellent quality. Besides, everyone has access, whatever he or she deserves. That is a great good thing and I wouldn't want to trivialize it too easily by pretending that it isn't important, because that benefits a lot of people in the Netherlands every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u90	I am the last to trivialize this, but on the other hand, the mortality rates, which I have also given, show that we have the second highest cancer mortality rate in Europe and that money does not always end up in the right place. If the money gets to the bureaucracy by the way we send accounts, then the debtor/creditor department is very large in the care department, that money does not go to the care, but to the system. That's what I said. By the way, I still believe that we deserve to be like the Netherlands for the accessibility of our concerns. Well, that's what we've all done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u91	I do not think that I am going to fail the VWS ministers if I say that I think Mr Van Otterloo's little bridge is a bit challenging. He says that high cancer mortality on the one hand has something to do with the organization and costs on the other. And perhaps that is how I understood him, at least, it has to do with the unwillingness to spend money on it. I do not know the figures in detail, but I do know so much about it that I dare to say that it is a combination with prevention, for example the smoking prevention agreement. I also know that it has to do with genetic material, diagnostics and all kinds of other things that are actually taking place in the office. The clutch, as it is now being made, I think is vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u92	No, Mr. Chairman. To avoid any misunderstandings, I didn't say it was one-on-one a matter of allocating. I have said that the point is that we can still make a great deal of profit in health care. Part of it is very long-term. Of course, we have had a very long period in which quit smoking was unspeakable. In the previous cabinet there has been considerable savings in this type of activity and it takes a very long time, in particular, to bring the death rate of lung cancer down to the level of the neighbouring countries. We score very badly, because a lot of smoke has been smoked. That is why my remark...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u93	And your question, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u94	Mr President, it was also a clarification. I didn't say the money goes one-on-one to bureaucracy instead of anything else. I have just said that our efforts in this area need to be increased and that money can be released where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u95	Thank you, Mr Van Otterloo. Then we got rid of that misunderstanding. I owe Mr Van Dijck one last piece of answer. I also have to respond to his appeal for relief. We're a little back to a conversation we've had before. The cabinet is also doing something about the charges in full width compared to that famous basic path. And the burden will continue to decrease further in 2020 and 2021 compared to the baseline path. Mrs De Vries and others have also rightly pointed out that the cabinet and the coalition have also wanted to intervene in the energy bill for around EUR 435 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u96	We all know, as we can read in the newspapers, that the burden in the Netherlands has risen three times more than the EU average over the last ten years and twice as much as in Germany and Belgium. In other words, 50 billion has been raised from the public and business has not contributed anything to that 50 billion. Laura of Spirit made another call yesterday. She said that something is structurally going wrong with public finances and public policy. Because you can't keep asking citizens to pay all the bills, but you can't ask business, capital, contributions. It can't be. It is admirable that it is not here but in France full of yellow hoes, because in principle the Netherlands deserves a lot of yellow hoes at this point. This minister gets away with it, with all nice talk about the care and that it is so accessible, but the fact is that one in three Dutch people is in money problems, worried about his finances. People go on and on, they get it right, the kids go to school and you name it. But the citizens of the Netherlands deserve better, as far as I am concerned. This Minister should take this into account, also because I now have the support of the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u97	Let 'this minister' say once again what a tremendous achievement it is to have this level of public health. Or this level of education, with extra investment again. Or this level of security, a society where it becomes safer on the streets every year, partly thanks to the investments that this cabinet made again in the last round. Or the acquisition that we can spend extra money on youth care again. Yes, there is a problem, but we also have the opportunity to add hundreds of millions more in this government period on top of the money we are already investing. I think that's a widely shared wish. Mr Van Dijck is often a bit gloomy about this cabinet, too gloomy, but here he does society and how the Netherlands really is a little short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u98	I'm not shorting anyone. Of course, that is an achievement of all those hard-working Dutch people who entrust you with that money, who trust you to spend it well on care and safety and education. Of course. But these people have been standing still for two or three decades in terms of their real disposable income. They have as much to spend as 30 years ago, while the economy has doubled and companies' profits have doubled fivefold. Everyone has benefited from that hardworking Dutchman, except the Dutchman himself. Yes, indeed, education, care and security, but not in their wallet, not in their purchasing power. Now they get a bright spot from this minister, everyone's gonna feel it: 1.6%. Wow. They're still crumbs, but they're up 1.6%. And what does the spring note show? No, it's gonna be 1.2% anyway. What about the Millions Note? It's gonna be 1% anyway. And with the Navy's note, it's still 0.6%. That's the way it goes every year. Year in, year out. That's why I'm saying, when is this minister going to fix this crooked affair? This minister has tons of money to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u100	He even has surpluses. Business is bursting with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u101	Mr. Van Dijck, you're clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u102	But people are kept short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u103	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u104	That's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u105	Mr Van Dijck is too gloomy. Let me add that we will review the burden-sharing this year in August. Mr. Chairman. In this way, I automatically come from the burden to a number of questions relating to purchasing power. Mr Snels asked what role the cabinet plays in collective agreements. I think it's a very constructive role. Because we managed to conclude a lot of collective agreements last year and recently there was good news about a collective agreement path that has been quite complicated and in which the directors of Defence have put a lot of time and effort into it, by the way, together with many others. The cabinet also made a very substantial investment in primary education, with 8.5% and then 1% in a period of six to nine months. We have often had the discussion about setting an example. I really think that the cabinet, that each of the members of the cabinet who are responsible for a piece of that negotiation there has done more than her or his fair share. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked for wages even more broadly. Of course, we've exchanged this with each other before. I always want to be careful, especially given my position, to be too optimistic. However, I sincerely believe that a few months ago or a few weeks ago the trade unions said that they were able to conclude a number of collective agreements which they were satisfied with. I paraphrase it a little careless: they would have liked more, but they found 3% very decent. That was of a different level than the messages we had always seen in the months before. It had to, I'd almost say, come up with that crappy one time too. I hope, of course, that this trend will continue. I can't guarantee it, but my expectation is. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked whether I share the OECD conclusions that the middle class is under pressure. He is right that this is a global phenomenon that you might see most strongly in the United States, where there is the fear of falling of the middle class with all the uncertainty that it entails. If you look at the Netherlands, I have also talked about it with Mr Putters recently, and you will see that fortunately that is not so bad, but that does not guarantee that it will remain so. I think it is right that we should keep a close eye on that. Many of the government's policies are, of course, directed specifically at this group, because the middle class, the middle income, are the backbone of our society. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya still asked about profit sharing for people in the workplace. The cabinet wouldn't let that happen. For the record, profit sharing can be a way to stimulate engagement and can also be a way to just let people take advantage in periods of economic growth. If I were an entrepreneur, I might have all kinds of ideas about it. But I'm not. 'Cause that's not my call. This is really something that should be agreed at the collective bargaining table, but I do recognise what Mr Alkaya says, namely that there are entrepreneurs who do this and who are very successful with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u106	That should be an example. Look, if an entrepreneur decides to do that himself... There are plenty of companies, the sensible ones I would almost say, that have plans of this kind. In addition, you can also see that the employees in the workplace show more loyalty, that they show more productivity, that they are more productive and that they also work more enthusiastically. That also makes sense, because if it is less than a year, then those workers also have 'okay, then I don't have a share of the profits', because there is no profit. My question to the cabinet is the following. Suppose the wage increases we all expect here are not becoming a reality, then the cabinet is prepared to promote such measures as profit-sharing, for example, or at least to explore how we could do more. As a socialist, I have far-reaching views on this. But if the cabinet here indicates that it is a sensible choice for entrepreneurs to do so, then it could also investigate how this can be stimulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u107	I am not under any illusion that Mr Alkaya's thoughts really go a little further than mine in this area and, I suspect, most of them here. I think that this is really something that needs to be discussed at the collective bargaining table and what employers and employees themselves should agree on. I do agree with Mr Alkaya that it is a good and sensible employership, even if you think of yourself as an employer, to think about: how do I inspire and motivate my staff, especially in times of cramping; how do I tie it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u108	I'm gonna come up with proposals myself. I have mentioned here a few times that as a Socialist Party we are in favour of a golden share for employees, in line with the model of gold shares held by governments in former state-owned companies. I'm gonna work out that proposal myself. I have another question for the cabinet, because what if those wage increases are not there? The cabinet does not therefore consider that profit sharing should be encouraged. When will the moment come when additional steps will be considered? A lot of questions have been asked about it. Is that the 2020 Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u109	Then I'm going to do that question right away, because of course several speakers have reflected on it. I have not even been asked so many questions, but let me say something about it. We have made agreements in the government agreement on burden relief and the Vpb path. The Chamber recently consulted experts on the extent to which Vpb is actually being paid. At that time, I believe, at the request of the Chamber, that it was Mr Omtzigt's decision to look at how effective that is, to what extent that Vpb is being paid and a number of other things. I think Mr Alkaya is aware of this in detail. I think that's the first part of the answer. Then the second part of the answer. Naturally, as always in August, we are going to look again at what is a reasonable distribution, even when it comes to burden-sharing. Mr Rutte, of course, made comments on a VVD issue in his capacity as VVD leader. In August, we will have to reflect with the cabinet and with the coalition, as always, on the burden-sharing that will be reflected in the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u110	Mr President, in conclusion. I can therefore conclude from this that the proposed reduction of the Vpb has no longer been chiseled in stone and that this will be discussed in August, first of all in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u111	It is, of course, always the prerogative of Members of Parliament to draw pleasing conclusions or deliberately uncomfortable conclusions from what I have just said. I want to stay very close to my own formulation. Because if I did not, Mr Nijboer could just stand up and ask me a question. Of course, I wouldn't want to take that risk, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u112	It's happening anyway. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u113	It is, of course, far too easy to say: MPs provoke governments. No, the Prime Minister of your cabinet has said something, and there are no prime ministers who are divisible. He's always prime minister, 24 hours a day. That's what he always says, and he is. It's not like when he says something at a meeting or in the Chamber, it doesn't count or is different. So the Prime Minister has said that this reduction in the tax on profits is under discussion on 1 January and may not continue if these multinationals do not increase their wages enough. Then the question is simply whether the Minister of Finance shares that statement and whether he acts accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u114	No, with appreciation for Mr. Nijboer's rhetorical knowledge and skill. The party leader of the VVD made a statement that I, as a CDA politician, could have commented on as a CDA politician. I did that outside this Chamber, by the way. But I stand here as Minister of Finance defending cabinet policy, and I have an exchange of views with the spokesman for the Labour Party. The Prime Minister appeared in Question Time. I had the pleasure of being sidelined in part because I was allowed to come myself, but for other subjects. He explained to the Chamber how his statements should be understood and what the cabinet would do with them, and he added that as Prime Minister he did not want to set a deadline. Look, for the record, we are going to look this summer at what is a reasonable burden-sharing, by the way, every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u115	I don't play words. I'm just looking at what the Prime Minister says. I am very happy about that, because it is the main point of the political debate. Divident tax, that was about taxes for large companies. No one's missed that. A Prime Minister will say something about that, and I would like that to happen on behalf of the people. At least part of the population is for that. Then I think the cabinet should speak with one voice. Surely the Minister of Finance agrees with me that the reduction of the profit tax as of 1 January 2020 is simply in the law? That's what the Prime Minister's comment was about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u116	It is precisely because Mr Nijboer is so insisting on unity of government policy that I have no choice, under state law, but to join what the Prime Minister of this country has exchanged in Question Time with, among other things, the spokesman of the Labour Party. There's nothing else I can do. That also the party leader of the VVD made statements at a festival and that was one of the reasons for the Chamber to call him to Question Time, I of course had no role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u117	Mr. Nijboer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u118	When Mr Nawijn was Minister, he said outside the Chamber: I am actually in favour of the death penalty. Well, he had to swallow that again soon, and I don't know what it is. It just can't be. In one of the important socio-economic discussions in this country, as leader of a cabinet, you say: if this does not happen, then that. The Minister of Finance of your own cabinet then says: we don't really change anything, it stays the way it is. That's what you're saying. It can't be. You say: I do not adjust the budget; it was said at a festival. We say something different in the Chamber than in rooms, we don't deliver on our promises. Well, that's very common then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u119	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u120	That's not normal, that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u121	It's an intriguing style figure. Mr Nijboer succeeds in rubbing me on what statements are made at a VVD festival. But let me promise him that I will exchange his discontent with both the party leader of the VVD and the Prime Minister of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u122	That's not my intention. My intention is for the Minister to carry it out, not for him to express his discontent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u123	I think the Minister understands what you mean, but this is his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u124	Just for precision, though. Mr Nijboer finds it uncomfortable that something has been said in two ways. He then drags Mr Nawijn into this debate by his hair, which, of course, is perfectly permissible. But it seems complicated to me that I will then be the one to comment on what Mr Rutte said in one of those two qualities. But once again, I can understand a part of Mr Nijboer's basic enthousiasm. I would like to say once again that, as a cabinet, we will, of course, be looking at the burden development of middle groups and citizens in particular this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u125	My experience over the last two years has been that when important leaders of the VVD, whether they are group chairman or prime minister, say something in the media, which is quite fast policy. This was not only the case for the abolition of dividend taxation, but also for climate policy, for example. The Prime Minister says that if there are not enough wage increases, the reduction in the tax on profits should not continue. The simple question is: do you agree with the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u126	But then we will be back to the discussion that took place in Question Time. That is where the Prime Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, said that they were the words to which I would have to draw my attention, otherwise I would very much agree with the Nijboerdoctrine......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'd like to agree with that last one. At GroenLinks I sense great enthusiasm about the ability of at least one of the coalition parties to translate views directly into policy. I would also like to continue with that compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u127	We also had this debate last week with the Secretary of State for Finance. He said at least that if we wanted to do it as a Chamber as a Chamber, we should agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u128	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u129	Can I summarize the answer of the Minister of Finance when he talks about the August decision-making in such a way that the Secretary of State says that it is possible and that the Minister of Finance says that it is not unthinkable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u130	But, of course, we are going to pay particular attention to the fact that no one is taking a walk in this debate. I saw Mr Nijboer again with his phone in the weather. Then I'm always terrified of what comes out of that, but maybe it was an innocent whatsapp message. I have just said to Mr Nijboer that I understand part of his basic enthusiasm in itself, but the cabinet will then have to do this step by step again with the Chancellor, and that we will have to make this balance in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u131	Finally: at that trade-off in August, looking at that even... um... a little bit... I'm getting really tired! Isn't it unthinkable that the VPB reduction is also on the table? In the end, that's just the question I think the whole society is waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u132	I understand the need for a smooth headline in a news item, but in general... You're using the word "invincible." I would like to refer to this morning's debate. Thoughtful sind frei. By definition, this does not mean anything, or perhaps I can say that nothing is unthinkable. The Secretary of State for Finance was, of course, quite right. I'd like to repeat that. If politics wants to intervene in the Tax Plan, some of the measures will be possible in the short term, regardless of the debate on the desirability. Part of the measures do not allow this, because they can only be done more than a year later, and with other possibilities you will have to wait at least a year or two. However, on this particular subject, it is also absolutely my opinion that the technical aspects of the programme, because that is what we are talking about here, are possible to make adjustments to the Tax Plan that will come into force next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u133	You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u134	Mr. Chairman. If you are organising a festival again, and I may comment on it, I am looking forward to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u135	That's what we're gonna think about. We were at the purchasing power chapter, weren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u136	I think we were done with that, Mr. Chairman. The whole next block dealt with the reduction of corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u137	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u138	So that's what we've been dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u139	That's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u140	Mr. Chairman. Let me do one more thing for precision. I think I have already said to Mr Nijboer that when we made choices in scarcity, of course, we chose all kinds of things. Of course, I would like to congratulate him on the expenditure frameworks, but he also made specific comments on the housing market. Of course, things have happened there. House deals have been made. Corporations have been given more room in the rules. They got a little more financial space last year. At the moment we are looking at whether they need more financial space to make the construction assignment. In the Social Rental Agreement, Mr Nijboer knows much better than I do, I think that at the beginning of this year agreements were also made on adjusting the annual maximum average rent increase of housing corporations. So I'm calling it. I know that Mr Nijboer often asks for it. I suspect he will do the same in other committees. I also truly understand his concern, because in some places there are important bottlenecks. But it's not like nothing's happening. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm in the other category. Mrs De Vries and Mr Sneller asked for improvements in estimates. Mrs De Vries made it even more specific. She asked me if I would be willing to make structural improvements to the estimates for care, among other things, together with the CPB and the other ministries. Fair is fair: these are the best possible estimates of the costs of policy in the future. I've looked at the way our institutions do it more widely. Think of the ministry itself, the planning agency and De Nederlandsche Bank. With all kinds of predictions about income and economic development, you can see that we are actually doing quite well, both nationally and internationally. So I would like to ask you once again to reconsider whether there are things in that system that are actually causing us to have what we have for two years in a row. On the other hand, up to four or five years ago, there was a very sad year in which the cost of care was disappointing, with the result that the gaps in the healthcare budget had to be covered by the others. I had the same question as Mrs De Vries: what is history? Do we always have this? At any rate, I learned at the Ministry that this is a rather short tradition, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u141	The Minister says that it is a relatively short tradition that we are too high with the estimates, but I am as sorry as it is with the estimates. Of course, we have had this tradition for a number of years in a row. I would like to be closer to reality, because I think that is more reasonable and more explainable. I think you should always be willing to look at the models. Are there things in there that you can adapt to, so you're gonna avoid this kind of thing? We've seen that before with models.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u142	That's how I really understood it and that's what I started with in my introduction. Apparently, it's not the easiest branch of sport. To be honest, we have mastered them quite well, but not perfectly; Mrs De Vries is right about that. So let me put the question again. It is also true that the WRR has been asked to update us on what insights can help us to control healthcare expenditure. Perhaps there is something to do with the predictions, but I say that without any prior knowledge; perhaps I am completely wrong. Perhaps I could have the study group's magic formula listened to here as well. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked something very specific: could it be made possible to apply for an authorisation code applicable to Tax and Charges? Quite frankly, I understand the question well, but at the moment it is not possible to apply for an authorisation code which applies both to tax returns and to the surcharges. For Tax Administration matters four authorisation services are possible, namely for income tax of a given year, My surcharges, Money Businesses and also for the landlord tax, but of a specific year. One service can be selected at the same time. I must also say quite frankly that, of course, the Chamber often has an exchange of views with the Secretary of State for Finance on the question of implementation. I have often said to the Chamber that the implementation problems in the Tax Administration are large, complex and persistent. As much as I understand the question, I would not want to put it on top of the pile at the service, at least not now. I hope that Mr Slootweg will look at this with some clemency, or with some compassion, to paraphrase Mr Stoffer's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u143	I always want to look compassionately, but I think you can actually indicate a lot of digital. At the moment it is really impossible to indicate by two crosses that you authorize someone for both the declaration and the surcharges. We're halfway through the year now. Then it is not such a crazy question to investigate whether we can indicate this before 2020, the next tax year. 'Cause that really helps a lot of people who are missing out on fees right now. We have also talked today about purchasing power and discontent. I think that at least you can give people a little bit of purchasing power back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u144	This is a perfectly logical and very reasonable question. But knowing that we are working with man and power, knowing how hard the Secretary of State is working on a lot of things that have to do with operational problems, knowing how many questions the Chamber has already asked and also knowing that the Chamber understandably says that it finds it complicated that its policy desires are not technically possible, I have real hesitation to put this at the top of the list or to put it next to it. What I would like to do is to make this request to the Secretary of State again. I'm so careful that I don't want to overpromise on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u145	What can't be, it can't be. I understand. In my view, it is not such an unreasonable question that can not be investigated in a spirit of thought. Then that may not be there by 2020 or 2021, but you have to go there. I don't think that's been invested at all at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u146	Mr Slootweg is pushing me to the limit. I'll record this internally one more time. We checked this out in advance, of course. The main route is that this is unfortunately not possible at the moment. I would like to ask this again, but I really want to ask for some compassion given the long list of things that have to be done. As much as I would like to get rid of this thing, some other things are quite frankly of even greater importance. Mr President, I am not sure if compassion has won it, but I believe that Mr Slootweg and you will allow me to move on to the next question. Mr Slootweg asked for Malta. He was quite right to say that there are concerns about that. I must refer him to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for dealing with this type of issue. Then Mr.Sneller asked about the MTO, the Medium Term Objective. Why is it 0.5? Basically, it's always at -0.5. However, derogations may be made if a Member State has a debt below 60% and a low sustainability risk. However, the Commission considers that this is interesting precisely in the light of the discussions that we are having about spending more money and that the Netherlands does not have a low sustainability risk but a medium sustainability risk. That's why we thought it logical to continue at that -0.5. Mr Slootweg asked for the Finance fit for Paris benchmark. I share the view that this benchmark from academia is a good initiative. I also attach great importance to the independence of the academic initiative. The government and the sector are working ambitiously. Can I agree with Mr Slootweg in this way? I am also thinking of the exchange of views that I often have with Mr Snoots. I think that could be a good way forward. And really, I have said it before: the Dutch financial sector is certainly not lagging behind when it comes to initiative, especially in this area. And that's to be commended. Mr. Chairman. I've already had a lot. I think I have also recognised and exchanged Mr Stoffer's question on the importance of defence. I myself have recently been to Lithuania with the Dutch troops and have seen again what it matters if you have good equipment. Many have referred to a long list of small and larger things that have been reflected in the Spring Paper, but I do not think I have to answer any questions. I would think that this is the time to move on to the amendments. First of all, the amendment to item No. 4 (35210-IX) by Mr Nijboer on the removal of corporate tax reductions. Given the debate I have just had and given my sympathy and the proper process I intend to conduct, I must advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 5 (35210-IX) by Mr Beckerman and Mr Alkaya, on the reduction in the levy on sustainability. I'll have to advise against that, too. If I've seen it correctly, the proposal is uncovered. There is also an interdepartmental working group currently working on how much money the housing corporations will need in the coming years. It seems prudent to wait and see. The next amendment to item No. 4 (35210-VI) also belongs to Mr Alkaya, but now with Mr Van Nispen. It is about the operating surplus Article 92 still undivided and the social lawyer. Although I understand the question in itself, it might be good to point out that, technically speaking, this coverage is complicated, not to say impossible. Indeed, it is proposed that the under-exhaustment achieved in 2018 and the operating surplus of Article 92 should still be used undivided, if not used. However, this item has been used in the 2019 budget to deal with bottlenecks within JenV's budget. I must therefore advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u147	Before you go any further, Mr Alkaya would like to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u148	I have expressed my surprise at this, because this under-exhaustment has been systematically included in the budget. The same under-exhaustment is contained in the 2019 budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security. At the end of the year, as happened in 2018, if we don't set it up, it will be used for all sorts of things. I say let's bet it on the social attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u149	Yes, but a different choice has been made by the Justice and Security Ministers, in consultation with the cabinet. Mr Alkaya will agree with me that you cannot bet that money twice. So it is now being used to tackle bottlenecks in the budget. Now I can understand politically in itself that Mr Alkaya claims to be unwise, but you cannot use it twice. Well, I guess he'll agree with me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u150	No, you can't bet it twice. That is why I tabled an amendment to use it in 2019. Technically it is possible, but we have a disagreement on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u151	Yes, except that of course we must have solved those bottlenecks, otherwise I will have a new problem in return and then we will get a bit of the rain in the drip. Apart from that, this is simply a choice made by the members of the cabinet. And they really think they're well-balanced. I come to Mrs van den Hul's amendment to the Labour Party. I must advise against this, because I believe that the first supplementary budget of OCW also explains that part of the wage and price adjustment is being used to solve the outstanding task and the setback at DUO. In addition, it is good to stress once again that OCW fully pays out the salary adjustment on the education cost. I come back to Mr Alkaya, now with another author, Mrs Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u152	We'll make Mr. Hijink out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u153	Mr. Hijink, excuse the chairman. We are being asked to identify the financial resources that we are making available. I should also advise against this amendment, because the additional funds for youth care are part of the general benefit. We have just opted for an extra investment in combination with that research. I really think that's the sensible way to go. Mr Snels has the amendment to item No. 5 (35210-VIII) on wage and price adjustments. He wants to take some back there, too. I have to advise against this, because the Spring Note has already released 41 million for the softening of redistribution effects. The first two years there are no negative redistributing effects. As the Minister of OCW stated on Monday, because of the government's investment in higher education and research, no university will go into decline. Furthermore, universities, she also regularly explains to me how they distribute their budget within their university.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u154	That amendment was also inspired by the debate held by the Minister for Education last Monday. Education spokesmen were left in total confusion over the pluses and minuses that were exchanged in that debate. Moreover, there has been a great deal of unrest in universities, because they have also come up with new figures today. My amendment is not about the 41 million, but only about the 27 million for scientific education, which is opposed to the reduction in the price adjustment. The request is to reverse that for now and to ensure careful decision-making, which the Minister himself is always talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u155	Apart from the fact that I have not had or followed that education debate, my impression really is that the Minister of OCW is doing this extremely carefully. The cabinet has made extra money available on top of the huge investments made by the cabinet in the field of OCW, so next to the 1.6 billion and next year, I believe, 1.9 billion will add another 100 million. That's part of the money that goes to the larger number of children. No, I have to say "young adults." We wanted to make extra money available for that. In addition, additional funding will be provided for scientific research and education in particular. I think Mr Nijboer referred to that. I think that is really generous, although "royal" always sounds so generous, and that it really shows how seriously we take education in the Netherlands. I find it a little complicated to review a debate in which a colleague has acted, to distill out some confusion and then to increase the party with a Green Left amendment. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u156	What I objected to was that the Minister would now add up all these sums. I'm just trying to make it as small as possible. This is about the Van Rijn Committee and about something that we almost share Chamberwide, about additional investments in science and technology. The Minister says that there are redistributing effects in the spring note "b" but we mitigate them. That's only for scientific education at $27 million. If you add up the investigation there, you'll have $41 million. Against this softening is the hard stone of the discount on the wage-price adjustment. So there is no question of softening, and that is why all universities are in turmoil. I would say: consider this process carefully with regard to the budget. We can use this amendment to buy time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u157	Could it be that Mr Snels is shopping a little selectively in the overall package of what has taken place there? Even without having that spectacular debate on the retina, my observation is that it is entirely reasonable what the Minister of OCW is doing. I also think that there is a great deal of justification for this. Children and young adults are more likely to take advantage of training. For this good situation, we do not want to cut down on universities and higher education. In addition, we are going to use a large part of the money we have left for higher education in a structural way. That's the amount in an order of 40 million. I think that is a balanced and reasonable package.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u158	Mr. Snels, this is the fourth time at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u159	No, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u160	Then I miscounted. What else do you have to add to this? Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u161	Very briefly, then. Can the Minister rule out the fact that universities with all these pluses and minuses in the coming months must offer redundancies to scientific staff in the alpha and gamma sciences, or that they cannot renew their contracts? Can the Minister rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u162	I think I have just given a very comprehensive explanation and Mr Snels, or one of his colleagues from the Green Left Group, has had the pleasure of debating this whole evening earlier this week. Don't let me ruin the party by answering a complicated closed question about this. This brings me to the long-term care leave and the amendment tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Jasper van Dijk. I must advise against this, because I do not think that a subsidy scheme is necessary. The government provides support through leave arrangements and rights to flexible work. What people need in particular is understanding of their employer and flexibility in the workplace. The Minister for Social Affairs has agreed with the social partners to draw up a manual for employers to support them in this respect. Mr. Chairman. With your permission, that brings me to the end of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u163	Not on the last amendment? If it's okay, there's another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u164	This was the amendment in part No. 5 (35210-XV).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u165	There's eight of them in total. There's another one from Mr. Alkaya and Mr. Hijink. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u166	I thought I'd already treated that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u167	Does that make me miserable? Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u168	Technically, they are two amendments. The amendment in part No. 4 (35210-XVI) calls for the budget of the Ministry of Finance to be raised. The amendment in part No. 4 (35210-B) calls for a reduction in the Municipal Fund. They belong together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u169	Okay, clear. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u170	I came in a little later, when the minister had already started. I asked a question about the implementation organisations. There's a passage on that in the spring note. It looks at how these can be improved. What I'm so afraid of is that there's gonna be a nice digging report about that, when you could actually do something earlier. Can the Minister indicate anything about the trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u171	Very much so. That is precisely why the cabinet has decided to put butter on the fish immediately with a few implementing organizations. I won't mention them all, but the IRS was in that list. I believe that the UWV was also in that list, and one of the organisations under the Ministry of IenW. So not only do we want to investigate, but we also want to make money available in the here and now. That is precisely to prevent what Mr Slootweg says, namely: you let the problem rise quietly and you will not do anything until the investigation is there. You could actually say that we are taking the same approach as we have in the field of youth care. There we have done and-and done, so a substantial investment and a research to understand exactly how the problem works. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u172	Good. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the members for a second term. Let's get started on that soon. First of all, Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I just had to think, when I saw the Minister of Finance talking to Mr Snels, that it's actually good if he's being so difficult when someone comes to ask for money, because it happens regularly at the Ministry of Finance. Then he'll have to hold off the boat. On the other hand, I was thinking, he's on a 10-billion-dollar surplus and last year's 11.3 billion-dollar surplus. He promises the citizens of this country a purchasing power plus. If it turns out that this purchasing power plus is not achieved by all the measures he takes himself, the VAT, the energy bill, which means inflation is higher than expected, then he does not give at home. That's what the citizens are sick of. This has been going on for 30 years, not just with this finance minister, but with almost every finance minister for the last 30 years. I have two more questions. Is he going to do something about this imbalance between the tax burden on labour and on capital? Laura of Spirit of the CPB also called for this yesterday. That's my first question. My second question is: is he going to do something about the purchasing power of the citizens? He promised they'd get a plus. Now that inflation is higher than prices, people are going to have to look at it and go back on it grossly. Mr. Chairman. Those are my two most important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u174	Thank you. Mrs de Vries, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I have a number of questions to ask. The Minister has set out a number of issues concerning healthcare expenditure. I had asked about healthcare expenditure, but at least also about social affairs expenditure. They are, of course, also a major part of collective spending at the moment. So I'm curious to see how the Minister looks at that. Thank you for the commitment to at least look at the earning capacity and to go into it extensively in the Millions Note. I assume the Minister is talking about the growth power. I also hope that the Minister will look not only at innovation, technology and all that, but also at infrastructure, for example. We have already discussed this in another debate this morning. I think it would be a bad thing if we had the overdue maintenance to push away the new construction of infrastructure. Thanks for the answers on Defense, too. I am not entirely clear when the Ministry of Defence is coming up with information on how the funds are going to be filled in. I would have asked for a specific date. There was of course extensive talk about the festival and the party leader of the VVD. Let me make it clear once again that we believe that the large companies should increase wages. If they do not pick up that glove, we will certainly look for appropriate measures. I find it a little faint that a number of parties have implied something else about that. Let me make that clear once again here. Finally. Something has been said in the debate this morning about this afternoon's business. I wanted to say a few words about this morning's debate. It has become clear that Italy is not going to be dealt with. The Minister promised information this morning. I'd like some more detailed information on it. The deficit procedure has not been initiated. I want there to be more clarity about the figures that are available, but also about what figures have actually been used. We have also seen that varying figures are at the basis of the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u176	Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u177	Yes, Mr President, I felt addressed because Mrs De Vries said about the festival: they shouldn't be so silly about that. But there is none of the opposition that has made the link between the tax reduction and the wage increase. That is simply one of the great measures this cabinet is taking. There's only one person who did that, and that's Prime Minister Rutte. Well, then it's not so crazy that we ask for it. Then you can go hitting us with "it's faint that they're asking for it," but you just don't say the same thing he said. And the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance say something quite different than the Prime Minister. The Minister of Finance himself said: I am going to appeal to the Prime Minister; it should not be so anymore. Isn't that a show of fury?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u178	You can ask for anything you want. I have also responded extensively to it. I'm not saying it's lame. I find it faint when you say that we would not be in favour of measures. We want to give only the business sector, which is now on the move, the opportunity to make that wage increase happen. Then, if that is not the case, you think appropriate measures are necessary. And that makes you a caricature. I think that's silly. You may attack me on anything; you may attack me on the statements of my party leader, you may attack me on the Prime Minister's statements, you may attack me on statements at festivals and you may attack me on statements here; fine. I am happy to speak to you; I would like to explain to you again, but in this way, that this is the order we see as a VVD. That is what I wanted to emphasise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u179	I don't make caricatures. On the contrary, I take the Prime Minister's statements very seriously. That is why I have made an amendment, which has included exactly that, even without percentages. For I hear you say that it should not be 3% or 4%, but a significant increase. I did it exactly as he said it, to record in Parliament what was said at that festival. And I'm counting on the VVD's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u180	If you are indeed doing exactly that, then you should also look at what our party leader has said about it, in order of course. That is also what we attach ourselves to. Then you shouldn't take one part and not the other part. That's my only comment towards a number of people in this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u181	Thank you. Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the Minister for the answer to all our questions. However, I must say that I am disappointed by the Minister's assessment of my amendment to scientific education. This is the result of the Van Rijn Committee. It is an important issue; I think there is a lot of support for it in the Chamber, but there is also a lot of support for it in universities: more investment in science and technology. At the same time, I must say that the cabinet is making a bit of a mess of decision-making. My amendment was aimed at improving that. I hope that the coalition will take a good look at this in the vote. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Prime Minister is right that it is not acceptable with the current profits in business that collective bargaining wages do not rise sufficiently;]] [[considers that the Prime Minister is right that the proposed reduction in the tax on profits should be removed if there are no significant increases in wages;]] [[calls on the Government to give Princess Day an appreciation of wage increases in business on the basis of the CPB's Macro-Economic Recognition (CPR) and actual collective wage developments, so that the Court can decide in the Tax Plan whether the reduction of profit tax should indeed be removed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u183	The motion is aimed at taking a stand at least around Prinsjesdag to see what is going on with the wage increases. Then, on the basis of these facts, we can follow up this debate, an important debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u184	Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for giving the answers. I thought I was missing an answer, namely to the question: how do the surcharges now work through spending on the collective burden burden? Is it so to speak that if you spend more on supplements, that automatically increases the collective burden? And if you had turned that into a tax deduction measure, is it true that it is lower? I didn't hear that answer. I welcome the fact that the plans launched in the Spring Paper to look at the implementation organisation are already being implemented immediately and are not waiting until they have everything. With a little reluctance I am going to read a motion, because I expected a somewhat more generous response to the question surrounding the authorisation code. I understand that it seems small, but for a lot of people it has also been discussed here; Mr Van Dijck gave that just to debt debt plays a major role and that little bit of supplement can indeed be useful. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that civil society volunteers assisting people in completing a tax return should apply for two authorisation codes, one for the tax return and the other for applying for surcharges;]] [[Considering that this is not in line with the slogan "we can't make it more fun, but easier";]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible that only one authorisation code is required for both the declaration and the surcharges;]] [[invites the Government to consider, if possible, whether this can be introduced before the 2020 tax season,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, but I shall begin with a preliminary remark. I think the cabinet has shown itself on its most rigid side today. We have made a modest number of proposals for improvements over the budget which are well below the expected budget surplus. Yet they've all been dissuaded. Especially when it comes to how social housing can be improved or isolated, I find that bizarre. There's no need for cover for that at all. That is a deduction, so that would result in less revenue at the end of the year, which would result in a hundredth less budget surplus. I have tabled an amendment to take that into account. That includes this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the application process for the Landlord Tax Reduction Scheme ceased to be sustainable as of 1 July 2019;]] [[Whereas this scheme encourages landlords to make housing more sustainable, leading to a much-needed reduction in the energy bill and also brings the climate targets closer;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the so-called cap on the Landlord Tax Reduction Scheme in 2019, so that this scheme can be invoked again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u187	Then I have another motion on the discussion that wages should be raised and that the tax on profits should not be reduced otherwise. This motion goes a little further than that of GroenLinks, but looks like it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Prime Minister considers that collective bargaining wages should keep pace with wages at the top of the business world;]] [[noting that the Prime Minister considers that the proposed reduction in the tax on profits should not take place if wages are not paid;]] [[calls on the Government to submit, by Princess Day at the latest, measures to the Chamber that increase household purchasing power, financed by the failure to continue with the planned reduction in the tax on profits, so that these measures can be introduced if it appears that collective wage agreements do not keep pace with wage levels at the top,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u188	Then I have one final brief question to the Minister. Does he intend to undertake to consider whether the under-exhaustments are being used at random by different ministries? So we have just had that with the Ministry of Justice, but so does the Ministry of Social Affairs. So we approve certain expenditure here, but then the under-exhaustment, which is already being taken into account, is used for all kinds of things. I had a feeling the Minister wasn't aware of that. So my question is whether he wants to take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u189	Thank you. Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u190	I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. For all the people in the public gallery and at home who are following this debate and wondering what this Study Group on Budgets is, let me tell you which podcast I was listening to. That was The Hague Affairs. Then I look forward to the Minister's reflection on innovation in the Millions Note. If he comes to the conclusion in that reflection that there should be more money, then that should also be in the Millions Note. I also look forward to the interim report on the Sneller c.s. motion. In doing so, I will pay particular attention to the question of investment. I will forgive the Minister for not answering my question about the midterm. We'll keep following the papers. On the medium-term objective, I found the Minister's answer interesting. It was an additional incentive to ensure that we better score in the European Commission's sustainability analyses so that we can set a more ambitious path for ourselves. I would like to see the question answered as to whether the Minister can say anything about the WRR report on care and its publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u191	Thank you. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the bill for higher interest rates on student loans has been withdrawn;]] [[having regard to the fact that this has led to a gap in the education budget;]] [[calls on the government in the next Millions Note to cover this gap without cutting the education budget elsewhere,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u193	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answer to the questions of the Chamber. I come back to one point, and that is the reduction in the tax on profits in relation to the increase in the wage of multinationals. I cannot escape the impression that the Secretary of State and the Minister are a bit out of line with the festival goer who takes the lead in the polonaise. We often talk about trust in politics here. Do those politicians do what they say? Politicians are at a festival at an election meeting. You're Prime Minister and it's okay, but I think it's being done far too lightly. If a Prime Minister says something, then I expect and then the people in the Netherlands can also expect that this is cabinet policy, that the Minister of Finance will say the same thing as the Prime Minister and that the action will be taken. Otherwise, it's unbelievable. It's a big social discussion. The comments were deliberately chosen. By the way, the Prime Minister would have to stick to it if he had said it by mistake. No, a strategy has been deliberately chosen to place it this way. Eventually today it appears that the cabinet and the group of the VVD are seeking maximum space to back down. I don't like that. That is why I have tabled an amendment which translates the Prime Minister's words precisely into legislation: if wages do not rise sufficiently, the tax reduction will not go ahead. I can see broad support for this, including among coalition parties. I am therefore actually counting on us to see in the votes tomorrow that if wages do not rise sufficiently....................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u194	Thank you. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u195	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I know this finance minister as a prudent treasurer. On a regular basis, I praise him for that and I know him the same way. I am therefore sure that this Minister wishes to keep an eye on developments in society, especially if they affect the cyclical sensitivity of our public finances. I therefore found his answer to my question about automatic stabilisers in an increasingly flexible labour market somewhat economical. That is why I would like to ask that question again in the form of a motion. It sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch economy and hence public finances are relatively cyclically sensitive and volatile;]] [[Whereas the rapid flexibilisation of the labour market may further increase this volatility and could therefore increase the impact on the economy and society in a subsequent recession than before;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare an analysis of the impact on public finances of the ever-increasing flexibility of the Dutch labour market, in particular on the effectiveness of the functioning of automatic stabilisers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u197	Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u198	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister for his contribution to the debate. But I think that the question about the estimates of the CBS and the CPB will come back to the discussion of the EZ budget. For me, it is still the question where the big questions should actually be about how big we should be short. In other words, what expenditure can we spend on the really large surpluses we have? At least we will come back to that in the millions note, because it is clear that it cannot go on like this. By the way, when it comes to the estimates and how many were above them, I remember a surplus in the previous period of 1 billion, 1,000 million, in the health sector on the basis of the estimates that had been made. We support all the motions and amendments aimed at improving wages. That is also very important for 50PLUS. At the same time, however, I have not heard the Minister say anything about what that could mean for pensions. Pensions do not benefit from wage increases. The pensions are in a different system and I have already indicated that the pension agreement, even if there is an additional 5% return in the coming year, only 0.5%, which is far below inflation, is being applied to pensions. At the same time, a number of pension funds with their coverage fall below 100%. This means that pensions continue to suffer and that the gap between pensioners and those in employment is only widening. You will understand that 50PLUS will oppose this disastrous development of the separation of the elderly and young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u199	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister, because I've been told he can answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u200	Mr President, I think I only miss the sixth motion. I'm just asking, because I sometimes get lost in all the papers I have in front of me. I do the remaining questions first and then I deal with the motions, which I think I have almost all of them in front of me. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck once again asked about purchasing power. He knows my views on this: I do not want to make any promises about it. So I will not do that here either, no matter how important I think the subject is. Mr. Chairman. I answer the questions in the order in which they were asked and then I come to Mrs De Vries. She asked for a few more things. First of all, she said that we're going to look at VWS, but that she wants the costs of SZW to be looked at as well. I understand that very well. Because even if the costs of SZW increase less quickly than those of VWS, it is the other big part of the state budget. I would like to promise her that I will look into this together with the Minister of SZW. This is quite apart from the thorns and thistles with which that path is then strewn, because there are all kinds of complexities in that budget on all kinds of issues that we also consider important. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries also asked about the defence and the plan. I believe that there is satisfaction among many here that it seems that there is a collective agreement. This means that, as soon as possible, Defence will fill in the additional funds and inform the Chamber as soon as possible, at the latest in the 2020 draft budget, at least this year. Mr. Chairman. This morning we already had the idea that some parts of that debate could also be included in this debate, but it now appears to be the case vice versa. I'm talking about Italy. Let me at least say a few things about this, because I understand very well that Mrs De Vries asked for it. What is the situation with regard to this morning? The Commission has just decided, I think just before the debate, not to initiate EDP, excessive deficit procedure. What is positive, for example, is that in 2019 the Italian budgetary position improved by more than 7 billion; 7 billion plus 600 million, if I am not mistaken. It is also a good thing that the Commission has made its own analysis, that this is its own analysis and that the Commission has confirmed the Italian figures. Mrs De Vries recognizes, I think, that I have said more often that it is about growth, about the budget and about making the figures right in order to verify them. On the other hand, the Italian debt is, of course, still very high and does not decrease either. So the question I have also discussed this morning is: it is a good step, but is it a big enough step and has the Commission been too flexible or too flexible? I'd really like to take a good look at that. After that, I will provide the Chamber with my opinion as soon as possible. I'm not quite sure it's working out, but go try to do that before next Monday's meeting. I would also like to add a letter to Mrs De Vries on the use of the figures, which she referred to in particular. The only point I would like to make, with her approval, is the question of whether all this can be done before Monday and Tuesday's sitting. I'm gonna work for it, but I'm not quite sure if it's gonna work. Mr. Chairman. I have answered three questions from Mrs De Vries. She also asked me one more thing: to look even wider than just innovation. That is exactly how I understood the question, where the Millions note was concerned. With a hink-step-jump, I will also include Mr Sneller's point that it would be nice to have money attached to it. I think I really wanted to make a full commitment to look at this, but it is not the case that I had already made an advance on money. I don't want to make a misunderstanding about that. Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Snels had some observations that I do not need to comment on further. Mr Slootweg asked a good and indeed quite complex question about the transfer. Most allowances are not part of the collective burden, but are part of the collective expenditure. So you get the curious figure that if the... No, if the surcharges were to be converted into a tax rebate, the collective burden would therefore fall. This is, by the way, different from the care allowance. I would like to clarify that very complex forest in a letter if Mr Slootweg thinks it is useful, but this is the answer to the main points. I don't see him nodding that that's still necessary, do I? Let me explain that to you. Mr Alkaya was a little sad about what did not happen to his amendments. I immediately remembered the proverb: frustration is soured ambition. He should read that as an invitation to participate in a cabinet formation, because then there is even more influence to put your own thoughts into policy. Mr Alkaya also asked about the underexhaustment. As promised earlier to Mr Nijboer, I will repeat where the underexhaustment is and to what extent it is structural or not. Although I do not know exactly what Mr Alkaya is saying, I would like to take his question into account. Mr. Chairman. Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u201	Mr Alkaya has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u202	The reason why the Minister disapproves of my amendment on social lawyers is that he also thought I was talking about 2018. Anyone would think so. When you talk about under-exhaustment, everyone thinks: that's already been realized, that's probably last year. But in the budget of Justice and Security there is a structural underexhaustment, a kind of post unforeseen, which is used for everything. If I want to make a proposal here as a Member of Parliament on how that could be used, I get the answer that it is being used for other purposes. Does the Minister for Finance want to take a look at this with the Minister for Justice, which is part of his mission in the cabinet? Is this the way we should deal with budgets? If an underexhaustment is expected, budgetize less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u203	Yeah, but then we'll be back to the little debate we're having here a little bit about bottlenecks that still have to be resolved. I thought I'd arranged it charmingly towards Mr. Alkaya. I don't recognize the image he sketches, but I've understood his question in such a way: what happens to underexhaustment? In any case, let me take this with me when I answered the question put to me by Mr Nijboer a few months ago, which was broader about underexhaustment. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked about the WRR and the care. It is a very long period, but it is not expected until the end of 2020. I have sometimes wondered whether that was exactly the speed of light we would have wished for. Then we have to assume that it is doing very well. By the way, of course, that is also really on the WRR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u204	If I do a quick calculation, then all the parties have written their election programmes, which would be the time to use their results. I think I'll get in touch with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u205	Excellent. Mr. Chairman. I think those were the comments that have been made. Then I'll get to the motions. I shall begin with Mr Snels' motion on one of today's central issues, namely collective bargaining. What I would like to say to Mr Snels, therefore, is that I want to see to what extent we can see what agreements have been made during the summer months, because that is how I understand his question. This implies, moreover, that many collective agreements will still be concluded in the coming period, especially in the summer period. To be honest, I'm not sure that's the case. We could also look further back at what has happened over the last few months. But then there is not a possible effect of the statements made at the festival. So I want to make a commitment in this way, but I find the motion as it stands now on paper with the qualifications in the preamble somewhat complicated. If I can use this to content Mr Snels, I would be happy to take on board that effort. In addition, I am not sure what exactly comes out of that, because I simply do not know exactly that collective agreements are still being concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u206	I also think it is important for the House to have a ruling on the recitals in the motion. In my opinion, if I know the Chamber, even the VVD would agree, but let us take a look at the interpretation of the operative part. He's asking for an appreciation. I can imagine that means, among other things, what is happening over the next few months. I think it is important, then, to look at what the CPB actually expects. We have to get an idea at some point that will be for the debate at the General Political Reviews, I suppose about how high these wage increases actually are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u207	That's why I'm trying to unravel it. Where, of course, it gets complicated, that is exactly the debate we have had together here, is that it says 'in the view that the Prime Minister is right'. The Prime Minister has explained himself here in Question Time. It also states that there must be substantial increases in wages. This will be based on a political weighting. I would also like to make it quite clear that we are all taking these qualifications along with me on those texts, but I think it is important that we have clear what is and is not government policy at the moment and that we clearly have what is and is not going to be possible. What I have no objection to in itself is that the cabinet is mapping out what the development has been at the various collective bargaining tables, but I would like to say again: as far as we can. When it comes to appreciation, that is my second qualification, there are many comments to be made, precisely because it concerns employers and employees. The third is that I do not know half as much about it as my colleague Mr Koolmees wonders how many collective agreements are typically concluded in the summer months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u208	However, I have not yet heard any judgment on this motion, other than that I have heard a counter-offer from the Minister. So I'm just looking into what the Minister of this motion thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u209	I am trying to unravel it, because I want to point out to Mr Snels that I can handle a number of elements. Then I think there are two options: either he adjusts the motion, but then it is important that we have a look at it, or he takes my generous commitments and he withdraws the motion. That seems to me to be the two obvious solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u210	The petitioner, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u211	My counteroffer was that I agree with the interpretation of how the motion could be carried out. There's plenty of room for that in the cabinet. The Minister himself indicated that in the August decision-making the cabinet itself should look again at wage development and burden development. That's what an appreciation is for. My counteroffer is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u212	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u213	So my counteroffer is that you can interpret it as you wish...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u214	Mr. Snels, may I interrupt you for a moment? We're not gonna negotiate a operative here. The Minister says I can only give your motion judgment Chamber if you change it along my lines. That's what the Minister said. Otherwise the motion simply gets the verdict: dissuade. That's all there is to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u215	I don't think the hole is that big. Perhaps Mr Snels would like to take a look at the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u216	But we're not gonna do that here. The Minister has clearly indicated what he is concerned with, which elements of the motion are useful and which are not. Then it is up to the petitioner to consider whether he is willing to do so or not. I want to get rid of that endless negotiation of motions, because they are not presented along this line for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u217	Sure, the chairman's absolutely right, there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u218	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u219	...is some tension between what the petitioner asks and what the cabinet can deliver. That's why this conversation is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u220	Yes, I understand. But I am going to be just as strict, because we are having a debate tonight on the Climate Agreement, and that has to start at 7.30 p.m. So I'd really like to go on, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u221	I'll think about whether I'm changing the motion. I don't think we're very far apart, but I'm still not sure how to change the motion. I will consider it for a moment and enter into consultation with other Members of Parliament. Then we'll vote on it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u222	Yes. Then we're formally going to dissuade the motion. If Mr Snels changes his mind and a modified motion is tabled, there may be a new reaction from the cabinet. And all that for tomorrow afternoon/evening when we vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u223	I repeat that I really do see good in that part of the investigation and that I really do not think it is true that I am subtracting two legs and one arm from the motion before I can give judgment to Chamber. It is just what Mr Snels wants, but I think it would be worth studying. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u224	Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u225	I'm already at the second motion. That's the motion in part No. 4. Mr Slootweg drives me even further in terms of making me more user-friendly. Let me say once again that I would like to respond to the desire to be able to make an easy declaration. I can also give this motion judgment room, but... I absolutely do not want to question the fact that this is something important. I just wanted to point out that the tasks on the table of the Tax Administration are extremely large. I'm gonna put something on the table with this. Looking and judging can, but I really want to draw attention to the full board of the Tax Administration and not raise false expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u226	That is why I have also formulated the request as I have put it. What can be, let that be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u227	Then you understand each other, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u228	That's why I gave Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u229	The motion in part No. 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u230	The motion in part No. Five, I have to dissuade. Raising the cap requires cover on the load side. The motion at No. 6, as Mr Alkaya himself said, is actually the strengthened or pumped-up version of Mr Snels' motion, but goes a little further. This is not a planned cabinet policy, so I must discourage this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u231	The motion in part No. 5 and the motion in part No. 6 are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u232	The motion in part No. 7 by Mr Nijboer on higher interest rates on student loans, because that motion is premature. As reported, the cabinet involves withdrawing from the August decision-making process. I would like to ask for room to wait for that, precisely because we are always trying to weigh these things in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u233	The motion in part No. 7 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u234	Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8. To be honest, I thought we had a long way to go. I shall make that even more clear by giving this motion of censure to the Chamber, because it seems to me to be a useful additional point of view. With regard to the question of flexibility in relation to the automatic stabilisers of the economy, I am going to see whether it is most logical to give this to Mr Borstlap, whose work and life I do not want to cause any further problems, or whether it has to be done in a different way. But I understand that analysis is useful. So I'm leaving this motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u235	The motion in part No. 8 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u236	Mr. Chairman. Then I think I am at the end of my remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u237	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to this debate on the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-14.u238	The amendments and motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. Then we will continue the debate on the Climate Agreement.
