ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the consequences of the closure of social workshops. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Of course, a warm welcome to all Members of Parliament, the support and the people in the public gallery. I'm glad you're here and I'm glad you're here. The same applies, of course, to those who follow this debate in a different way. I have already indicated that there is a 30-member debate. We have a tight schedule because of the tightly scheduled summit. This debate must therefore be completed at 12 noon. We have a three-minute speaking time and I propose a maximum of two interruptions, in two. An interruption is a short question and a short answer from the Secretary of State. We can start as far as I'm concerned. I am happy to give the floor first to Mr De Jong. Mr De Jong made his contribution on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. A year ago, on behalf of the PVV, I asked for a debate on a broadcast by ZEMBLA. It made it painfully clear once again what the negative consequences are of closing down social services. People with disabilities who had previously been promised access to a social workshop or sheltered work were then at home against their will for years, while they were so eager to get to work, to make themselves useful and to be a full part of our society. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State promised to improve in several subsequent debates and media moments. Now, a year later, the PVV would like to know what the situation is, because this issue is still more than topical. We still see a lot of unrest in this target group. People are very worried and have sleepless nights of all changes. People with disabilities are still afraid of losing their jobs or not getting back to work. That's not so crazy either. We are getting reports that when we look at the number of sheltered workplaces, it still doesn't work as this cabinet has promised us. When you follow the news a little bit, you can also see that there are new waiting lists in the country, with the result that a new group of people with a disability will be at home unnecessarily again, with all the negative financial and social consequences. Mr. Chairman. We really need to stop this. That is why I have a few specific questions. What exactly is the situation with regard to the realisation of sheltered workplaces? If we look at 2018 alone, is it true that we are far behind in achieving sheltered workplaces in relation to the targets set? How many people who were previously on a waiting list and were still entitled to access a social workshop under the WSW now have work? And how many of them have a sheltered workplace? How many of these people are still at home? What about the implementation of the adopted PVV motion in this context to actively approach this target group, with the aim of organising work for them and creating sheltered workplaces? What about the adopted PVV motion that calls for existing social workshops to use their knowledge and infrastructure to realize sheltered work? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The aim must be to get as many people working as possible and not to leave people who can still mean so much to themselves and our society unnecessarily at home. That is why I expect more than just consultations with municipalities and interest groups. There is a need for more action from this Secretary of State. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to put this into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I see a question from Mr Raemakers. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	That is a fine speech by Mr De Jong to focus more on sheltered work. I would like to ask Mr De Jong whether he agrees with D66 that we should be able to switch easily, so that you come from sheltered work more easily to a job appointment, or that you might come from day-to-day spending more easily to sheltered work. Does Mr De Jong agree that we should make this much easier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	I want people who could get to work to be helped. I believe that if municipalities encounter obstacles in getting people who used to have a WSW indication, for example, they should be removed. That makes sense to me. At the same time, however, I also believe that there are obstacles that are not at all present in many situations. We have a beautiful social workshop. These are organisations that have the knowledge and the infrastructure to help people who are still at home often. We saw that last year on a broadcast from Zembla. In it people said: I was promised a year ago by Klijnsma that I would get to work, but that has still not happened to date, after three years of sitting at home. However, there are still social workshops where they can get started. But yes, unfortunately: they have been locked. In other words, much is already possible. If there are municipalities experiencing obstacles, they must be removed. But it cannot be the case that there are municipalities that identify barriers that are not there, because they simply do not want to invest in, for example, the knowledge and the infrastructure that has been there for a long time and a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Finalizing, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	One of the obstacles I often hear is that people are in the daily business. Labour spending on day-to-day work is less favourable for people than the title 'deserved work'. In sheltered work, you also get a piece of salary. So that's more than labour-intensive daily spending. What could we do now to encourage municipalities to use sheltered work rather than labour-intensive daily spending?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	I therefore believe that there should be tailor-made work, that the person concerned should be looked at. The city needs to see who it's about and what suits that person. How can we best get them to a place where that person can take steps? But what I also want to say is that people need to be protected. You often see the picture that people supposedly could do a lot when they're actually already in a place where they're really in place. So we've got to do some good bespoke work. As far as I am concerned, we must oblige the municipalities to actually meet the targets and not hide behind obstacles that in many cases are not there either. And we need to make sure that people who are still at home get to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In January, Klaas-Jan, an employee with a partial Wajong benefit, received a gift, a gratification for 12.5 years of successful and faithful service. A wonderful achievement for someone with autism. Two weeks later, the UWV claimed more than the jubilary's gratification, because more than was earned in January. On a 25- or 40-year anniversary, which almost doesn't reach any Wajangere, that gratification may be retained. May I ask the Secretary of State what kind of crazy is this? Where's the human size? 50PLUS believes that this kind of discouraging rules should be removed immediately. Can I assume that this will be reversed and can the Secretary of State here mean something to Klaas-Jan, the Wajangere in question? Mr. Chairman. Sustainable work with a regular employer is far from everyone's job. Social work provision, formerly a safe haven for the most vulnerable groups in our society, is increasingly becoming a death home with a tight budget. An important shield for the weakest in the labour market disappears. In September of last year, we concluded that the employment opportunities for people on the waiting list for the social employment services in 2015 were falling significantly after the closure of new influx. Today, despite all efforts, more than 100,000 people with disabilities still do not have a suitable and, above all, sustainable job. How many of the promised new 30,000 sheltered workplaces have now been realized? What has been achieved since June last year? Is the picture of insufficient realization but a rising trend unchanged? And what is this cabinet going to do extra to offer perspective to the many thousands of people who are still on the sidelines. Last year, Berenschot investigated available and necessary resources for the Participation Act, including the WSW and new sheltered work. 50PLUS calls for a thorough response, and this can also be done in writing, to the many shortcomings and bottlenecks identified in funding. 50PLUS finds it indigestible that tens of thousands of the most vulnerable people with disabilities are still at home, thereby reducing health, well-being and opportunities for development and development. Now give these people a place they need. Modernise the social workshop into a social development company. 50PLUS believes, with the FNV, that there should be a legal right to guidance to work and guidance during work through social development companies, for example through posting. Our question is, and that concludes me, whether the Secretary of State will undertake to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Gijs de Jong, and he speaks... sorry, I meant Gijs van Dijk. Mr Gijs van Dijk speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	And on behalf of the PVV, I'm just doing it together. That could well be done on this subject, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. Here we are again. A year ago, with a day's difference, we talked about the social work provision new style, with all kinds of good motions and with the Secretary of State who said: we're going for it. Now, a year later, we have to ask ourselves, where are we? Because we are talking about a very vulnerable group of people, many of whom, as Mr De Jong and Mrs Van Brenk have said, are still at home. We cannot accept that. So the main question this morning is how many people are still at home? We have people who are entitled to a guarantee job, but also people who could get to work through sheltered work. Is there a picture of that? Because it cannot be that tens of thousands of people still do not have a job, even though that was the promise when the Act of Participation was introduced? What's going on with that? Does the Secretary of State have a picture of that? The second important point was also an important one a year ago. We must not lose the knowledge and infrastructure of social work. In fact, we need to use it and strengthen it so that we can come up with new social work companies..................................................................................................................................................................................... What we see is that the rules are working against people now. We have designed a bureaucratic system that works more against people than it thinks and really helps people and helps them on the way to a job. So what we want is a system that judges people on what they can do. Perhaps this would allow them to take a first step through the social work company to get to work, to get used to work, and then take the step towards a regular business. That's the statue. Does the Secretary of State have an image by now? And is she also going to come up with legislation to break the bureaucratic moloch that we have put down for good and make the system work for people? How's that going? Mr. Chairman. All this doesn't happen without money. The introduction of the Participation Act has also led to a cut in the social provision of employment. What is the situation with regard to social work companies? Because I still hear that many social work companies are doing well, but they do foresee that in the coming years, with less budget, they will probably also have to reject tasks. I do not think that is what we want in the Chamber. How's that budget coming? And does it take more money? Because then we might be able to get it right away with the Spring Paper this year, so that we can offer a perspective for the future of those people and those social workers in particular. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We see, and that is the movement we want to make, that those social workshops should have a new style. The Economic and Social Council has already said so and the FNBV says so. What is the image of the Secretary of State? And is it necessary to have a legal right to mentor people so that we can help people and also help social work companies new style?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Raemaekers, who speaks on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr President. It's a good thing we're talking about the Participation Act again today. It was introduced on 1 January 2015. D66 strongly supports the principles of the Participation Act. It is good that we try to place people from a distance from the labour market as much as possible with regular employers. That's good for the people themselves, because then they can just work in a normal company, but it's also good for that company and it's also good for colleagues to see: "This is someone with a distance from the labour market, that person can be there too, and that person can also work here." I think that is a very good starting point. Mr. Chairman. But not everyone can. Not everyone can work in a regular company. For this we also have the provision of sheltered work in the Participation Act. Where people were previously given an indication for the SW, for the social work company, people should now be given this indication for sheltered work. D66 also expressed concerns about this in previous debates. Is that gonna work out well enough? When we look at the research of the SCP, we see that people who were on a waiting list for a former WSW job today have fewer job opportunities. If you look a few years later at the people who were on that waiting list at the end of 2014, they have a job opportunity of 30%, where it used to be 50%. In addition, long-term employment has decreased from 65% in 2010 to 51% in 2014. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that these percentages are unacceptable, that we should do everything we can to ensure that job opportunities for people with a distance from the labour market increase? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question exactly about sheltered work. We see that 55% of the people who received a positive advice for sheltered work could also be placed in 2017 and that percentage was 65% in 2018. So we're doing much better to help people get sheltered work. We know the Secretary of State is also very busy with that simple switch, but do those criteria for sheltered work meet now? Should we not take a more critical look at this and ensure that many more positive opinions are given? What can the Secretary of State do about it? Finally, I have a question about young people. Last November, together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, I tabled a motion to put the need for guidance from young people to work or training on the agenda and to collect best practices between municipalities. How did the Secretary of State execute that motion? What has she already communicated to municipalities to ensure that all young people can get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. That was your input. First of all, a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Raemakers said it himself. There are still far too many people on the side who do not have a job, despite all the beautiful promises. In fact, job opportunities have declined. Then what do you think of the proposal to say: these people should have the right to be accompanied to work, so that we can guarantee them much better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	I believe that this right to guidance and the right to work is what we want with sheltered work. Only, apparently, that still doesn't work. But if Mr Van Dijk's question is 'we must re-introduce old SW law', then my answer would also be quite clearly 'no'. Because we hear from Cedris, from Divosa, from the VNG: "We are working on that transformation, we are working on that Participation Act. Make proposals, so that you can help more people to work within the Participation Act, but don't go back to turning the world all the way back to before 2015."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	Nobody's talking about turning the world back to before 2015. I would ask you to take action. D66 wants people to get to work. We see that this is not working properly: only 1800 sheltered workplaces, 100,000 people who are not working. Then you would be much better, what the FNV says for example, to arrange the right of guidance to a suitable workplace? What's wrong with capturing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	So I think we would do that through the sheltered work. Mr Van Dijk now mentions a figure of 1 700, if I am correct. Last year, 4,100 positive advice for sheltered work were issued. So that is already a significant increase, if I understand correctly, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to reflect on that. We have already said in this Chamber in 2017 that we need a plan on how to use sheltered work more. I know that the SP has also made proposals to that effect. I read a letter about that. After that, I see that the Secretary of State has postponed it a bit to autumn 2019. With Mr Van Dijk, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if we can speed it up a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	A nice contribution from Mr Raemakers. Compliments. Of course, there is also a cost factor if we want to develop this over the next few years. Is D66 also willing to look at budget for this year, perhaps next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	I have, of course, also heard Mr Van Dijk's contribution from the Labour Party. Congratulations on that, too. What struck me is, if a cut has already been decided, if budgets have already been indicated, that, of course, the framework has already been indicated by the previous cabinet. That's what I wanted to say in the first place. Secondly, Mr Van Dijk knows as well as anyone here that I cannot fill in the budget now. We would like to hear from the government where possible bottlenecks exist. In the spring note, we're gonna check it out. I can't anticipate that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	In conclusion, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	A less beautiful answer. Then we look back and say: that was once decided, yes. No, it's 2019 and social work companies indicate: we need a little more budget. I realize that Mr Raemakers cannot now mention an amount, but can we look for it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	We always take these signals very seriously, but if budget is the bottleneck, then we'd like to hear it from the government. Then we'd like to take a look at that. But I really have the idea that it's also about the criteria, about how the UWV measures that now and about how municipalities deal with it. Municipalities must also employ people with a distance from the labour market in their own organisation. So I have the feeling that there may be a problem with the budget, but the problem cannot just be budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	In his speech, Mr Raemakers also called for attention to be paid to young people. I started my speech about a problem a Wajanger encountered, the rules of the UWV. My question is whether D66 would like to support the 50PLUS argument to delete rules that are so troubling Wajangers in their income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	I do feel like it. If you're gonna work as a Wajanger, I think you should always get better. It's very crooked that you suddenly get less income when you start working more or going to work if you didn't first. That's a very strange situation. Work must be rewarding. That's what D66 thinks. I think this Secretary of State agrees with me. If Mrs Van Brenk makes concrete proposals to solve this better, I am sure that I am open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	A further question from Mr De Jong. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	I'd like to build on that. In this case, it was a bonus. It wasn't because that person had worked more or less. I think that person was in the service for 12 and a half years. It was an anniversary. Suddenly he got that benefit, an anniversary bonus in euros. Then it was said: you can't have that money. So it's not so much that more work has to pay. Of course, that makes sense. Now it's about an anniversary bonus. Does D66 agree that the person who's involved here should just be able to keep his bonus?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u33	I thought it was a strange rule, too. A bonus is also a kind of reward and then you want to notice something about it. I understand that questions have already been asked about this. I believe those questions were asked by the VVD. I'll take a look at Mrs. Nijkerken, too. That's right. So I'm very curious how the Secretary of State will respond to the VVD's parliamentary questions. If there is an opportunity to make sure that these young people get that bonus a little more and that they get that recognition, then I am totally in favour of that. So I'm very curious what the Secretary of State can say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u34	In conclusion, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u35	This is a bit of a questionable answer, isn't it? D66 is in the cabinet and can arrange that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u36	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u37	Will D66 arrange in the cabinet that people who have a Wajong benefit and who, for example, are working for 12 and a half years with an employer and are rewarded for that and just get a nice present, are not beaten up to it, are not cut off and are allowed to keep the money? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u38	I'm not in the cabinet. I'm in the Lower House. So I'm standing here asking my questions to the Secretary of State. I think this is a very nice point. It would be nice if we could solve it. But I'd also like to hear from the Secretary of State if there are any restrictions that might make that impossible. But if it is possible, and if the Secretary of State indicates that she sees a solution, then I would very much like to embrace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On that last point, let me say straight away that I fully agree that the Secretary of State should have a word with the UWV here. It's weird that that extra has been taken for this person! I assume we'll be told that the Secretary of State will take care of that. That anniversary bonus just needs to go to that person. Mr. Chairman. Last week I visited the Haeghe Group, the social employment services of The Hague. That's where the furniture was upholstered. That's where candles are made. It's a beautiful company, but unfortunately it's also a death home. Initially 2,300 people were working, now only 1,800 and it is getting less and less, because when it comes to the cabinet, the lights go out. Pure capital destruction, because the subsidy is being cut further and further. Welcome to the Participation Act, a mega-saving on people with disabilities. A lot of people are at home because of that. New people can still go to social work, but that is called'safe work'. The least that can happen is to arrange a decent collective agreement of sheltered work, as I said in my September motion last year. I'd like an update. The closure of the social work facility has been sold with a sales pitch about inclusive society. "People are better off outside the walls of the SW." But can people please know for themselves? Some people are very good at getting into an ordinary business, but some of them aren't. They benefit from SW's safe working environment. Does the Secretary of State dare to acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u41	There is a question from Mr Raemakers. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u42	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk that we need to resolve the bottlenecks. But if we look for example at the social workshops, which are often called'social work companies', we see that, for example, Cedris last year indicated that they have placed 8,000 people there over the last three years. So the picture that no one at all would be able to use at all is a bit of the image that Mr Van Dijk is now calling on about social services or social work companies, say Cedris' customers, is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u43	First of all, the people who are being placed there find themselves in much worse working conditions. Hence my motion to finally get a decent collective agreement for that. Secondly, I would like to say to Mr Raemakers: go and see for yourself. Go to the Haeghe Group yourself. I was there last week. That's where great work is being done, but it's slowly dying out. That's just so sad. That is why we should set up a budget to stop the severe cuts in the SW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u44	Finalizing, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u45	Indeed, I often look at such a social work company or social development company. You really do look like a change. They used to be classic social workshops, but they try to innovate more and more and they also invent new things. They work even more with business than they did before. I think that is also a positive development. Would Mr Van Dijk perhaps also have an idea of stepping up this cooperation between social workers and industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u46	They're all very nice words. Of course I'm always willing to think about good ideas, but "put your money where your mouth is." That was just said in an interruption for Mr Raemakers. They're cutting back on that sw. That was indeed decided by the previous cabinet, but that was not stopped by this cabinet. As a result, many SW facilities are now death homes. If Mr Raemakers were not just doing fine words, he would now also say: we are going to free up the budget in this cabinet to put in place that social work provision, or those social development companies, whatever you want to call it, so that the sw stops being a death home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u47	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. It was bullshit that people would get jobs. So far, only 1,800 sheltered workplaces have been created. 100,000 people are at home. The odds of getting a job have even been cut in half. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the policy has failed, I also say on the basis of the research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Office. Does the Secretary of State recognize that, too? Mr. Chairman. These are our demands. Stop that policy of extinction, stop those cuts and open the sw for all who benefit from it. Give people with disabilities the legal right to provide a social work facility, so that no one is left out. Give people the right to the guidance and work that suits them. Carry out the motions that insist on this. I refer to the Buma motion, the Gijs van Dijk motion and the motion of myself to extend access to sheltered work. Finally, Mr President. We hear everywhere that there are so many vacancies, possibly a million. That is why some parties are calling for more migrant workers. That's what D66 calls, for example. At the same time, however, over 1 million people do not have a job, including many people with disabilities. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: why more migrant workers when so many people do not have a job here? Does he share the view that priority should be given to those who are not currently employed, including those with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Renkema. He speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr President. We're talking today about a broadcast of Zembla from a year ago. It has just been mentioned: during the week of that broadcast there was also a debate in this Chamber about the social workshop. Back then, that was run by my predecessor Linda Voortman. I could almost reword her text, with the only difference being that the plan for pay dispensation is off the table. I'm not going to repeat that, of course. The Spanish artist Picasso already said about repetition: "Doing repeat means acting against the laws of the spirit." I think that's something you shouldn't want as a politician. However, much of today's debate is a repetition of moves. Mr. Chairman. I've been to a lot of social work facilities in the country lately. They're not often called that anymore. They've changed from provision to employer. They are employers with a public task; they are. It is employers who help workers to find a place in the labour market, in their own organisation or sometimes elsewhere. They are there for people with disabilities, but also for others. They are there for people who have been on long-term assistance, for people who are not going to make it on their own on our labour market or, better yet, who are not going to make it on our labour market at the moment. These companies are now also called social development companies. These social development companies are no longer isolated workshops, but become part of the regular labour market, and so are their employees. And let's start by saying: GroenLinks thinks this is a good development. It was then a controversial decision that we were very critical of, but it has also brought dynamism and innovation in the sector. The shutters have been opened and I don't think there's any degradation. I do not think that word 'destruction' does justice to this sector. Still, I'm worried. We see many good examples in the country of excellent cooperation between municipalities and social development companies, but I also get such signs. In some municipalities, this cooperation, and therefore the innovation, will not start at all, but in the meantime there will be considerable savings. This way people don't get to work and sit at home against their will. For the Chamber it is important to have a picture of the situation. Earlier, I tabled a motion to reflect on the situation of the various labour market regions. They form, at least on paper, the administrative context of working towards that inclusive labour market. What about the execution of my motion? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks continues to worry about the budgets. In the broad offensive, all kinds of new ambitions are laid down, but in the meantime the cuts are increasing. In my work visits lately, I have seen that social work companies are doing their best to work as efficiently as possible and to cut costs. But if there was any fat on the bones, it's definitely off now. That discount continues to rise and the reserves are dwindling. It is precisely now, at a time when the labour market is cramped, that this is the time to get more people to work, but then the municipalities must get butter on the fish. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan. She speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is important that as many people as possible, including those with disabilities, can get to work. In the old pre-2015 scheme, people who worked in the social employment service but had more to offer, were not sufficiently stimulated and thus actually inhibited in their development. That's a shame. It's a waste of the untapped talent of a lot of people. As I mentioned earlier, the VVD still fully supports the objective of the Participation Act, namely to get more people to work, the core being that we look at what people can rather than not. This requires tailor-made work, because not everyone develops in the same way. Tailor-made work in which the municipalities, which are very close to their inhabitants, have an important task and responsibility to properly implement this. Fortunately, I also see that a lot of municipalities, together with the social workers, have taken up this glove. They focus on the development of people and many municipalities use the knowledge and expertise of social work companies for an increasingly large target group. But there are also municipalities that haven't picked up the glove yet, or that are still developing policies. This may make it possible that people who need help and support in their development towards work do not receive enough help. Then there is an important task for the city council to address their lectures, but the Secretary of State also has a responsibility. Does the Secretary of State have enough pictures of these municipalities? What possibilities does it have to encourage these municipalities to simply implement the law? Because it can't be that people are falling apart because municipalities don't have their business in order. Last September and very recently, in February, this Chamber adopted motions on a clearer location for the SW sector in the broad offensive. I can assume that the Secretary of State is very busy carrying out the motion; I would like to hear it from her. Following the introduction of the Participation Act, it has been found that a number of schemes are very complex in practice and hinder the objective of getting as many people into work as possible. That is why I welcome the previously announced plans of the Secretary of State and the planned legislative changes in the broad offensive. In this way, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what progress she has made in drawing up these plans. After all, they must provide the solution to get as many people to work as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you. Finally, there is a question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan rightly points to municipalities that have to work, but also to the responsibility of the Secretary of State. That includes budget. We are getting signals that the budget is really going to be a problem with the social development companies. Is the VVD willing to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u55	As a room, we're watching. The Secretary of State, following her predecessor, created the Thermometer Wsw. Last time we were informed about this and at the end of 2019 we get a final state of affairs. As far as I've seen, it's pretty good. There's some financial pressure, that's right. But we also see that the new standard system has given the Gemeentefonds a huge boost. I believe that the municipalities can cope with the financial pressure by using this financial boost. So I see no reason at the moment to make additional funds available for that. But I'd like to hear it if the Secretary of State feels otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u56	In conclusion, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u57	It is precisely because of this financial pressure on municipalities that some municipalities make the choice to reject the social development company and to do so in a different way or not. In my view, this is not a desirable development. We say that we want to maintain this knowledge and infrastructure throughout the country, so there is a problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u58	Eventually, municipalities make their own assessment. We, too, supported the motion to use the knowledge and expertise as much as possible, but it is up to municipalities to make a choice. What matters to me is that in every municipality or region there is at least a place where people can develop. Whether it is through the old or the converted social work companies, or whether it is being implemented in a different way, I find it less important. As long as there are places where people can go through that development. I really like the way in which this is done in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u59	I come back to the point of the Wajanger and his bonus because of a twelve-and-a-half-year anniversary. I saw the VVD's questions. He was outraged by that, too. Does Mrs Nijkerken therefore think that we should take a critical look at all the rules that can prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u60	I can be very brief about that: yes, I think so. In fact, I have also tabled a motion with Mr Peters of the CDA on this matter earlier. That motion saw not specifically on the part of the Wajong, but on the wage costs subsidy and the one-off extras that you might get. I have also asked the Secretary of State in my questions to include this issue in the simplification of the Wajong legislation, which I hope will also be coming to the Chamber shortly, and to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u61	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u62	If we get an unsatisfactory response from the Secretary of State, I would like to ask the VVD if we could look together at the motion that 50PLUS has prepared on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'm always very willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. You were at the end of your input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bruins. He speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr. Chairman. An example: a small-scale independent fruit grower in the north of the country. His wife works at the news shop. He works with a few target groups on the land. He also has a vegetable garden for the food bank. He gives target groups a job. He picks them up every day, with the car back and forth. He brings them home in the afternoon. He even gives them a living and a living sometimes. Sometimes it's young people with a history of drugs or a criminal past. He gets them on the road and gives them their lives back. This entrepreneur receives from the UWV only people with the heaviest indication, with complex problems. He doesn't get people with a lighter indication, because they are put to work at the municipality's SW company. A second example is an entrepreneur in a medium-sized town in the east of the country. He wants to give eight target groups from the local community a long-term job, at least for a year. A desk's gonna look for him. Contact is being made with the UWV. No, they don't have anyone available in that place. All they have on offer are eight employees of the SW company in the provincial capital, 35 kilometers away. They're gonna be posted and they're gonna go back and forth every day with a van 35 kilometers back, 35 kilometers back. There's no one in that place. A third example is a passionate social entrepreneur in the middle of the country. She had a company that, except for herself and another, runs entirely on people from the target group. That company went bankrupt because the municipality did not want to supply people with disabilities, so production to customers could not be guaranteed. Immediately upon bankruptcy, two of its employees are taken away by the SW-company of a municipality down the road, making a start impossible. She's got another company now, but she's running into the same problems again. She won't get through to the city because she'd be an uncertain party. The municipality prefers to place new employees at its own SW company, while SW company has much bigger financial problems. Mr. Chairman. What the hell is going on here? I'm asking the Secretary of State. What the hell is going on here? These examples go against the spirit of the Participation Act, whose aim is to accommodate people as much as possible with regular employers. We have employers here who want to, but they have the feeling that they only have obstacles and blockades. What are we gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, sheltered work. We see that municipalities find it difficult to create sheltered appropriate workplaces with regular employers. This is why many municipalities shelter people at the social workshops, often under worse working conditions than the people who already worked there. How does the Secretary of State view this? Does she think this is a good solution? Can the SW companies indeed be the place to shape sheltered work and meet the major challenge of getting to the 30,000 sheltered workplaces? Mr. Chairman. Many aldermen, many municipalities and the UWV are doing their best, but entrepreneurs find that they are very often unable to get to people. What are we gonna change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Peters, who is speaking on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I see Mr Van Dijk walking to the interrupting microphone to ask if I still think the demolition of an infrastructure is a stupid idea, I say: yes, I still think that is a stupid idea. That's what I've been helping you with. Mr. Chairman. Several motions have been tabled, including by the CDA. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore what is the situation with regard to the implementation of these motions. What have they achieved and what action has the Secretary of State taken in the meantime? Mr. Chairman. The CDA is for real work, work that generates money and not just costs subsidies. We have to be honest that this was sometimes too common in the old SW. The CDA is for work that is as inclusive as possible: with ordinary colleagues, focused on growth opportunities and on what someone can do. On Monday I took a so-called Harrie Help training, a training of CNV Young people for people who accompany other people with disabilities in the workplace. With a little attention and good will so much more can be done. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of further rolling out these and similar trainings? Mr. Chairman. One month after the PVV's request for debate last year, the IBN group from Noordoost-Brabant wrote: "Almost 3,800 people at work, several nice new initiatives and a positive financial result. IBN can look back on a successful year. And the 11 municipalities in the working area of IBN benefit from this maximum. In total, as owner of IBN, they receive almost 1.3 million euros of dividend." That's good, but it's not like that everywhere. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she has an overview of this. Mr. Chairman. The realisation of sheltered workplaces has so far been completely inadequate. A lap along the fields teaches me three points that we have talked about before here in this house. 1. Do we perhaps have too strict criteria for sheltered work? 2. Perhaps a fallback guarantee is missing; sheltered work as a safety net. 3. Perhaps there is a fear of municipalities that they might find themselves in financial difficulties in this area in the future. The Secretary of State has made commitments in the past on these experienced bottlenecks. My question is therefore simple: what is the situation? Mr. Chairman. Finally. For the CDA, working is more than acquiring an income. It gives meaning to life. It creates social contacts and the feeling of being important. That is why the CDA has also launched the basic job as an idea. A basic job is a guaranteed job for all long-term welfare workers. This is a part-time job, so that there is time to perform family care or other care tasks. This is a job that earns considerably more per hour than the minimum wage. This is a job that is based on what people can contribute to this society and their own happiness and that will put an end to the reality that we leave people on welfare for years and years without any perspective and with barely enough money to make ends meet. It's not called "social," it's called "let people cook in their soup." Mr. Chairman. The CDA will soon come up with an initiative in this area. I'd like to discuss that in this house. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you. A question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr Peters of the CDA begins by saying that it is important that sheltered workplaces are realized and that it is important that the Secretary of State should use them. You should definitely do that. But whatever you have to do if you really take people seriously, is to keep your existing sheltered workplaces at least. Now I have here a motion from the PVV calling for at least the existing sheltered workplaces to be maintained. The CDA is against that. How is it consistent that the CDA on the one hand says that sheltered workplaces are important and on the other it says that we don't have to keep them, but that they have to join them? What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u70	That's actually pretty simple. You can use sheltered workplaces in different ways. You can do that in the old SW. That can be done very well; in different places in the Netherlands they do the same. But you can do that in other places. I have seen examples where people work sheltered within, for example, a hospital, just as a regular employer, where a sheltered workplace is realized. In principle, this is about municipalities and it should work, but let us check whether those workplaces are actually there, whether they are offered where they should be and whether there are perhaps too strict criteria or other things that hinder them; perhaps there is fear of finance. But it's not like a sheltered workplace can only be realized within an old SW setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. De Jong, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u72	I'm not saying that at all. I'm just saying that people are currently working in a sheltered working environment. Those people worry and see all kinds of changes coming along. In any case, the PVV calls for those existing sheltered workshops to remain and not be removed or whatever, which would require people to change. Then, of course, we must also ensure that these targets are met. That's two loose things. The CDA just votes against it. So, here in the plenary room, the CDA is making nice talk, but it is voting against. What is it? Do you stand up for those people or not? And are you saying that existing sheltered workplaces cannot be removed and should continue to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u73	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u74	Or are you saying that it can also be filled in in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u75	No, what Mr De Jong claims is not so. It's very simple what the CDA is against. If you have a sheltered workplace now and if you need it, it won't be removed and we won't put the gentleman or the lady at home. I have said and I repeat that a sheltered workplace does not have to be in the setting of an old SW company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u76	That's what the motion says!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u77	No, the motion doesn't say that. The motion says that where people are now sitting in a sheltered workplace within a SW company, you can't do anything about it. I'm just not for that. There's gotta be another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u78	Following on from this on sheltered work, it is clear that the CDA identifies a number of bottlenecks and calls for a response from the Secretary of State, but the CDA also says that it does not have to do so in a social work facility and that it can do so in all kinds of other places. I filed a motion on the warranty jobs a while ago. I held that motion. Of these guarantee jobs we have said: do 125,000 and of sheltered work 30,000. My proposal in that motion is to add that sheltered work, including to put all employers in position. I'm curious about the CDA's opinion at the moment on that motion being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u79	I think that motion was held because I didn't quite understand her. I'm afraid that's still true. I really want to look at the addition of that, but I thought there were hooks and eyes on it that I don't see one-two-three. So I really want to look at it and anything that helps, I will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u80	It's a little complicated to have a debate about a motion being held here. I will give Mr Renkema the opportunity to conclude on the second part of the interruption. Perhaps I could suggest that we have a coffee together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u81	I don't have a follow-up question. I would like to invite the CDA to look with me at the proposal and remove any uncertainties, because I think that will meet the concerns of the CDA about sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u82	Good, and coffee's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u83	Look at this! Finally, I think there is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u84	That was a wonderful intro by Mr Peters: the closure of a social work facility is, according to Mr Peters, oildom. I couldn't agree more. The only question is, what are those words worth? I took a look in the country. In the Achterhoek, Utrecht, Venlo, Breda, Zutphen and in many other places SW facilities are under severe pressure or are already closed. What are those words worth if you don't do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr Van Dijk makes my words a little bit different and then makes them a caricature. What I said and what I think is that we all wanted to turn the old SW, as it was, into a social development company. As far as I am concerned, you have to maintain the knowledge, the skills and the people for that. That's different from buildings and maybe a company. If you didn't, I'm thinking, why are you tearing down that knowledge and building it up somewhere else? This is different from the fact that you may close an old SW company and organise it in a different way. That would be the answer. We have also had an example of a company that was on an industrial site and where people may have performed something below their level in retrospect. I think there's a whole other way to do that. If that is to be closed, it will close, but that knowledge, that infrastructure and those people just need to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u86	Thank you. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u87	But that knowledge and expertise is also lost in the places I mentioned and that is such a shame. The least you can do, if you stand here for your powerful words, is say: we as House of Representatives will do everything to prevent that knowledge and expertise from being lost. That is also stated in the Buma motion, but nothing is happening in practice, at most an investigation that we have to wait for for for a very long time. It would be so wonderful if you would say that we are going to use our budget to ensure that this knowledge and expertise is preserved. Or are these just empty words?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr Jasper van Dijk rightly says that the CDA has tabled a motion on this matter. We can take initiatives and we control the government. I just asked what's going on. I'm just waiting for the answer to that question. Mr. Van Dijk always makes it beautiful. He says there's a motion but I haven't seen anything yet, so are you willing to move money there? That is far too short and Mr Van Dijk himself knows that very well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that it will take up to ten minutes to prepare. I would ask you to be somewhat flexible so that we can resume the sitting as soon as the Secretary of State is ready. I'm suspending the meeting for a maximum of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u90	May I ask the members to take their place again? I asked the Secretary of State to be brief and concise in the light of the time. I must say that the time is limited to concluding this debate before noon. We are aware that this is a subject on which we can, of course, debate for a very long time. The Secretary of State will say something about that as well. I propose a maximum of two interruptions, but they really must be shorter and more concise, because I assume that it is also your wish to conclude the debate at 12 noon and not to continue it at a later date. May I give the floor to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Chamber for the input. Perhaps procedurally in advance: this debate has of course been requested a while ago and in the meantime a lot has happened. We have launched the broad offensive; we have also had debates on it and motions have been tabled on it. A lot of these things are now in progress. Several tables discuss the issues that are still under discussion today. I expect to be able to inform the Chamber in May. In any case, this will mean that I will deal with a number of matters in a procedural manner, in the knowledge that the issues raised by Members of Parliament are also on those tables. So this is the right time to add a number of things. This is indeed a very important subject for me and I can really talk about it for hours, but can I say that the number of words I have devoted to it is inversely proportional to my enthusiasm on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u92	With a view to interrupting, will the answer go in blocks or will you reply in total?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u93	I'm gonna try to do it in its entirety, but I'm gonna put the emphasis on social work and sheltered work. I shall then turn to a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u95	I would like to mark the broad offensive for a moment, because that is where we come from; that is an important point after the debate has been requested. We have seen that too many people are on the sidelines; I am talking about people who want to have a place in the labour market and who we also desperately need, people who, in the jargon, have a distance from the labour market or a disability. They, too, deserve a place in this labour market, which should be as inclusive as possible. The four pillars in which we are discussing today are: we want to take care of employers so that they hire people; we want to make work pay when you go to work; we need to bring employers and employees together; and, last but not least, it must be sustainable work. As far as I am concerned, the role that SW companies and social development companies can play here in the Chamber is at the heart of this matter again today. All the themes that have come through here today, I can actually understand, because at the moment there is a lot going on and that is actually happening in two ways. The themes that are also of interest to the SW sector are discussed at different tables of the broad offensive. I also say to Mr De Jong that these are indeed conversations. But it's conversations between partners that are going to have to do it together. We are on the eve of the roll-over from the planning phase to the implementation phase. In this sense, I hope that the letter that I can send you in May will provide real practical tools for all these partners to carry out this broad offensive. Then who's at the table? Of course, municipalities, employers' organisations and employees' organisations, as well as client organisations, Divosa and Cedris are at the table to discuss all these issues with each other. At the same time, the shop remains open, because jobs must be created within the framework of the job agreement. And sheltered work must be realized. And indeed, there are still people on the waiting list. Which means the store's gonna stay open in the meantime. I am very grateful to all those partners and certainly to Cedris for taking their role and talking at those tables about what can be done better. That means that the motions you have asked for are currently in progress. I can also go into this further in the communication on the broad offensive in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u96	This raises a very short question from Mr Gijs van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u97	Perhaps a question about the start of such a reconnaissance. Do we have anyone in the picture? Of course, I have a lot of concerns about that. Do municipalities have an image of anyone who has a chance at a warranty job, at sheltered work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u98	I dare to say 'yes' to that, because I see that in those labour market regions not only the UWV, the municipalities and employers are now on the table, but also, for example, the vso- and pro-schools are also on the infrastructure. This means that children coming from school, for example, are directly covered by this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u99	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u100	It is precisely the young people who come from special practical education that we sometimes lose. Because how can we follow them? It is good that these schools are affiliated, but because these young people are no longer receiving benefits, it is difficult to follow them. Is there any new way to grab these young people and guide them to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u101	This is one of the elements that are important and for which we have also started Perspective at Work, with partnerships between employers, municipalities and education. The MBO Council is also part of this, precisely to address this problem. I must also say that the work is in progress and I can give you more information in May. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber asked for a number of concrete figures, including the number of people currently working in a sheltered workplace. At the end of 2016, 313 people worked in a sheltered workplace, at the end of September 2018 2,200. This is still lagging behind the number we have established in the Ministerial Arrangement, namely 4,600 at the end of 2018. I have therefore promised you during the budget debate that I will address this state of affairs in a letter this spring and the question of how we can improve these figures. That letter comes as soon as possible after the Mayreces. Then I will also take the final figures for 2018. And then it's not just about the figures, it's about the context. I am therefore looking at the criteria that Mr Raemakers and Mr Peters asked for. The latter, which looks at the criteria, is covered by the evaluation, which, as has been said, will also come in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u102	A brief question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yes, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause I'm a little stuck. This debate was requested a year ago. The Secretary of State says that a lot has changed in the meantime. And we'll be receiving letters in a few weeks. So this debate is actually coming too early with regard to the figures and the things that have been put forward here. What are the obstacles? And what are you running into, which means that you cannot inform the Chamber about the 2018 figures today, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr De Jong is quite right to make a point. After last April's request for debate, of course, we have done a great deal. Motions have also been tabled on this subject, and I told the Chamber that I could give a ruling on this in May. In that sense, therefore, you could say that this debate is coming a little early. On the other hand, I also think it is very valuable to include all the signals I am getting today in the last round before we decide on that broad offensive. And when it comes to figures: the cold laying down of numbers is one thing, but the Chamber rightly also asks for a context, and often also for improvement plans. Of course, it takes some time. And of course, we're going to ask municipalities that do well: how do you do well, what can others learn from? And where things aren't going well, we ask: is there any reason for that? I need time for that, and that's why I can't put those numbers down from one moment to the next. But I do indicate that 2,200 places have been realized by the end of September 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. De Jong, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'm in a real dilemma right now, because those numbers are extremely important. And if you say that we are going to get figures in May, I am afraid again, because, of course, we still need to have the opportunity to talk about the context of those figures. And these kind of lists, in which we really lag behind, are just shocking and not in favour of the target group. Can the Secretary of State promise that she will come forward with that information at least before the May recess? Then we can take a good look at that in the recess and perhaps talk about it ourselves in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u107	If I could, I'd love to. But I'm afraid that's not possible. I'm really doing this as soon as possible, but it will be after the Mayreces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u108	Before the procedure, I would point out that once the information is available, it could still be put on the agenda directly through the procedural meeting. But that's up to you. A brief question from Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u109	These figures are indeed very important, but the evaluation of sheltered work coming in the autumn is also very important. I would like that information before we have the budget of SZW here again. So can the Secretary of State simply promise that the evaluation of sheltered work will speed up so that it can be sent to the Chamber before the budget is discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yeah, I'm telling you. It's scheduled for September. And in the direction of Mr De Jong, I would like to say on this point that in the evaluation, which will come in the autumn, I will also go into the waiting list with which we will actively call people for sheltered work. That is a commitment I can make. Specific questions have also been asked about the realisation of the job agreement. The figures will be published on 25 April. There is still some work to be done on this too. Without going into specific figures, I can tell you that I have been able to take a first look at this and that I think it looks good for the development we are pursuing together, namely that we are creating jobs in the government and in the market sector, and that the trend we have set in motion before must continue. So I'll inform you about that April 25th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u111	A brief question from Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u112	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Does it make any difference that we've had the discussion that we're going to remove the boundary between business and government? Is that difference still visible, or is it just one big pot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u113	No, that difference can still be seen in 2018, because the plans that are being worked out on the basis of the motion that calls for that distinction to be lifted are also contained in rules that come to the Chamber around the broad offensive. That is something I would like to discuss with the Chamber, but the figures for 2018 still show the distinction. Moreover, I remain of the opinion that the government is at stake and must get to work. A number of initiatives are also in the pipeline. Furthermore, we asked about the realization of workplaces for people on the waiting lists. In fact, this is a response to the SCP report that has been published earlier. I have also responded to it in writing before, also in the knowledge that sometimes it could take some time for someone on a waiting list to get to work under the old SW's. This was an interim report and there will also be a final report. I think it is very important for people to be able to work and I also feel a great responsibility for people on this waiting list, because they have been on that waiting list for a long time. That is why I think it would be good to look at the results of the job agreement later on and also to see how these people are doing with sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr Raemakers with a short question. You will also have a short period of time, I say to all Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u115	But at this point... We are used to looking at this figure through job appointments and sheltered work, but the research of the SCP also looked at the people on the waiting list, where there is 20% less job opportunities, which we all have to find unacceptable. Does the Secretary of State also intend to make specific reference to that percentage? Or does she keep it on job deals and sheltered work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u116	For me, it is a shared ambition with the Chamber, in the sense that it is unacceptable for so many people to be sidelined. The broad offensive has just been launched to ensure that we finally agree on how to do it. As far as I am concerned, it is good to keep an eye on this particular group within the number of people who have been on the waiting list for a long time, and it is important that we work for them in particular. What's bothering me is to keep digging out very specific groups. I think it is important that we work together to ensure that people can get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u117	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u118	We can't agree an indicator for this particular group that was already on the WSW waiting list at the end of 2014?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u119	No, that's difficult indeed. I can't. I come to Mr Jasper van Dijk's question on finance. Mr Gijs van Dijk also drew attention to this issue. The next thermometer will appear at the end of 2019. At the beginning of 2020, I can give it to the Chamber. I realize that we often have discussions here about the organisations and budgets. Where municipalities have an important role to play in achieving an inclusive labour market, they do so with different budgets. I am talking about money for the SW companies and sheltered work, wage costs subsidies and the BUIG budgets. These are budgets that are not meant for booths but that can be abandoned and deployed in municipalities to ensure that people who need support can get to work. In addition, the accres has been increased. It is my belief that all of this together provides municipalities with the means to do this properly. I would like to zoom out of just the discussion on a budget for a part of the subject in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u120	In my term I mentioned the example of the Haeghe Group. There are fewer and fewer people who can work within the SW. It's some kind of extinction structure. There is a loud call to stop at least those continuing cuts that are causing that extinction policy. Is the Secretary of State prepared to stop these ongoing cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u121	I am going to say it anyway, even though I know how Mr Jasper van Dijk means it, because we have a lot of interrupting debates on this. But I really have trouble with the word "death house construction," when even Cedris, the industry organisation, the mouthpiece, says: "84% of our companies are also used as employers or as mediators for new groups." There's a lot going on. There's a huge transition going on. I think it is particularly important that the people who need a sheltered environment get it too. And in this specific example of The Hague, the municipality itself took over. So it's at the bottom of the line that people who need support get it, too, and have a safe workplace. That's different from the organizational form. I'm also talking to Cedris about this, for example. They see a lot of different forms, all over the country. I think we're going through a huge development together. So I'd still like to distance myself from that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u122	In conclusion, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u123	But also Cedris says that things aren't going well in a lot of places. I mentioned a list of places: Breda, Zutphen, Utrecht, The Hague. It's not going well there. Let me put it this way. The Secretary of State comes with all these letters. Does it exclude the possibility of involving the question of the budget? Or does she say that there is 10 billion budget surplus, so could there be some money for this vulnerable group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u124	I am working on the Jasper van Dijk motion with enthusiasm. We also had this discussion and I said the necessary about it at the time. I think you should always have an open look. At the moment, I do not see the need to change the financial framework. By the way, if you look at a situation like in Breda, you can see that 94% of people are working there in a place with a regular employer. So we should not narrow the discussion down to just the question: how many people still work within the walls of a former sw company? Let's see how we can harness the knowledge and infrastructure of the sw companies, and at the same time focus on whether people are at work where they come to their senses and where they can take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mr Gijs van Dijk with his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u126	Well, I'll go along with the Secretary of State. Apart from budget, is it possible for municipalities to choose not to do this at all anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u127	Municipalities cannot make the choice to refuse support to people who are entitled to this support. So municipalities have a responsibility to the people. Municipalities have a freedom in their choice how they organize it. Many municipalities choose to do so either by maintaining or transforming their SW business. But there lies the policy freedom of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u128	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u129	So at the moment when a municipality would make that choice, we get these worrying signals from time to time; I don't know if they're always right, then the State Secretary can point out to that municipality that the municipality needs to maintain that knowledge and expertise to help those people on the left or right. Every municipality in the Netherlands has to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u130	If someone is under the sw, then the municipality has that obligation. And whether you organize that at a classic sw company or within the walls of the town hall or by an appointment with a regular employer... This may vary, but the obligation to the employee exists. Mr. Chairman. If I look at the questions that have been asked about social employment, social development and sheltered work, then I have to say that some of these issues are quite rightly taken into account. For the sake of time, I refer to the letter I will send to the Chamber at the end of May. I have a number of other questions to which I would like to give the Chamber an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u131	I am now giving Mr Renkema the floor for an interruption, and I am saving the rest of the interruptions before the end of the first term of the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u132	I recognize the picture that it is very different in the country how municipalities deal with this. I have tabled a motion on the labour market regions. The same goes for that: sometimes they are a little paper tigers and sometimes they work hard. I also asked: what is the state of play in the implementation of the motion? A brief procedural answer is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u133	It's a motion we're making. It is also very useful to take those photographs in those labour market regions. We also pay attention to the role of the sw companies, because I just want to have an idea of what the variety is in the execution. That reconnaissance's on its way, and it's gonna be ready this summer. Mrs Van Brenk and, following her, a number of others have asked for the anniversary gratification. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan has indeed submitted written questions on this subject, which I will of course answer. Here I indicate that I do not know the specific situation. It is difficult to deal with an individual situation. What I would like to point out is that it is of course very harsh if you have to turn in a little extra right away. There are many things in our benefits, especially in the Wajong, which are very difficult to explain. If I drop the word "saw-tooth-systematic" in this room and in this company, you know what I mean. The rest of the Netherlands don't know that. Take it from me that this means you're gonna be able to earn a little more, but you're gonna get a little less on your tab. That kind of complexity is in there. That's why we want to simplify the Wajong. I don't think these things can be explained. The legislative proposals are currently before the Council of State. I hope to be able to send them to the Chamber as soon as possible so that we can discuss this issue with each other and hopefully resolve it. I was asked about the state of play of Mr Bruins and Mr Raemakers' motion on vulnerable young people. Examination of the inspection shows that although support for young people is improving, there are still concerns. Together with the ministries of VWS and OCW, I have asked the NJi to collect good examples, to open them up to municipalities and to spread them further. Examples are also disseminated in the context of the project on working in health care. By the way, I also discuss this issue when I am with aldermen, when I talk to the MBO Council or at working visits to the vso and pro. So this subject comes back in several places. Mr Bruins had a number of striking examples of people walking into walls that we hope to settle with the broad offensive. I do not have the illusion that we will never see anyone run into the limitations of organizations again. I would at least say, have people report to the Employers' Service Point. If there's an entrepreneur who says he's got jobs, it'd be crazy if you couldn't give people that place. So I would say: let people report to the Employers' Service Point, which is specifically intended for this purpose, and let this also be the measuring bar for the plans of the broad offensive. We can then see if we actually solve these kinds of problems. What I find very good to see is that there are many initiatives in the country where employers and municipalities sit down with The Normalest Case. They look together to see where bottlenecks lie and whether they can actually solve them. I am becoming even more motivated by the examples of solutions you mentioned. Mr Peters has done a Harrie training. That's jargon, too. It's a very nice training to get people with disabilities into the workplace. I think it's a very valuable training. I had a session with some aldermen the other day. A number of aldermen had also done this training. In any case, I will also pay attention to it in the Gemeente nieuws. This is also brought to the attention of the practical days. I'm a fan, too. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you, I say in the direction of the Secretary of State. There are still a number of interruptions. If they are not necessary and can be taken into account in the second term, I would prefer that. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Peters. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u135	Nice Harrie training. That was a very valuable training. But what I was concerned with was: very often when placements are made from vso or pro at a learning firm, or when people get regular work, things go wrong in the guidance. That is one of the biggest failure factors, but also success factors. That's why I made that proposal. I don't necessarily have to advertise for CNV Young People, even if it doesn't hurt. I would like to ask whether there is any specific scope for this guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u136	Indeed: guidance to and from work, but especially during work is a very important part of the broad offensive. That can be customization, too. I am very glad that the clients and the client organizations are at the table and are making a huge effort to do so. I see the importance of this. This subject, too, has a solid place in the broad offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u137	I asked if I could perhaps get a written response to the Berenschot report, with the bottlenecks in it. If I can get that commitment for the next debate, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u138	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u139	That's a good promise. Thank you. I would like to thank both the Secretary of State and the Members for their cooperation in dealing with this first term in a short time. I fully realize that the subject would really deserve more time. The next item is the second term of office. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. I'm disappointed anyway. I had hoped that we could get more information today about how many people are actually at home, what has been done in practice over the past year, and how we can really ensure that people who were previously entitled to a place at a social workplace, for example, just get to work, not only because those people want to do so themselves but also because it is simply very desirable to get these people to work. Having said that, I am still expecting those figures towards the Chamber in the very short term. That's what the Secretary of State announced. Then we will be the first to speak to the Secretary of State about this. The aim should be to get these people to work, not to have long discussions and debates about it here. Something really needs to change. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain existing sheltered workplaces in any form whatsoever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u141	I really hope that this motion will be adopted so that many people who are still in uncertainty will not have to be in that uncertainty in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Chairman. I understand that the Secretary of State cannot deal with an individual matter, but I hope she sees this motion as a support for her willingness. This motion has been signed by all the spokesmen in this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the deduction of gratifications and possible special pay payments from the (Wajg) benefit is particularly demotivating for people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a thorough review of the harmonisation of the Wajong and the development of the broad offensive, legislation and regulation in this area, and to eliminate as far as possible the motivating effects of legislation and regulation for people with disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Brenn, Peters, Renkema, Nijkerken-de Haan, Gijs van Dijk, Jasper van Dijk, Bruins and De Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u144	My final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to halt cuts in WSW and to transform social employment provision into full-fledged social development companies;]] [[calls on the government to invest in the right to work guidance and the right to work guidance through social development companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. You can call me at any time of the day, night or weekend to talk about this. Or in a recess. I'm coming because this subject is so important. This is about people who deserve perspective. They deserve perspective on the way to work, on the road to full participation. So it is incredibly important that we discuss this again today. The world has changed since a year ago. The Secretary of State is absolutely right about that. A broad offensive has been launched. I can see that the Secretary of State is also keen on this. But this time I would like to call on the Secretary of State again to speed, speed, speed. Because every day people stand by and sit at home is a day too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr. Chairman. We had a good debate. I am very pleased that the evaluation of sheltered work will come in September and that it will be for the budget. Then we can really steer it with the budgetary treatment. I am also very pleased with what the Secretary of State has said about young people falling between ships and that the good examples are also shared through the Dutch Youth Institute and through municipalities. I'm all very happy about that. I have one more concern. Those are the people who were on the waiting list for the WSW at the end of 2014 and whose job opportunities have decreased. I understand from the Secretary of State today that it is not possible to make a separate indicator for that. I understand that, too, because, of course, we have the Jobs Agreement. We have sheltered work and we all have very good monitoring. But I would like to ask: what can we do for this group when it comes to sheltered work? Can the Secretary of State also say that it might be easier for this group to go to sheltered work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you. Mr. Jasper van Dijk, your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr. Chairman. Talks don't fill holes. A lot of fine words cannot hide the fact that social services are being cut down sharply. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that continued cuts in social work systems pose serious problems and threaten their survival;]] [[calls on the government to stop cutting back so that social services can continue their good work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u150	I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Economic and Social Council (SER) recommends that the knowledge and infrastructure of SW companies should not be lost;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain a country-wide network of social work facilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Renkema waived his second term. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan for her second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u152	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her reply. In my opinion, we conclude that there is still a lot of work to be done and that there is a need for permanent attention to have and get as many people working as possible. My question is: is the Secretary of State talking to municipalities that are still behind? I would like to hear confirmation of that, because people who need the support should also receive that support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you. I call Mr Eppo Bruins, or Mr Bruins. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. We are indeed talking here about the most normal things and the most normal people, with special talents. I have one motion because the Secretary of State referred to the employer service point. This is mostly run by UWV, municipalities and the SW sector. This can sometimes lead to unnecessary competition. I'd like to avoid that with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that expertise and experience of and with SW companies should be maintained and used;]] [[noting that there are social entrepreneurs throughout the country who, as a regular employer, partly want and can take over the role of SW companies;]] [[noting that lack of participants is a common reason why social entrepreneurs cannot turn enough turnover for sound business operations;]] [[noting that municipalities sometimes choose to give priority to their own SW business, thus creating unnecessary competition and giving social entrepreneurs no chance to grow;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the Renkema motion (34352, No. 118) how to prevent regular employers from employing no or insufficient participants because SW companies are given priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29817-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Peters. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Secretary of State, for the reply and the commitments made during this debate, which was indeed good. The goal is to get as many people as possible to work normally with normal colleagues, a good daily use and a good and meaningful life. That's what we all want. Things have been set in motion; a lot of things are going well, some things aren't either. I must say that I am incredibly proud of several former SW companies, where I have been. I've seen what a huge struggle and tilting they've been through to transform indeed, whether I call Weener XL or the IBN group, I'll call them anyway. So it's possible. We talked about the importance of guidance on the job. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to pay close attention to this in the broad offensive. But according to the CDA, there are still problems in getting people to work. Working doesn't pay for everyone. People aren't found. That is why once again: the CDA comes up with an initiative on the basic job and that is where we come to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you. Then we have reached the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. I am looking in the direction of the Secretary of State to see if she can proceed with a judgment on the motions tabled. I see that's the case. I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The answer to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan's question is: yes, I will. Then I'll get to the motions. Mr De Jong's motion for a resolution 147 I must advise against, because the sheltered working indication also depends on the personal situation. We also want to encourage the development of people. New sheltered work has to come, but it doesn't have to be a terminal. The motion in part No. 148 is a very clear appeal from the Chamber, so I am happy to give it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 149 I do not recommend, because it is the policy freedom of municipalities how they do this. For the motion in part No. 150 is the same thing I'm telling you. This has to do with the fact that the financial thermometer will come at the end of 2019, on which I hope to inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2020. When it comes to Mr Jasper van Dijk's second motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u159	The motion in part No. 151.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u160	Yes. The motion in part No. 151 I also advise against, because that is also policy freedom of the municipality. The motion in part No. 152 I give a ruling to the Chamber and I would also like to involve myself in the implementation of the Renkema motion. I hope that I will be able to inform the Chamber of what the picture looks like a little later than the evaluation. So I like to include them and then the verdict is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u161	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the second term on the part of the cabinet. This brings to an end the debate on the consequences of the closure of the social workshops. Once again, I would like to thank you very much. This applies both to the Secretary of State and to your cooperation in concluding this debate in time for the next debate. I thank the Secretary of State and her support, I thank the Members of Parliament, I thank the people here in the gallery for their interest and the people who have followed the debate in a different way. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-3.u162	I can tell you that we will be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
