ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the report by the Sorgdrager committee on the fipronil crisis. There are two directors present: the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Minister for Medical Care. Welcome aboard. We have many speakers today. I propose three interruptions in two, with a brief closing remark. Nobody squeaks and we're gonna do it like this. Everyone has a four-minute speaking time. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. She is the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Sorgdrager committee for the thorough research report and the considerable work they have done on it. There is a report with firm conclusions, of which we can learn a lot. Business, regulators, government: they've all made mistakes. Food safety wasn't central. The surveillance has failed. The response to the fipronil crisis was insufficient. I am pleased that all those involved have indicated that they support the conclusions of the committee and will adopt the recommendations. First of all something about the private quality systems IKB Egg and IKB PSB. According to the committee, there are major shortcomings and these quality systems do not provide sufficient guarantees for food safety. In the meantime, have all the recommendations been taken up by industry? And how are the ministers and their departments involved? The Committee sees an important role for private quality systems in food safety, supporting government supervision. At the same time, no quality system of Dutch soil met the criteria of Ketenborging.nl in 2018. How do ministers intend to ensure that private quality systems comply with this? The aim must be that all quality systems are registered. Will the Ministers also use the general binding declaration instrument to ensure that all companies are genuinely involved? The NVWA also receives strong criticism from the committee. For months, this organisation has not sufficiently guaranteed food safety. They did not take action until the Belgian supervisor came forward with a report. When it comes to the improvements, the ministers consistently refer in their letter to the NVWA 2020 pathway, but I have the impression that it is all going very slowly and that certainly not all the recommendations for 2020 have been implemented. I'd like a response. In the meantime, is the NVWA prepared for a crisis like this? I'd like a response. The Committee appoints different roles for the NVWA. The NVWA is a key element in the monitoring of food safety, should promote behavioural change of companies and provide information on risks to food safety. In addition, the NVWA has a policy role, as it has to correct shortcomings in the supervisory system. The Committee therefore concludes that our country's food safety policy is too heavily dependent on NVWA. I would like a response from both ministers. That brings me to the question: what role does the government have in ensuring food safety? What are the Ministers' views on this? The Sorgblader Committee believes that the government is responsible and should work to ensure a better link between the commitment of the business community and the supervisory tasks. I agree. How does the cabinet intend to shape this? One of the recommendations concerns the placing of the NCEA with the NVWA. My group also believes that there should be no overkill to control bodies, but I note that the sector is committed to the NCEA, for example because it has a place in trade agreements. I'd like a response from the cabinet to that. A major criticism of the approach was that there was no European level playing field on the European market. In other countries work was carried out with different standards than in the Netherlands. What is the status of the European approach to food safety? Should eggs from other countries meet the same criteria as our eggs? Mr. Chairman. The fipronil crisis was a year and a half ago. There's nothing left in the papers. Society seems to have forgotten. That does not apply to poultry farmers. I talked to some of them last week. Fortunately, they are doing well now with themselves and their businesses, but it is also vulnerable. They had to borrow money to get on top of it. Nothing else needs to happen. It is also emotional, especially for poultry farmers, but also for communities. There's still lawsuits going on. Can the Ministers promise that no invoices will be sent in any case at present in these court cases? And what about the investigation into alternative drugs for blood lice? Because it's still a tragedy if it hits your company. Mr. Chairman. My group is proud that the sector has put its feet behind it and that hard work has already come to an end. We have also started an improvement process with each other around the NVWA. We get half-yearly reports of that. Those are all good developments. Let us work together to ensure that poultry farming has a good future in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Geurts as the second speaker on the side of the Chamber. I can imagine that there are people who don't know what the NVWA is for a while. That's the Dutch Food and Service Authority. You're gonna hear it a lot. Go ahead, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mr. Chairman. In the summer of 2017, we were shocked by a major crisis. Partly because of the lack of good communication by the NVWA, I think back to the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, there was great uncertainty for consumers. Family companies that had their stables cleaned by the company that illegally worked with fipronil were emotionally and financially affected. Mr. Chairman. A better functioning of the quality system for eggs or NVWA could have prevented this crisis. Hard work is being done to improve the quality system, the IKBEI. To what extent is the retail involved and contributes to this, as advised by the Sorgblader Committee, I ask the Minister. A general binding declaration is needed to strengthen IKB EI. Will the ministers honour them? Mr. Chairman. When I read the facts, I thought, "How many signals does a NVWA want to have to set off an alarm there?" The CDA is still not satisfied that the alarming reports immediately come into the system with a huge red flag, are brought together and weighed. Following the recommendations, there is talk of registration, standardisation. That's all good, but what's really important is that the red flag messages are immediately noticed and followed up. How do the ministers ensure that this is done? In addition, there is the role of the agency. I cannot accept that there are European MRLs for fipronil in eggs and chicken meat, but that it is not immediately thought that fipronil in food can have an impact on public health. An opinion on this needs months. Can the Minister explain whether it was necessary to handle the acceptable daily intake child, while other countries did not and was not mentioned in the European Commission's notification? The CDA does not agree with one of the recommendations of the Sorgblader Committee, namely the division of tasks between the Dutch Control Authority Eggs and the NVWA. We are not going to support this recommendation. Mr. Chairman. In addition, there is a role of the departments. Too late, the Sorgdrager committee stated, and the communication was not in order either. What else would happen in the event of a crisis? Can the ministers reflect on that? And how is the strengthening of the policy department and the preparation of the food safety crisis manual? Mr. Chairman. Farms are still closed and the financial consequences for the affected poultry farmers are very high. They also see the dark cloud hanging above them from an account of the NVWA. There is still no clarity on this account. And actually, if I let my heart speak, I'd like to cancel this bill. Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Fipronil Meldpunt Gelderse Valley for their commitment. Their experience and recommendation have been written down. What are the Ministers going to do in concrete terms with their recommendations and how do the ministers deal with the poultry manure that is still blocked in several heirs at the moment? Mr. Chairman. Rounding up. On the basis of the General Food Regulation, the Sorgblader Committee places greater responsibility for implementing the blocking measures in the sector itself. On the other hand, the committee also says that the poultry sector is often made up of family farms. But how can these massive recall actions be designed and financed, I ask the two ministers. The CDA considers it unsatisfactory how this responsibility is spread across the whole chain. Then I'm afraid the poultry farmer or the pig farmer is the victim. How do the ministers view this? What is the responsibility of the whole chain and how could it be designed, I ask them through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u6	Mrs Sorgdrager said: These complex mergers of all those services to NVWA meant that politics came up at the same time "hey, then we can cut back and we've lost a third of the budget." Mrs Sorgdrager said: everyone who knows organizational processes knows, that is not wise. During these fusion processes you have to keep the budget in order and only later you have efficiency gains. I understand the questions that Mr Geurts is asking here, but we have to conclude that the NVWA is not equipped because it also has too little budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u7	I can't conclude that the NVWA has too little budget. But with the wisdom afterwards, we know exactly what should have happened; that is what I hear Mrs Ouwehand say now. So that's wisdom after all. But we cannot conclude at the moment that the NVWA does not have sufficient budget. Both ministers have also indicated several times in debates and general consultations that the task for which the NVWA stands is being carried out. But I think it is obvious that we in the Chamber are still having some discussions about this and that we are cutting it sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u8	The word "backwards" is used. In 2014, the Safety Research Council also said that the political decision-making on the functioning of the NVWA did not lead the way to food safety, but rather the desire to reduce the burden on the government and the sector. Now we're really five years away. So when will the wisdom of the CDA really lead to intervention afterwards? Is there going to be a proposal to increase that budget considerably, especially now that we see that the costs of ICT are getting hugely out of hand and there is therefore a lack of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u9	About ICT and those 95 million, both directors have also indicated that they can solve it within the current budgets, at least that's the last information I've gotten. So there's no need for extra money for that either. In its report, the Sorgdrager committee clearly stated that signals about fipronil had been received by NVWA, but that they were not properly processed at least by my words. That has nothing to do with money. This has more to do with how systems, how people communicate with each other, how computer systems connect. So it has nothing to do with money. I think it has something to do with human actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u10	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u12	Okay. That was a short word. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals for her own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I want to talk about the victims of the fipronil crisis. In the Netherlands 47 million chickens live at any time, stallions, which are bred and kept for the production of eggs. Where are the cocks? There aren't any. Roosters do not lay eggs and therefore they are gassed on the first day of their lives; there are about 35 million per year. This is also the case in the production of organic and biodynamic eggs. Chickens lay by nature ten to twelve eggs a year. They lay 275 eggs in livestock farming. Chickens can easily grow 10 or sometimes 20 years old, but if they are used for eggs, they just get the 18 months. Totally inhabited, they are then caught, put by ploughs in crates and removed to the slaughterhouse, unless the sector frauds with a means that is prohibited. Then 3.6 million chickens are gassed and sold as green electricity, because they ended up at the biomass plants via Rendac. Mr. Chairman. The question is what lessons we can draw from the fipronil crisis. In the debate we held in the summer of 2017, the Party for Animals already had a nice analysis. We said: hurry up now, because we don't need a committee to figure out what's wrong. Perhaps some small things could be investigated in the organizational processes, but the most important errors were already known at that time. So I refer the cabinet to the contribution of the Party for Animals to the general consultation on 24 August 2017, because the analysis we presented there now appears to be confirmed by Sorgblader. So the problem is not that we would lack analysis of what goes wrong in livestock farming and its monitoring. The problem is that there is a majority in this House which makes every analysis possible and always puts the short-term interests of livestock farming first. If you would like to learn the bigger lessons, you have to conclude that livestock farming in the Netherlands is said to be too big to fail, too big to control. If 650 million animals a year, more than 1,200 animals a second, are hunted to death, how the hell are you gonna put that under surveillance? How are you going to ensure animal welfare there? Then how are you going to ensure food safety? It's impossible to do. Sorgblader now makes a few recommendations about what you can do better in the processes. All very nice, but we shouldn't think that we can properly control such a large industrial dod system. As long as you try, you can see that supervision is having a hard time with that. There too you can make choices. I was just talking about the OVV report in an interrupting debate with the CDA. In 2014 we already knew: it is a sector that does not necessarily hesitate to break the law. The incentive for fraud is great. Farmers don't report it when they see that their neighbor might have gone into business with a company that's breaking the rules. The political decision-making process is not about wanting to settle it properly, but simply to keep the burden on the public authorities and the sector low. We are very concerned about the limited capacity at NVWA. The last wretched lesson, or rather conclusion, is that if you want to protect animals in this country and violate a rule, you are completely blacked out. But if you breed, use and kill animals and break the law, you get government support. The Minister financed a promotional campaign of the egg sector at the Grüne Woche. Just taxpayers' money to clean up the image. The NVWA, i.e. the government, has been involved in environmental fraud, because fipronil-polluted manure, thanks to a NVWA protocol, can be driven on land and brought into the environment. How harsh is that? Maybe the cabinet can reflect on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u14	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u15	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with two compliments. One for the cabinet, which, after the fipronil crisis, decided to set up the Sorgblader Committee, and one for the Sorgblader Committee itself, who carefully studied the crisis and was not gentle to anyone who actually had a role in the situation in which eggs were found to be contaminated with the anti-blood lice fipronil. Food must be safe and I still see myself standing in front of the shelf with eggs in the store at the time of the fipronil crisis. Like a lot of other consumers, I had doubts about whether or not I should buy eggs. If so, which one? Do I put my kids in danger if I bake them pancakes later? It is therefore a good thing that the Sorgbrugger committee has considered the fipronil crisis. The central question for GroenLinks today is therefore: what will the cabinet do with the recommendations of the Sorgblader Committee? What has the Cabinet done since the publication of the report in June, nine months ago? We do not congratulate the Cabinet for this. It is moving slowly and the recommendations are not being sufficiently implemented. But it is about our food safety. Can both ministers explain why there has not been much more haste? I would like to go into a few of the recommendations made by the Sorgblader Committee. The first is self-regulation. The Sorgblader committee, like the cabinet, believes that self-regulation should be improved. You could also say that self-regulation has failed and we are abandoning it. I have two questions for Minister Schouten. Is there an alternative to self-regulation? Is it confident that with the improvement actions that the cabinet will take, future crises can be limited to incidents? Furthermore, today's debate focuses very much on the egg sector, but I would like to speak in broad terms about food safety. Can Minister Schouten tell me if all private quality systems in the food sector have been accepted by NVWA and can be placed on Ketenborging.nl?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u16	Mrs Bromet talks about self-regulation and says that it is insufficient. Does Mrs Bromet agree with D66 that European legislation requires food producers themselves to be responsible for food safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u17	Of course, I totally agree with that, but I'm curious about how you control or control as a government. That is what my question to the Minister is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u18	This means that producers must organise themselves with a private chain quality system that works and which the government can monitor properly. Does Mrs Bromet agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u19	Sure, but those systems will have to be approved. My question is whether all sectors have now come up with systems that have been approved, because that was not the case in the past and that has been one of the causes of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u21	The second aspect I would like to highlight is the NVWA, the Food and War Authority. The conclusions drawn by the Sorgdrager committee on the NVWA have been carefully formulated. The Committee writes: the capacity of the NVWA is limited, and therefore necessarily social values are weighed against each other. Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals has already mentioned the enormous cuts that have taken place. It seems that the Sorgbrugger committee has made its recommendations to the cabinet within the current financial frameworks. My question to Minister Schouten is whether it is real that the NVWA, in its present size, can comply with the proposed improvements. What tasks will be less focused by giving priority to food safety? One final aspect of the Sorgdrager Committee's report concerns the division of responsibility. The Sorgblader Committee states that the political and policy responsibility for food safety must be unambiguous and conclusive. On the basis of this recommendation, the government has put ABDTOPconsult to work. That agency concludes that there are no major bottlenecks in the current division of responsibility. That seems to me to contradict the conclusion of the Sorgbrugger committee. Is there or is there not a problem with the distribution of powers? Isn't it much wiser to appoint one responsible ruler in case of an incident or a crisis? In situations where everyone thinks something is important and everyone is responsible, there is always the danger that no one will take the lead. I would like to have a response from both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u22	Thank you. As a fifth speaker on the side of the Chamber, I shall give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fipronil crisis was exemplary for what could go wrong in an incident in food safety. The supervisor did not have a crisis plan for such incidents. He didn't have enough time and a failing ICT system. The sector was far from always well informed about protocols and the desired course of action. There was bad communication among themselves and to the media and therefore the public; and so I can go on for a while. It is therefore right for the government to have this examined extensively, thanks to Mrs Sorgdrager and her committee. The question is: how do we proceed with all these recommendations, the additional studies and the action plans? Is that how we're gonna make it? The NVWA didn't come out of the analysis unharmed. As has already been said, it lacked supervision, enforcement, resources; yes, what is not? Don't get me wrong: we don't question the good will and commitment of the employees of the NVWA. Nothing is as frustrating as having to do your job without the right resources and support and with too few colleagues. But I would like to ask the ministers here: is it any longer obvious that the NVWA lacks capacity? Isn't it true that additional funds have been committed for the coming years? But there are not so many of them that I am reassured that the problem has been solved. Can you convince me that this is the case? The Committee found that the NVWA as a supervisor was not well prepared for a food safety incident or crisis. It did not have a manual on food safety incidents or a crisis, and in the written question round it appeared that this was only finally adopted last June. That seems strange to us. Isn't it strange that we can only handle one crisis at a time? Because during the fipronil crisis there was no time for the poisonous goji berries that were on the shelf for months. Of course, that's risky, too. Do the Ministers foresee that this will not happen again and that we can handle several incidents at the same time if there are? After all, we do not want another fipronil crisis. The Minister of LNV states on the website of the government: "The approach with the egg chain deserves to be followed. From the ministries, we will ask all animal and plant sectors to follow the example of the egg sector and to check and, if necessary, strengthen food safety in their sectors." That's great, but how are we gonna secure this and how are we gonna monitor that? How are we going to ensure that sensitive sectors are able to act and that every effort is made to prevent or cope with a next crisis? In other words, what is the status of consultation with these animal and vegetable sectors? What's the start? Are these sectors already on their feet by the Ministry? How are the crisis manuals aligned? When will the crisis exercise take place? And what about coordination at European level? We welcome the Minister's statement that she is taking on board the seven recommendations of the report Together in the chain, but when has that been achieved? And who is responsible for the implementation? Who reports back on the realization and in what form? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. All in all, this is more than just the egg crisis. It's about the system, that's obvious. The Security Research Council, as has just been mentioned, even makes recommendations on this issue. The aim should not be to patch up the food safety system, but to ensure food safety: at the front, at the back and within the sectors. A cultural change is needed. That's the only way it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Groot of D66 from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u25	Mr. Chairman. We are regularly alarmed by a food incident. In 2011 it was about EHEC, in 2012 it was about salmonella at fish processor Foppen, in 2013 it was about horse meat and in 2017 it was about fipronil. And as it goes, there will be an investigation. From this point on, compliments to the Sorgblader committee. As far as I'm concerned, the research is filmed in "Fitronil, the Movie," a tragic comedy. Maybe a series is better, because the story continues to this day. In a video about the state of food safety, the highest boss of NVWA says: "Food in the Netherlands is generally safe and companies generally comply with food safety laws." My second question is: how do you know? Indeed, the report of the Sorgdrager Committee showed that there was zero attention to food safety in the egg chain, neither in the private quality system nor in public supervision. And to this day you have no insight into the performance of private Dutch quality systems. The question is: do they do what they promise? Another quote from the boss of the NWVA in mid-2018: "If it turns out that a company doesn't comply, we as a supervisor ensure that the company takes the right measures." How is it possible that in the autumn of 2017 a quarter of the eggs were still above the norm in the supermarkets? A quarter of the eggs! And, my second question: why did the NVWA agree to the dilution tactic of the processing industry, the tactic of mixing clean eggs with fipronil eggs? The NVWA also did nothing about that. So you and I ate fipronil eggs in the autumn of 2017. Were the ministers aware of this? Mr. Chairman. A Food Safety Action Plan has been promised to improve the situation, but what will become of it? I'll take you to 2013. Following the horse meat affair that year, the government established a Task Force on Food Confidence. The aim was to strengthen confidence in our food by, among other things, improving the connection between private quality systems and their public oversight. What has become of the good intentions of the Food Trust/Ketenborging Task Force? These systems could be accepted at the end of January 2016, as was written to the Chamber. None of the Dutch quality system has been approved and it is 2019. D66 calls for an end to the policy of incidents and for structural work to be carried out to improve food safety. The Food Confidence Task Force and Ketenborging set good criteria when a private quality system would be okay, such as unannounced controls, an adequate sanction regime, scope equal to legislation and adequate handling of non-conformity. Each and every one of these criteria is logical and one can wonder why they are not already included in those private systems. Mr. Chairman. It's very simple. D66 asks these ministers to require participation in Ketenborging for private quality institutions. There's been five years now for no commitment. Those days are over. Mr. Chairman. I just read the pieces and I was shocked by the state of food safety in the Netherlands. We just don't know. Food safety can only be secured if the taking of private responsibility and public oversight interfere. For that it is logical and, of course, that this is linked together. Chain securing was meant for that purpose. I would like a response from the ministers to that. I would add that it is now too late for vague commitments or good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u26	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u27	I'd like to ask D66 something. I have heard a number of previous speakers and I have also heard you ask the question to GroenLinks and say that you are in favour of the chain controlling itself. However, I can hear you being quite critical here. Do you now have faith in that chain or do we need to have much more NVWA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u28	Thank you for this question. It's both. According to European legislation, food producers themselves are responsible for food-safe production. This means that they must organise themselves in such a way that they can guarantee that to their customers themselves. Nothing makes more sense than that. You're showing that you're sticking to your standards. A private quality system has been devised for this purpose. That private quality system only needs to do one thing, namely do what it promises. At present, we do not know in any way whether these quality systems work. Occasionally there is an incident and it turns out that these Dutch quality systems do not work. On the other hand, the government has the task of ensuring that these quality systems do what they promise. At the moment, this is why I say that we have no idea at all. As a government, we do not have a view on the performance of these quality systems. That's why we're surprised over and over again and we're going from incident to incident. That's why it's important that we finish that previous project from 2013, which was precisely meant for those private systems to just do what they promise, so that the government can monitor it with proper information exchange agreements. You'll have an effective system together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u29	I agree. I also think that people who say that they supply a quality product should deliver it, that they should guarantee it and that they should be able to control it. That's very good, but there isn't. You said yourself, you scared the shit out of me. Should we have more NVWA as long as that's not in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u30	I believe that the directors must now ensure that the 2013 project is re-raised as soon as possible, the chain guarantee, and that companies are encouraged to participate in it. You can say at the end if you have to, boys, if you don't join us, you come in front of the fence. In the meantime, let's push that hard and check it out. In that sense I say: yes, then you have to take into account in your risk analysis at NVWA that a system has not yet been approved or accepted. It's really bothering them too. That way, of course, you can encourage companies to come forward. So if you don't report or haven't reported, the NVWA's gonna give you extra trouble. In that sense, the answer is yes: if you do not report, more checks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u31	I would like to go a little further on this point. Mr De Groot rightly notes that none of these quality systems meet the requirement of chain assurance. I believe there are three who are being investigated or how do you say that? Where appropriate, they may be eligible, but they do not yet have that certificate. What is the consequence of what Mr De Groot wants, namely to make it compulsory? We have quality systems that don't match that. Some of them don't seem to be up to it. Is there a transitional period in which they have to comply? Are there gonna be fines? Does that mean it goes to individual producers? I don't think that's gonna be easy. I'm just trying to find out what the execution of Mr De Groot's firm words is going to be, which, by the way, I agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u32	I think that's a search myself. If you're gonna make a commitment at the beginning, it's gonna be a must again. It has to pay for companies to participate. I can imagine that in a motion we say that the ministers will have a year to encourage it, to make sure that we are really going to work on it, and that in the meantime, so you can of course also fill in an obligation for companies that are not participating. To my great surprise, if I may say so again, President-in-Office of the Council, I read in the Chamber letters that IKB Egg would have reported to Ketenborging, but I can't find anything about it at all. They're sort of in some kind of preliminaries, but there's just nothing to see on the website. So it is also a bit of a vague and shadowy process, in which systems sign up and then disappear. It just needs to be more transparent and it needs to be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u33	The Sorgblader Committee itself finds, as they call it, a 'collective action prolem'. As long as it increases the burden on individual entrepreneurs, there is no real urge to take more safety measures. Then you keep waiting for quality systems to take steps, while the people behind them do not really benefit directly from taking those steps. So I'm still looking for the stick. Where's the stick?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u34	In fact, that report from Sorgdrager said that IKB Egg was already an enlightened regime, based on another project: Monitoring control from 2008. Of course, you have to stop doing that right now. So that's a stick behind the door. Surely you are not going to do any enlightened regime at the time when they have not yet reported for approval. Those are the details where you still have a carrot and a stick, so you're finally going to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u35	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can be certain of safe food, food without poison and without substances that do not belong in it. That should be obvious, for example, if you give your child a boiled egg, but it wasn't. The fipronil crisis has seriously damaged confidence in society and plunged the sector into a deep crisis. The central question in this debate is whether those responsible, both in the production chain and on the government side, have taken sufficient action. The Sorgblader committee has done a good job. It has given good advice and recommendations. The primary responsibility for this is the production chain. The question is whether it's okay in that chain now. The sector, through LTO, states that all recommendations have been taken on board. The question to both directors is whether they share that view. The industry does note that there is a defect, namely that not all entrepreneurs are automatically obliged to participate in IKB Egg. My question to the Minister for Agriculture is whether she sees an opportunity to declare this duty universally binding and whether, if it is not possible, she is prepared to make an agreement with consumers, retailers and the food industry that they will make it a condition. Mr. Chairman. My question is also whether the chain responsibility and quality assurance in the other agricultural sectors are sufficiently secured. The Sorgblader Committee has now really looked at this sector with a magnifying glass, but what about the other sectors? Is food safety and food quality in the Netherlands good? Is that okay? Can we trust that? Does the Minister dare to put her hand in the fire for that? Mr. Chairman. I come to the role of the NVWA and the Ministry. Hard conclusions have been drawn by the committee. The Minister writes that almost all of the committee's recommendations have been accepted. That's good. But is it okay now? And is it gonna be okay? My very specific question is: is the whole chain on the government's side now in order? In particular, given the depth of this crisis, the PvdA would welcome it if, at some point in time, we had an independent, expert and authoritative assessment of whether all the opinions and recommendations had been followed and maintained. The PvdA therefore considers it logical to ask whether the Sorgblader Committee would like to do an evaluation study next year, for example. Are the two rulers prepared to make that request to the Sorgblader committee? Then the position of the NVWA. It is controlled by a double line. Is food safety not exclusive to the field of Health and should this not be exclusive to VWS? The PvdA tends that way, but it's too early to draw a final conclusion now, all the more so because there are still a number of investigations in progress. The discussion on the NVWA still needs to take place. And the Security Research Council will also present a report. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. To ensure food safety through monitoring and enforcement, we need sufficient human resources and resources. Do the two directors share this view and do they consider that the NVWA has sufficient human resources, resources and qualities? Quite specifically: is the system of monitoring and enforcement for food quality and food safety in control? Is that okay? That is my final question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u37	Thank you. Mr. Geurts has a question for you, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u38	I have been thinking about what Mr Moorlag said about NVWA and its ministerial responsibility. Is this under LNV or under VWS? We have received a report from the General Administrative Service under the title: Together in the chain. Analysis of the distribution of responsibility between LNV and VWS in the field of food safety. My first question is: has Mr Moorlag read that report? And if so, on the basis of what argument from that report should the division of responsibility be regulated in a different way than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u39	I'm not talking about all the NVWA's duties. I am particularly concerned about food safety tasks. I have also indicated that it is not the time to draw a final conclusion on this. There will be another separate debate about the NVWA, the Research Council for Security will present a report and the report of the General Administrative Service is already there. If all the results are known, we must take stock. But the PvdA finds food safety and food quality issues that respect public health. That's why we're tending to put them in the U.S. Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u40	I'll be quiet for a second. I assume that the PvdA Group and Mr Moorlag know that food safety lies with VWS. The minister present, other than that of LNV, will also respond to questions from the Chamber on food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u41	Yes, it is, and that responsibility is there. But we do have a double line of control right now. To the taste of the PvdA-fraction it is typical that the NVWA is a service with two legs in one leg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u42	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u43	Mr President, thank you very much. What two young entrepreneurs have already failed to bring about: dozens of family businesses with their backs against the wall, often for months, consumers in panic, a panic triggered by the actions of the people who played a role in this whole crisis, killing millions of chickens and a multitude of eggs. The Sorgblader committee has produced an unmisunderstood report. It is good that steps have now been taken both by the sector and by the government to learn from this. Mr. Chairman. First, I want to zoom in on the NVWA's approach. The NVWA made valuable mistakes by misjudging multiple fraud reports in 2016. Two thirds of the stables were only treated by Chickfriend. In addition, market-distorting communication errors have been made. Unfortunately, the SGP's plea for compensation for affected companies has not been heard, as has happened in Belgium. NVWA accounts are still hanging over the market for samples, among other things. Can the Minister promise that these will be held in his pocket? Mr. Chairman. More consultation between the NVWA and the sector is much needed. That Chickfriend had a miracle cure, sang around in the sector for a while. Then you wonder where the fountains of such a supervisor are. Shouldn't he be picking up those signals? Fraud notifications were not shared with sector organisations. At the beginning of the crisis there was hardly any consultation with poultry farming. That's not how it works. What are the rulers going to do to ensure further and better information exchange? Inspectors indicated that they had so little confidence in their own formal channels that they preferred to report their suspicions of fraud through informal contacts with the investigation department. That's not how it works, is it? How are we doing with this internal distrust? Has that been wiped out with root and branch by now? Is that gone or is that still high? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to address the issue of proportionality. I am going to make a bit of a counter-sound in relation to the input of some of my colleagues. It continues to gnaw a little bit: harsh, careless measures, while public health has not been in danger. Our perception was in search of proportionality. In the case of cyanide in apricot seeds, a deadly poison in apricot seeds, which are freely available, a warning is sufficient, namely: do not eat more than five seeds a day. If you go through a similar standard to fipronil in eggs, the warning "eat no more than 1,700 eggs a day" would suffice. That is the relationship between the damage that could be incurred. My question to the rulers is: will the rulers, together with Brussels, look at proportionality in the event of incidents? Mr. Chairman. Before we...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u44	You have some interruptions at the point you've just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u45	I am also very pleased with that, but perhaps it would be good to say something in advance, namely that I am dealing with this relativization because that is what it is; I realize that, and that is what I am doing very consciously, I do not mean that you can mess with food safety. On the contrary, food safety must be guaranteed. If fipronil is a prohibited means, then it is a prohibited means and then the sector should comply with it. At the same time: talk to those people and you know that they didn't even know the word "fipronil" at the time it was used and that it was a secret of the blacksmith, with which blood lice could be fought so that the chickens were treated better. Mr President, I should like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u46	Thank you. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks was the first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u47	Yesterday, 37 poisons were found after residents had done research in their gardens because they thought: there must be a lot of poison from lily cultivation. The funny thing is when you look at how farmers react to social media in the sector: eating chips is more dangerous. In view of the way in which the sector is talking about poison, you yourself say that it is a prohibited substance. I also have a question, because I really don't know. Can you eat those?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u48	Yeah, you can eat it. You can even put them in the blender and grind them. Some are jubilant about what effect that has, but it's life-threatening. You don't have to do it. Do not eat more than five seeds a day, compared to 1,700 eggs. If I may respond to this: it is not a matter of playing down this crisis and that sort of thing, but we must bear in mind proportionality, we must keep reality in mind. If you turn on the one so heavily, that is underlined and magnified by certain reactions, and that grows but out of the way, you have to look back and take lessons from that too. If there are other risks, we should also name them. That's what I call proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u49	Is Mr Bishop aware that there is a European standard for the substance fipronil in eggs and that an MRL has been set for it, precisely in order to protect public health? That's my first question. My second question is: do you agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u50	Of course, that standard is known. That is why we also call on the directors to look together with Brussels at what is a real standard. What standard should you maintain in the light of proportionality? That standard has also been interpreted a bit differently and has changed a bit. That also plays a part in the whole crisis. But the SGP is absolutely not in favour of bringing responsibility for food safety to a public authority. We believe that this is an extremely risky step to take. I shall come back to that briefly later, because I see that in the meantime...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u51	Very briefly, because you have eight seconds left. I shall return to Mr De Groot for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u52	The question is whether they are responsible. Sure, that's what they need to be addressed to. But at the same time, I think you should maintain that standard and do it in reasonable terms. You really need to assess the risk to public health without panic. And when that's all over, you have to look back: do we have a good standard now? And: did we do this the right way? I therefore do not call them free of responsibility either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u53	You're clear. I'm going to see Mr De Groot. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u54	The standard is set by scientists. It is wise to remain politically far away from that. In the opinion of D66, Mr Bishop is here on behalf of the SGP diluting the responsibility of every food producer with words, and that is a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u55	I am sorry that Mr De Groot interprets that in this way. This is by no means the case. I'm far removed from his insinuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u56	The problem with Mr Bishop's comparison is, of course, that there should be cyanide in apricot seeds and there should be no fipronil in eggs. It makes perfect sense for authorities to take action when that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u57	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u58	My question is this. The Sorgdrager Committee's report, which is extremely critical of almost every aspect of this crisis, says about the NVWA's action on blocking companies and recall actions: this was a logical step from the precautionary principle. Does the SGP not share the conclusion of the Sorgblader Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u59	No, I'm questioning that. I also think that on this point the report is unreasonably hard towards the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u60	Okay, so we don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u61	The relativization has taken me from the heart. It might have been brought in a different way. For example, people with dogs in the Netherlands regularly bring fipronil into their homes for flea treatment of their hands. A lot of people don't even know that. They then have that on their hands and consume it again. That seems to me to be a point of attention, but that aside. Mr Bishop also spoke about values, MRL values etc., in his contribution. What I am concerned about right now is that there is still uncertainty about those values. There are many areas of manure that, contrary to what Mrs Ouwehand just said in her contribution, cannot be disposed of. Has the SGP also thought about how we're going to solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u62	Of course, you can criticize the possibility of dilution, but that can certainly help to solve the problem, without having any adverse effect on public health. We also need to find a practical solution at some point, if public health, food safety and food quality are not put at risk. The point is, however, that I am saying this immediately, and I will not have to go back to that in my speech at a moment' s notice that the NVWA is allowed to take account of 50% measurement uncertainty, whereas companies are not allowed to do so. My question to the Minister is then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u63	That's not how we're gonna do it. No, no, no, no. You're going to have your own input into an interruption now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u64	Yes, because you rightly pointed out to me that I have little time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u65	... "hogs away," I'd say in animal terms. But we are not going to do that, so I am going to give Mr Geurts the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u66	It is in line with what Mr Bishop says and whatever I ask him, through you, Mr President. There's still blocked manure. There must be a solution to this. It can't stay down in the light of public health. It's hot weather right now. This can't be happening. This has to be solved. So, through you and through Mr Bischip, I say once again to the cabinet: help with this solution. And then the words Mr Bishop says about 50% et cetera, are very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u67	Thank you. Well, I guess you got that for a while. There is another interruption by Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u68	I see that Mr Bishop is very sympathetic to the sector. We have indeed seen the farmers and farmers who have had a very difficult time because of this crisis. But we have also heard Mrs Sorgbrugger explain her report. Mr Bishop just asked: where were the sense horns of the NVWA? But Mrs Sorgbearer asked: where were the peasants' sense horns? They must also be very critical when it comes to the question "who lets you in, and by what means?" They're ultimately responsible, aren't they, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u69	I have already responded to this in a previous interruption. I agree with colleagues that the entrepreneur remains fully responsible for food safety. At the same time, I have an eye for the situation where you have an almost insoluble problem: you see your animals suffering from that blood lice and you can't get them out. And then someone comes and says, "I have a powerful means, and I assume that's familiar." The cure seems familiar, too. You should have had your own labs done, if you wanted to find out that there was fipronil in it, and then you should have known that fipronil is a forbidden substance. If someone comes up with that, you say: yes, that is a practical solution. I understand how people come to do that; that's what I'm saying. At the same time, I hold them completely and completely responsible, but within the proportionality I have spoken of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u70	Isn't the conclusion that if you want to keep animals for egg production both literally and figuratively, with all the violence, you also fully accept all the entrepreneurial risks? That means you're responsible for checking the label so you know what stuff you leave in your stall. If you don't want to, don't take stables with chickens in them!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u71	Have you spoken to those poultry farmers, Mrs. Ouwehand? They read those labels. What's on the jerry can? It wasn't on there. There's one of the problems. And then I think to myself: yes, wait a minute. Then, of course, you can say "go to a laboratory," but I can imagine that at some point as an entrepreneur you also think: what a good thing there is a product. I imagine you're thinking: this is what's in it, so this is what I can do and I'm going to use this. I get it, but that doesn't relieve them of their responsibility. I agree with you in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u72	The SGP is trying to eat off both sides here. Actually, I don't think that's so pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u73	Well, well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u74	The SGP talks nicely towards the entrepreneurs and at the same time, when critical questions come from the Chamber, the SGP says: no, of course I think they should comply with the law, but not really, because it is actually too difficult for them. There were also farmers who had those boys on their farms and said: I am not going to do this, because I do not trust this. And that's how it must be! If you don't want those entrepreneurial risks and if you think it's too much trouble, you're gonna grow plants without poison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u75	Well, I understand that this is Mrs Ouwehand's final goal. I would like to thank her very much, but at the same time the reality is that the sector still exists and continues to produce. In the meantime, the sector will have to abide by the rules. I couldn't agree more. I also know about people who deliberately didn't use the product because the company didn't want to give the entrepreneurs, the ones who applied it, enough clarity about what was in it. Those people didn't trust it. That's possible, that's possible. Anyway, if you haven't asked through in that way and you have sufficiently verified the product and its admissibility, then you remain responsible. I find it too embarrassing to say that the SGP would eat off both sides. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u76	I do not want to talk so much about applying or not applying the principle of caution by the entrepreneurs, but rather about Mr Bishop's relativization in relation to proportionality and standards. In addition, he compares apples to pears for my taste. In this way he ends up in the heading tubers and lemons. The norm is there can be no fipronil in eggs, right? The norm is not that public health should not be affected. The norm is that that stuff doesn't belong in it. If it's in there, don't you think it should just be taken off the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u77	That's clear. Not that it shouldn't be in there, but the residue limit has been exceeded. That's the point. At the same time, the public health argument played an extremely important role throughout the performance, not to say a dominant role. If that is true, then you should also list other risky products for public health. Well, then you have to compare it with each other. But fipronil doesn't belong in eggs. There may be a small residue in it, but it has its limit. It can't be exceeded, but it did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u78	I am pleased that Mr Bishop is now firmly in favour of this. But if he thinks that public health risks should be the norm, we need to adapt them in the laws and regulations and not go back to relativizing them and using the concept of proportionality. The norm is the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u79	I think I indicated that the farmers, the entrepreneurs, were responsible for the presence of the substance in the eggs. I then said: look at public health and its threat; has it been a proportionate reaction to the whole? The conclusion we all have to draw is no. I don't hear that's what they're doing. So my question was whether we should not be taking this as a lesson that we should look carefully at this standard, which is without prejudice to the fact that the standard was then, even if it had only been changed before. That has also been a point of uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I will come to a conclusion. I agree with the questions raised by colleagues who related to the capacity of NVWA. I am not going to repeat it, but I would also like to have those questions in my name. Finally, I have a question about the position of the Dutch Control Authority for Eggs and the Central Quality Commission for Dairy. I have already said it: I believe that we must hold the sector mainly responsible for food safety. That shouldn't be taken over by a state agency. That state authority must monitor and ensure that this is done properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u80	Thank you. You've been over your speaking time for half a minute, so I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u81	I'm not the first, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u82	I think you are. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than a year and a half ago, a major food crisis took place in the Netherlands. The observed presence of fipronil in eggs led to the blocking of hundreds of stables, the destruction of several million chickens, major economic damage and a blow to consumer confidence in Dutch and foreign products. The Sorgblader Committee has written a report on this, a very critical report. The report is critical of the NVWA, which has not processed reports or is too late. It is critical of the sector, which did not have its own control mechanisms in order. And it is critical of departments, which were certainly rather reluctant when it comes to communication and actually the NVWA seemed to be getting the chestnuts out of the fire. The report by Sorgbrugger offers dust for a lot of comments, much more than I can make in four minutes. So I'm gonna have to pick out a few. I'll start with the departments and ministers anyway. As regards the SP, it is unacceptable that the Chamber was not informed in the letter sent on 3 August 2017 by the then ministers of VWS and EZ about the fact that there had been notifications to the NVWA already in 2016, as Sorgdrager notes. I would like to ask an explicit statement by these leaders on this: do they think that this was an incorrect choice? In the opinion of the SP, it seems that political damage control has won over the full disclosure obligation to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The Sorgblader committee is also extremely critical of the role of the sector. There is a collective problem of action, in other words: companies tend not to take initiatives for new measures that increase safety in the chain because they will increase their burdens. I have just exchanged some of that with Mr De Groot. As far as the SP is concerned, this is a persistent problem in all these sectors. What do the rulers think about that? How can it be that Mr De Groot has already referred to this fact that companies that are members of IKB Egg have been given an enlightened supervisory regime since 2008 while the assumption that the statutory standards and control requirements had been adopted was incorrect? Has there not been an almost ideological urge for butchers to check their own meat? Sorgdrager rightly points out the dependence on private controls of certification institutions of the client. Isn't that also a problem that keeps coming back to those quality systems? Then the NVWA. The NVWA is often the head-of-jut in this Chamber, and not always wrong. Reports of fipronil didn't surface in time to be maintained. Perhaps one of the most troubling passages in Sorgdrager's report is that decisions, information and responsibilities were not or have not been argued in the NVWA. That's very worrying. Then we get an action plan, which at least states that all notifications are registered centrally. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er zo'n 20.000 per jaar.]] I don't want to create unnecessary bureaucracy, but registration isn't enough. You also need to register what kind of decision is taken on the basis of a notification. I do not read that in the action plan. I'd like to know if that's how it's gonna be done internally. What happens when such a report goes to a team that has a huge work supply that's understaffed? Then what happens to a report like that? It's fantastic that there are now case managers looking at reports and saying "that's a lot to do, so we're gonna stick to that," but you don't get the red flags that Mr Geurts was talking about, because then you get the big group. Moreover, I honestly wonder if the NVWA really needs more managers at the moment. But that's a sidetrack. Mr. Chairman. My last half minute I'd like to say a few words about communication. Communication was not ideal in the fipronil crisis; we all know that. From the NVWA some changing signals were sometimes given and information became available late. Isn't it wise to put communication with a trade minister in major food crises by default, and specifically at VWS? That's a little bit different from who's responsible for what part. The point is that communication comes from one point. VWS seems to us to be the most logical. This also solves a possible tribal struggle between departments, which Sorgdrager also says something about. It is very pleasant for Dutch consumers to have one face that takes responsibility for communication. Thank you. One second over time. I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u84	Yeah, that's fine. Then Mrs Lodders of the VVD. She is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u85	Mr. Chairman. Many people have forgotten the fipronil crisis and the empty shelves in the supermarket, but for poultry farmers and in the egg chain 2017 is still full on the retina. They still experience the consequences of this crisis on a daily basis, either because they have suffered serious financial damage or because they still cannot use their stables. This crisis has also had enormous human impact. I see the resilience of the sector, but that does not mean that the misery of these people is over. This crisis has revealed a number of points of concern and it is good that the previous cabinet has launched an extensive investigation. The Sorgblader Committee, which has been given this task, has drawn up a comprehensive report. Can I summarize it in such a way that the conclusion in this report is that all concerned were not sufficiently prepared and acted insufficiently? I thank the committee for the work and the report, which is the basis for an action plan on food safety. It is a good thing that the cabinet, but certainly also the sector, has been working on the recommendations of the Sorgblader committee; recommendations in the direction of the sector, the NVWA and the ministries concerned. Can the Minister indicate where we stand in the implementation of the various recommendations? Where are we when a similar crisis breaks out tomorrow? Of course, I hope not. Have we taken sufficient steps, including in other sectors, to act faster and more appropriately? I realize that you can never prevent a crisis, but it is important that it be detected as soon as possible, in order to limit its size. Can the Minister comment on the state of play in the sector and NVWA? It is also a question of the role of both ministries concerned. Is it absolutely clear to the ministries concerned, to the NVWA and to the sector who is responsible for what? A lot of questions have already been asked, and I also have some. One of the recommendations is to bring the Dutch Control Authority Eggs to the NVWA; a number of previous speakers have commented on this. My group has often expressed concerns about the expansion of tasks and the development of costs at NVWA. If these tasks, to date carried out by the NCAE, are transferred to the NVWA, this will lead to a substantial increase in the cost of the sector. The question is whether the control by the NVWA can then be carried out in the same way. My group is not in favour of this. The sector also needs to make a number of improvements within the framework of self-regulation. Can the Minister indicate whether the sector has sufficient tools to take the right steps? A number of colleagues have already addressed this issue. I am talking about a general statement to strengthen IKB Egg, in this case for the egg chain, but that goes for the other sectors as well. We are asking for something from the sector, that is one, but then there is an instrument, and that is step two. That's all I care about. Last year I made a point that the NVWA is too concerned with policy making or drawing up rules. In my group's view, this is a responsibility that belongs to the trade ministers; the responsibility of the minister who lays down rules. We in the Chamber can appeal to the minister responsible. The NVWA should be involved in the monitoring and enforcement of these rules. The Sorgblader committee has also noted this. I tabled a motion at the time to identify what steps need to be taken to make this division of roles between ministries and NVWA clearer. At the request of the Minister, I held that motion, but I read in the letter of 21 December that an external agency was commissioned to carry out an analysis. I do not know exactly what is meant, but for my group there is only one outcome, which is that this division of roles is being adjusted. Again: policy belongs to the Ministry and enforcement of the NVWA. When will this analysis come and when will the division of roles be so organised? Mr. Chairman. I'll lock up. I would like to join with the questions that have been asked about the costs for the entrepreneur that have not yet been passed on. I would like this thorough report to be used in a direction where we are on track. It is very appealing to my group that this cabinet gives priority to food safety. But stay on that course, even in the future. That, I think, is important for all concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u86	Several speakers, including Mrs Lodders of the VVD, have spoken in general. Does Mrs Lodder agree with me that this can only be done in the case of private systems accepted by chain securing? In other words, private systems that also work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u87	I think it's pretty simple: something that doesn't work, you're not going to dedicate it to the whole sector. It will, of course, have to work. I would very much like to leave that with the sector, because it is responsible for this. Good agreements will have to be made. This applies not only to this case but also to other sectors. Hence my question. In my opinion, we have had a debate on public health before, namely on plant health. I think you were on our side, too. We are reluctant to do that, and that is crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u88	Indeed, we find each other in applying universally binding declarations. I am glad that Mrs Lodders agrees with me that this can only be done with accepted quality schemes under chainborging.nl. This means that there is still some homework to be done for the sector before we can proceed with a general commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u89	If you put that conclusion in my mouth, I must say that I will not support it directly, because I think there is, of course, homework for all parties. I'd be careful not to let the government sit in their seats too much. Again, entrepreneurs are responsible for the quality of the products they supply. They will have to secure it with each other. I think that we sometimes feel that we can do better than the sector, but I would really like to watch over that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u90	Thank you. Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand is rushing. A question from Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u91	I thought so!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u92	Yes, Mr President, because of course I have to ask the main players this question. I already put him at the CDA. According to the analysis, the merger and the cuts were simply not very sensible. We can now see the fact that ICT is being exceeded. There are simply serious concerns: does the NVWA have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks? Previous reports have really been critical: politics considered it more important to reduce costs than to ensure that this task can be properly carried out. Is the VVD willing to add money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u93	In the coalition agreement, we agreed that extra money would be available, but I do not agree with Mrs Ouwehand, namely that there should be a lot of extra money. In my last sentences of my contribution, it was "price-fixed." So we're going in a certain direction. The cabinet has chosen food quality as a priority. I'm very happy about that. I have not actually been able to ask that question, but this also means that the cabinet has to make choices. If I take stock of the wishes in this Chamber, I can see that we can triple the NVWA and that we still have insufficient capacity to carry out all the wishes that live in this Chamber. I don't want to go there. We're gonna have to prioritize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u94	I was a little afraid of this. Food safety is of course extremely important, but we would make it a lot easier for ourselves if we did not kill 650 million animals. Because with animal products you run a lot more risks in the field of food safety. There's gotta be a lot of capacity there. Now the last intensity of surveillance when checking for animal welfare in the stables is 2%. If you have a stable, chances are you'll get a check on the NVWA once every 50 years. Is that one of the choices the VVD makes? All the nuts on food quality and nothing left to control animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u95	I believe that we must ensure that we in this Chamber set priorities, such as 'the NVWA must ensure that this is done'. I would very much like to talk to these two leaders about the prioritisation and what we should do as a government. Next, it is up to the owner of the NVWA, in this case the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, to direct the NVWA. I'm very curious how the Minister will fill that out. I would have liked to have included that in this debate, but the time is too short. We're about to have a debate on the NVWA. It will then be one of the most important questions. Last week, I saw in the media that we are making the choice to prioritise food quality and then I see all kinds of actions from the NVWA with which other priorities are set. That's wonderful, but then I know one thing: we're never gonna make it and we certainly need a triple or quadrupling of the number of people. We don't have the money for that. Nor can we place one or two NVWAs everywhere where food is produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u96	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u97	In itself, I agree with Mrs Lodder that you need to be clear about what can be done. But within what you can, you have to make choices. We're about to have a general discussion on the NVWA. I am really curious what priority the VVD gives to animal welfare controls. I'm gonna ask that question. So Mrs. Lodders can think about it for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u98	Yes, I can think about that for a few weeks. It may not be appropriate to say that in my final reaction to Mrs Ouwehand, but I note that the Animal Party is at the bar for most requests for additional controls to be carried out by the NVWA. The VVD already does, but the Chamber will just have to say no to it more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u99	Thank you. I will suspend the sitting until 5:30 p.m. and then the cabinet will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u100	The Minister of LNV will undoubtedly come in soon. I am giving the Minister for Medical Care and Sport this is how we should say: the Minister for Medical Care and Sport is already speaking for the answer of the cabinet in the first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u101	Mr President, thank you very much. In the summer of 2017 we experienced a very large food incident. Millions of eggs and chickens have been destroyed. Consumers were worried. It has made a heavy change in the poultry sector. We don't want that to happen again. It is good that we have evaluated this incident and that Mrs Sorgdrager has so carefully examined the incident. The conclusions of the report are firm: lessons must be learned. Compliments to Mrs. Sorgdrager and her team on behalf of both of us. This report provides many tools to further strengthen the food safety system. Our food safety system is robust and must remain so. There is an extensive system of standards. Companies must ensure this through their food safety approach and NVWA will monitor this. This will prevent incidents as much as possible, although, unfortunately, they can never be ruled out. Mr. Chairman. Society needs to be able to count on companies to ensure safe food, that the regulator signals sharp and alert and, if necessary, intervene firmly, and that policy departments continuously work on an adequate system of legislation and its implementation, in short, give food safety priority. Mr. Chairman. The fipronil incident has put us on edge. We have taken seriously and carefully the recommendations of the Sorgblader committee and looked carefully at what improvements they should lead to. In the Food Safety Action Plan, we have identified a concrete list of actions for the egg sector, but also for the NVWA and the policy departments. There's a lot of them. A large number of these recommendations were taken up shortly after the incident, while others take some time, but we are not finished and you are not finished either. We agreed to report to you six months, starting next month, with the first progress report. In any case, we would like to repeat this a few more times, even in the coming year. Mr. Chairman. Let me outline the points of improvement and start with the egg sector. A large number of improvement points have been set up, mainly concerning the strengthening of the private quality systems IKB Egg and IKB Poultry service companies and increasing knowledge on food safety in poultry farmers. The Sorgdrager Committee has confirmed that these actions are a good step forward and stresses the importance of rapid implementation. We can say that the sector is working hard on this. In our mutual consultations, we keep a close eye on this. We would like to offer you the first proof of this in our progress report. The NVWA is about the following. The NVWA works on improvement points that mainly relate to the earlier and better reception and assessment of signals. Several of you have spoken of this. Where signals could still be introduced to the NVWA organisation in the past, it has been ensured that they are now and are organised in a uniform and unambiguous way. And not only that; these signals are also weighed to see which are heavy and which are less heavy and the progress is monitored. That was the question of one of you in the first-term debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u102	The Minister refers to the first evaluation that we will soon receive. Can he say a little more about the progress that has been made since the drafting of the letters we are debating today and the forthcoming evaluation? Are there really any big steps taken? I'm just curious about that. It follows each other quickly, but we want to see action, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u103	I heard that in your speech. Perhaps it is important to say that the report of the Sorgblader Committee of June 2018 is important. We have written a whole Food Safety Action Plan, with a letter from both of us. I didn't hear that in your contribution. That letter was offered to you before Christmas. In fact, it says that we accept almost all the recommendations. Only the one about the NCAE is still under investigation, you might say. But we take over the vast majority of Sorgblader's recommendations. And we're working on it. Consultations with the egg sector are under way. In the egg sector, for example, the food industry was not sufficiently developed. That's what's happened now. That work on registering for and at chainborging.nl had not yet come to its own. That's what's gonna happen this year. That's what the sector wants. There are also actions for the NVWA and also for the departments, and I was just naming them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u104	That's very good, too. Of course I read that action plan. I got it right here, too. The illustration is that there are all kinds of schemes included, with actions. In an action that is ready, there is a green box. What strikes me very much is that in the actions that fall under the responsibility of the cabinet, the boxes are not yet green at all. That's what I'm talking about a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u105	I didn't say the work was all done. You can't. If we are thinking, for example, about strengthening the NVWA's enforcement toolbox, that is one of those measures that we sometimes say: okay, we can organise through lower regulation. And in some cases we will need legislation for that. So you can't add a green box to that. That is why we do not want to leave it at this afternoon's debate. We would like to present you with a number of progress reports so that you can see that we are on the verge of making progress on this matter. Perhaps self-regulation in the past was something that the sector itself had to do. I think that these two rulers are in such a position that we believe that the promotion of self-regulation also requires an active role on our part. We're not gonna deliver that evidence in one piece, we're gonna need a few progress reports, and so on. Mr. Chairman. I was at the NVWA and its improvement points: the earlier and better reception and assessment of signals. There are steps to be taken. The second major improvement point for the NVWA concerned the cooperation between the investigation service, the NVWA IOD, and the supervisory division. With the establishment of a fraud-expertise node, the consultation between detection and surveillance, the improvement has started. It gives me a good feeling that we have prevented a repetition in this way of the fipronil incident, where these two different disciplines have moved apart or moved apart. We won't get a repeat of moves. You have also read that we are committed to a Chief Food Safety Officer, someone with perseverance, highly hanged in the NVWA organisation, who can understand himself directly with the inspector-general of the NVWA or with the directors if there is a crisis or an incident. Why is that important? Because such a CFSO, such a Chief Food Safety Officer, also gets a role in other countries. It's a European agreement. This gives us the good feeling that what we are doing is being linked to what Europe is doing. In this way, I think, cooperation is becoming ever closer and there is also a much more active attitude. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, in addition to the sector and NVWA, there are the departments. They are strongly committed to their system responsibility. One example of this is, as I have just said, that you are not leaving self-regulation to the sector, but encouraging it. An example is that your assignments to the NVWA of our two departments are reinforced through the annual planning cycle, so that they are linked and you can follow the progress. Another point that we consider to be part of system responsibility is that you develop KPIs to monitor and assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the NVWA work. For example, there are many more actions to be mentioned, not all of them, to which you can see that we are actively engaged, not only in the Netherlands but also in Brussels. In Brussels, the clear interpretation of legislation is the subject of discussion. Member States should take as many similar measures as possible in the event of incidents. Crisis communication in cross-border incidents is and remains an important focus. Last November, the European Commission initiated regular coordination with the crisis coordinators in the Member States and organised a first crisis exercise. That was international. We are going to do something similar at national level: jointly organise a crisis exercise with NVWA, LNV and VWS. I think those are steps forward. And yet, and yet, a crisis or an incident can never be ruled out. But if it is then, companies, the NVWA and the departments must act quickly and effectively, communicate properly and do not have to think about how the agreements were once again laid down in crisis manuals. After the fipronil incident, all parties worked on an update of their crisis manual. In the course of this year, we, the departments and the NVWA, are doing a crisis exercise with the egg sector, I repeat. That too, the update of the crisis manuals and an update of the crisis communication, was one of the recommendations in the report of the Sorgdrager Committee. This recommendation has been adopted and developed in the Food Safety Action Plan that has been presented to you. We've got a lot going on, but there's still a lot to do. As has already been said, we will in any case offer you a number of progress reports this year and also next year. The next year will be the first half-yearly progress report. These were some introductory words, but I wasn't finished. I would just like to say that we have made a division of roles for answering questions from your Chamber. I'm gonna start with myself, real tight. The report of the Sorgdrager committee, the action plan and the report of ABDTOPconsult on the division of responsibility between LNV and VWS are with me, as well as more generally the handling of the fipronil incident and the follow-up of actions from the action plan. Mr Schouten's contribution will be more about the ownership of the NVWA, the economic impact on poultry farmers, the problem of manure during and after the incident, Mrs Lodder's motion on the separation of policies and supervision and, finally, the additional resources from the coalition agreement. That's about how we figured it out. That is the list of accounts, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u106	Mrs Ouwehand already has a question on the introductory remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u107	I have a more general question, which I would like to see reflected by the Minister. I missed my deadline: we slaughter 650 million animals a year, and that is 1,200 per minute, not per second, as I mistakenly said. There's still a lot of them. For pigs, we know the pace is 700 pigs per hour. We can't even count it for chickens. Does the Minister recognise that these incredibly high paces are a factor in the extent to which we can approve and monitor food safety, or does he look away from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u108	Don't look away, but to measure my expert judgment on it is just a step too far. I'm looking at food safety. For me, that is always the measure by which I lay down the actions of ourselves. Let us begin with this, but also by the NVWA and of the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u109	I would ask the Minister to think more seriously about this. Maybe he can answer it later in his speech. We know that judges with those tempos, combined with the capacity there, only have a few seconds to inspect a carcass. We also know that the risk of food safety risks with animal products is higher than with plant products. If we weren't to slaughter those animals, it would have been a lot easier, but if it did, then do it less and not at those high speeds. Surely the Minister cannot maintain with dry eyes that a few seconds per carcass is a watertight system or at least a reasonably reliable system to ensure and approve food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u110	I don't think I'm an expert on this subject, but you can expect me to stand for food safety. I will always look at the way food is produced through the glasses of food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u111	I do not know whether the question belongs here, but since the Minister started in his introduction on the points raised by both ministries, I am going to ask the question. I'm talking about the schematics, the crisis plans, the crisis communication. I think that caused a lot of misery in 2017. We all remember that from the debates. I hear the Minister say that this must be completed during the year, but I am so afraid that we need that crisis communication when something happens somewhere. What steps have been taken in this regard? Is the Minister prepared to report on these aspects, which are also extremely important for the sector, in particular in the progress report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u112	To be precise, there are already several crisis manuals. There are also several crisis communication implementation plans. I have just argued that they need an update and that they are ready this year, not only on paper, but also for an exercise. That makes it pleasantly practical for me and for us. I think that's the right way to go. I think it is a good idea to mention something about this in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u113	I put this question because the letter of 21 December indicated that much still needs to be done, including international consultations and coordinated crisis manuals. Reference is made to "in the course of 2019.' If it said "spring 2019," I would have some insight into it, but I always find "in the course of" a very broad concept. I hear the Minister saying that there are already manuals, but they have not worked very well when we look back at the crisis and this incident. That's why I'm in a bit of a hurry about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u114	I get that very well on the one hand. On the other hand, the two departments like to look up each other in crisis manuals, but also in crisis communication. It's got to be done right. Moreover, it concerns not only the two departments, but both departments and NVWA. Moreover, to make it a bit more complex, the Food Centre and sometimes RIVM also have a role to play. That is how we organized it in the Netherlands. We are only talking about the Dutch institutions with which we are seeking coordination. But you can conclude from this that we are actively working on this. We will, of course, report progress. The progress report will certainly show that it is not yet finished, but you will be able to monitor progress. This is certainly so complicated at international level, because despite repeated recruitment efforts we have not yet managed to find a good official as Chief Food Safety Officer. That's what we're doing. The flag goes off when that person is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u115	The Minister began his introduction with the words "the system is robust." Does the Minister find the system described in this Sorgdrager report robust?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u116	Well, I think we have a robust system. But if there is an incident of the magnitude of the fipronil incident, there is work to be done. Then you'll have to take measures. But I think we have a robust system in the sense that we have invested the tasks well. Since the publication of Mrs Sorgdrager's study, we have taken steps to ensure that I look forward with confidence to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u117	Looking forward to the future with confidence is something else. The system described here is raging on all sides. I would not describe that as robust at all. How can the Minister say, on what basis, that our food is safe? We don't know it's unsafe. We don't know if it's safe either. The Minister will have read the report from cover to cover, I suppose. Again, does the Minister really think the system described here is robust?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u118	I made it a little wider. We have the description and analysis of Mrs. Sorgbearer. We have an action plan on food safety. A number of measures have been described. Perhaps it is so important that the report and the sector and the NVWA and us have become an impulse: an incentive to act and try to get things better on the table than before. Only on the basis of the report can you say that there were not enough measures to act effectively, and you can all comment on them. That's Sorgbearer's analysis. On the other hand, when there was intervention, Sorgbearer said: that is functional and appropriate. I'm glad you did. Mr De Groot makes the switch to: is the food safe in the Netherlands? That is what he is getting from the State of the Netherlands, the report that has just been published. We can be very satisfied with the safety of our food. If that means we're all gonna sit back and do nothing, then we've come to the wrong place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u119	A very brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u120	The Minister doesn't really answer the question. There may have been some action. We will have to judge whether that was right. But the system that is described here is raging on all sides. I think it is the duty of this Minister to improve that system. You cannot start with "the system is robust" if there are still so few actions that are described in it and which are to a large extent also applicable to other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u121	There wasn't really a question in there anymore. I insist that our food safety system is robust, that it should remain so and that it always needs active maintenance from both the sector and the NVWA and both departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u122	I would like to go back to communications, communication handbooks and so on, which Mrs Lodders was just talking about. I think the Minister is right to say that there are quite a few participants here. You have the NVWA, you have the RIVM, you may have the Food Center and you have at least two departments. I understand a lot of things are being rewritten. In that context, doesn't it make sense to say that the end product, the face out, the person who has to tell people "what can I eat or not?" one person should be? Then my follow-up question is: isn't that logical the VWS Minister? Or "a" U.S. Secretary, I have to say right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u123	Oh, I thought there was a compliment in there for a second. No, I'm slippery for it... We are glad that this communication needs to be unambiguous. But to always say that the lead lies with VWS? I think that the lead often lies with VWS, because it is about food safety. But depending on the situation, you'll have to see if the face is LNV or VWS. Again, I think it will often be VWS, but not always. This is not about the same face once and for all and everywhere, but about once and always and everywhere unambiguous communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u124	Of course, we all want one-sided communication. Communication must be unambiguous and there should not be too many channels communicating on the same subject. I'd like to specify something. If there is a major food crisis in which public health is at stake, of course that is what we have had in recent times, I would say that it belongs to VWS. Then that should be the face. Then media also know who to call, who to get for the camera, and then other websites and other services know who to get their information from, so that we don't have RIVM saying one thing and the NVWA then the other. It has to be one person, and as a Member of Parliament, I must be honest in saying that it has to be someone we can pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u125	So I think this is a little bit different, and I follow the study that has been carried out on the distribution of responsibility for food safety between the two departments. One of its recommendations is to ensure unambiguous communicatable division of labour, and I think that is a good point. So we will also have to practice them in crisis exercises.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u126	I would like to join with Mr De Groot's interruption, because that was also the final question in my contribution. Look, a crisis can happen. There may be an incident and then something may be wrong, but this crisis has raised the question of whether our system of monitoring and maintaining food safety and food quality is in control, whether it is of sufficient level and whether food quality and safety are systematically adequately guaranteed. My question to the Minister is whether he is firmly convinced that we are systematically talking about monitoring and maintaining food quality and that the services have sufficient human resources, resources and qualities to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u127	I'm gonna stop you right now. What I note is that you asked a lot of questions in your first term. The Minister has just made his introduction. You're actually repeating the questions of just now. Let me take a look, because if we now use the second deadline to actually repeat the first deadline in questions to the Minister, we will not be ready in an hour and a half and that was the intention. I give the floor to the Minister, but you had already asked the question and the Minister is about to answer the questions you had already asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u128	It is an important observation that our food safety system is robust. It's never finished at the same time. You have read in ABDTOPConsult's report about the division of labour between the two departments, that we do not say that we are dealing either one department or the other with the whole work. What matters is that this division of labour must be completely clear and clear. The moment there's no crisis, you have to exercise in it. You have to prepare the crisis manuals together. There's work to be done. For this we make progress reports. If I thought it was all done, I wouldn't have anticipated any progress reports at all. Then I would have said: it's done, we're done. You're never done at these kinds of points. There will always have to be a lot of interest, a lot of interest and a lot of energy from everyone in the chain, from the egg sector, the NVWA and the departments. Again, this system relies on self-regulation of private parties and the promotion of self-regulation. I believe that this is an active role that should come from both departments. I would like to make one comment on capacity. Mr Schouten will go into this in more detail. I believe that one of you just said it in the first term: you can double or triple the NVWA capacity, because there is plenty of work. The risk-oriented approach to NVWA's work is very appealing to me, so we will always have to find out on the basis of signals about risks. I note with some satisfaction that 52% of the monitoring capacity is spent on food safety by the NVWA, which is already more than last year. I hope we can continue that upward trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u129	It's always work in progress. There's always something to do. What I am talking about is also a central question for me in this debate: is our system of monitoring and maintaining food quality and safety systematically in control and in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u130	I would like to answer that question in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u131	Together with other colleagues, I have the word 'robust'. I really think that the Minister is saying this very clearly, even though we have seen another incident during that crisis. I mentioned those goji berries. Surely you can't say that we have a robust system and we have everything under control? We just didn't. And I still wonder if the NVWA can handle it if there are several things coming together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u132	Mrs. Van Brenn just put a sentence on it. I think we have a robust food safety system, but you will never be able to guarantee 100% that you have everything under control. I have just said that in my introduction. That phrase must not be forgotten. There will always be risks. Detecting those risks in good time is an important task for all three parties, i.e. the sector, the NVWA and the departments. Mr. Chairman. I have already answered a number of questions, but not all of them, of course. I'm gonna try to be short. If I miss a little, I'll find out in the second term. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the actions launched by industry. I have appointed some of them. Of course, they're all in Mrs. Sorgdrager's report. If Mrs Dik-Faber's question actually raises the question of whether we are working actively enough, then I would like to give the answer that the egg sector is also working very hard. The proof must be provided during the year, if that IKB Egg can be registered with Ketenborging.nl. I think that's a really important step. But also such a fact that the Dutch Food Industry Federation is part of this, is part of it and is involved in IKB Egg; I think that practical steps forward, just as I think it is a practical step forward that we are working on a fraud hotline or a incident hotline in the sector. And they have to become part of an IKB Egg. I think that is good news and I hope that we can continue to provide this evidence with the upcoming progress reports. Mrs Dik-Faber also said that the Sorgblader committee believes that the government is responsible and should work to ensure a better link between the commitment of business and the supervisory tasks. Mrs Dik-Faber agreed and asked if we would agree with that. That's the case. I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u133	But not all of Mrs Dik-Faber's questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u134	No, but that is not the intention either, Mr President, because of course there are two speakers here in Box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u135	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u136	But if there's one more question open to me, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u137	We're gonna hear that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u138	We're gonna hear that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u139	Another small floor with the Minister of Medical Care. He said: we're going to see it this year when IKB Egg is registered with Ketenborging.nl. Of course we all hope that will happen. At the same time, the criticism of the Sorgdrager committee was also that the government could do more to move private quality systems across the board to join Ketenborging.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u140	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u141	In fact, the government could do more to get these quality systems in order. In fact, the committee also says: the government simply didn't do enough, because in 2018 and in my opinion at the moment, there is no quality system of Dutch soil that is registered by Ketenborging.nl. I think others have also pointed this out. So what is the Minister going to do to promote this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u142	For all IKBs I find it very difficult, but for this one we are part of the consultations that are held twice a year with "the egg sector." There we do this appeal to make progress to get that IKB Egg registered this year. I believe that the next consultation with the sector is sometime this week or next week. So that's an active attitude you can expect from the government to ask the sector the following: go ahead with the IKB Egg and register at Ketenborging.nl. So that's where you can expect that active attitude from both departments. I just said it in a different way: self-regulation is not left to the sector, but is, as far as we are concerned, an active attitude to encourage self-regulation to be given a good place in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u143	I fully agree with those last words of the Minister. I also believe that private quality systems can play an important role in our entire food safety system. At the same time, the Minister says: we are now involved in IKB Egg and I find it difficult to define how our involvement towards other quality systems is. I must honestly say that I do not know the answer today either, but I do see that the Sorgdrager committee indicates that there are many quality systems that are not registered with Ketenborging.nl and could not pass the test of criticism. However, public authorities are called upon to challenge the sector to take steps in this regard. So I don't know exactly how either, but that appeal from the Sorgblader committee is there. I challenge the Minister to work there, not only for IKB Egg but also for other quality systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u144	I very much agree with that. I believe that six or so have been registered and there are still about five in the pipeline. That registration on Ketenborging.nl can only be done if you reach that high level. In addition, the NVWA has a role to play in making sure that registration is possible. In addition to these six plus five, it will be possible to seduce other sectors to make pace with taking steps in the direction of Ketenborging.nl. So I am not cleaning up that action, but I think that this progress should be addressed, for example, in our progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u146	Then I come to Mr Geurts. Following on from the recommendation, there is talk of registration and standardisation. All well, Mr Geurts said, but really important is that the red flag messages are immediately noticed and followed up. How does the Minister take care of that? I just said: what the NVWA has really organised better is that signals come in at one point. That's a big help. In addition, it helps that there's a team behind it that weighs the reports. What is the hardest must weigh the hardest and must be dealt with first. That helps, too. Thirdly, progress must be monitored. It must not be the case that these signals go into the organization somewhere and that you will never hear from it again. This progress must be monitored systematically. I think that's a plus. I think that's a win. A second question from Mr Geurts in my direction: was it necessary to handle the acceptable daily intake child, while other countries did not? Mr Geurts himself pointed out that the Buro, part of the NVWA, at the time made that assessment for children, who made other countries in a different way. That is all I can say. They are the scientists of the BuRO, who at the time made that assessment on the basis of their expertise and their knowledge. The fact that this has been weighed in a different way in another country is undesirable, but it cannot be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u147	Mr Geurts, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u148	It is a very important point in itself, because that would mean that until today other countries have a different value and that these eggs can lie here in the Dutch shelves, while our farmers cannot remove them from their yard, because they do not meet the value here. And then we are within a Europe! I understand that there is no answer to that today, but it cannot be that you have different values in such a market, in which eggs are also transported to the Netherlands. So I assume the Minister is taking action on that right now. Either the Netherlands will stop using this value or other European countries will apply the Dutch value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u149	It shall be considered whether the MRL value, the maximum residue level, exceeds, on the one hand, the limit value for a short-term exposure that is just safe for the acute risk............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In the event of an excess of the acute risk, a public warning shall be issued for the parties concerned. The Netherlands also advised parents of children not to give children eggs that exceeded the ADI. That is the ADI for children. That was done on the advice of Buro. In his opinion, Buro took into account the length of time contaminated eggs were on the market and consumption as a table egg but also as a raw material. The Member States have not made the same assessments in the same way. They have all used the same interpretation document from the European Commission. It will therefore always be important for BuRO's scientists in the Netherlands and those in Belgium, Germany and other countries in Europe to share this information with each other. And that they stick to the same standards, I say in the direction of Mr Bishop. It seems to me very sensible that they should stick to the same MRL, which we have set throughout Europe. We shouldn't mess with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u150	That's a fair answer. Unfortunately, I have that knowledge and I can say that this answer is correct. I wish I hadn't had that knowledge at all. But what matters now is that the Netherlands does apply heavier standards than other European countries, with all the consequences. That can't be the case, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u151	I believe that such a debate in Europe should continue on the basis of interpretation documents which scientists from different countries should continue to share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u152	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u153	Mr President, I will try not to place too many interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u154	Everyone gets three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u155	It is a good answer in itself, but you can see that a political decision in other countries is different. What you see in the Netherlands is what Mrs Lodders and I are already working on is that Buro operates independently here and that there will be no political consideration after that. I think that's a serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u156	I understand Mr Geurts' point very well, but on the other hand I also think it is important that the Buro scientists should be able to carry out their task and that, in the European context, that dialogue between the various parties, between the different agencies, should continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u157	In itself, I do agree with the CDA and the VVD that you should also take political decisions about this and that you should not hide that vaguely from the maintainer, because then you will also have a discussion about it. That's what it turns out to be. But then I do have a different angle: I think we should use the safest level. And then I worry about Member States that sit higher and products that can be sold in the Netherlands. What action will the Minister take to ensure that we can guarantee food safety for children at the safest level?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u158	I'm gonna stick to the MRL. That is a European standard. I think it would be wise to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u159	Also on this point. I think there's been enough questions. I actually hear the Minister say that he wants to stick to the MRL as set by the scientists in Europe. Perhaps that is something to come back to and perhaps to shape further in the debate on NVWA, because I think the starting point should be that if there are scientists who advise a value, we will stick to it throughout Europe and that is the case for all products produced in Europe and put on the market in Europe. Perhaps the Minister should consider this as a pre-announcement unless he wishes to send another written confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u160	I think it would be very good to reconsider this in the next debate. If there's a need, please. I would, however, like to continue to make the point that I consider the MRL as a European standard of great importance and that I would not like to work on it. But we can talk about that further. This is the view I would like to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u161	Very briefly. I know the Minister doesn't mean it, but now it seems like I'd like to mess with the MRL. That is by no means the case. I want all eggs entering the supermarket to meet the European MRL standard for all products in the Dutch shelves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u162	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u163	Of course, there is a certain degree of caution in such an MRL, but my question was: if we now see what the effect is, is it not wise to look at and compare proportionally and in this way to arrive at a less arbitrary determination of the permitted MRL and to arrive at a more proportionate approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u164	As far as I am concerned, the MRL is the operational standard. That is also my conclusion from Mrs Sorgdrager's report. This is about the definition of 'proportional'. It says that the NVWA has taken functional and appropriate measures based on the agreed standard in Europe: the MRL. I think that is a proportional standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u165	My point of proportionality is one step ahead. Once you meet those standards, you must indeed take appropriate measures. You can still discuss that, I'll let that rest. I am concerned that if you say in one case that safety must be guaranteed in such a way and in the other case you say that it is significantly less safe, there is no consistency in the caution clause. This proportionality is lacking. My question to the rulers was whether they were prepared to talk about this within the EU framework and see if you could come up with a more balanced system and package.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u166	Mr Schouten will have to say something about it later; we did not discuss this in such a way. I believe that maintaining the European MRL standard is very important. I'd like to continue it. That seems important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u167	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u168	Mr. Chairman. One more question from Mr Geurts' speech: what would happen if there were another crisis? I sincerely hope that we will not have such an incident, such a crisis. I believe that there is much more cooperation on several points, for example in the egg sector. I believe that the parties are really on the right track there and are taking an active stance to ensure that food safety in the egg chain is properly safeguarded. I think that is a step forward. I think that on the NVWA side it is very important that detection and surveillance find each other much easier. I also think it is a step forward that, in addition to the unambiguous and uniform entry and weighing of signals, monitoring and detection, it is much easier to find each other. I think it might be a little too homely to say that the two departments do not want to leave matters such as food safety to NVWA or industry, but want to continue to play an active role in this. It must not be each on his own and each for his own, but it must be done together. I think that's how we reduced the risks there. So far. Then towards Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals. Mrs Ouwehand's speech centred on the fact that she was not okay with the system. We really have a different view of that. I think our system is good at its core. We want to work on improvement. One of the examples I have just given is the division of responsibility between the two departments. So we shouldn't make a whole swing to one department or another. We need to look precisely at the interface between the two departments in terms of hygiene, microbiological criteria and the Food Regulation. We must try to remove these uncertainties and ensure that there is seamless cooperation. I think we are on the right track with that. Then I come to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks' speech. In her contribution several compliments were given, but not a compliment to the cabinet, because Mrs Bromet wondered what the cabinet had done since the publication of the report, in June. I believe that the Food Safety Action Plan and the way in which we follow it should lead to an active attitude, which will not only extend to today, but will continue in the coming period. Mrs Bromet's speech also raised the question of whether or not there is a problem with the allocation of powers. As I said earlier, there is not a major problem but there are a number of uncertainties which we believe should be removed at this interface between the two departments. ABDTOPConsult has made seven recommendations, which appeal to me very much, but we still have to implement them further. That as a sort of final piece there is something about annual crisis exercises and taking communication at hand, not when there is a crisis but in a cold situation, so to speak, that is a practical way of working. Then you meet, then you talk about it and then it's like Scheveningen fish: every year better. I hope that this is the result of that action. Ms Van Brenk of 50PLUS argued that before the fipronil crisis there was already a manual from the NVWA for incident and crisis management. If that manual was not followed properly, it was about Mrs Van Brenk's question. I think that the fipronil incident has taught us that it is necessary to draw up a specific manual for incident and crisis management in relation to food safety, and that is what we are doing. As a result of the fipronil incident, the NVWA has made a roadmap, called: Food safety incidents, which was put into operation in 2018. That too is not something that is made once and then ready and never anything else, but you will have to tighten that up by means of the annual exercises. I think that's the handy way of doing things. She also asked about coordination in Europe. This must be done in the Netherlands and also in Europe. The last exercise in Europe was last November. Again, we will have a certain routine, although that is a dangerous word here, or get a certain blow from it by continuing to do so regularly. Mrs Van Brenk also asked about the seven recommendations of the report Together in the chain of ABDTOPConsult. She also asked who's responsible. We're responsible. How do you see the progress? You can read it in that progress report. Is it all going fast? That which can be fast, goes fast. The evidence we provide, I hope, is sufficient in the progress reports to you. Some areas may require legislation and we will then announce it in that progress report. There were a few questions in D66's speech. Mr De Groot's first question was whether "you and I," as he said, ate fipronil eggs in autumn 2017. He asked if the Minister was aware of this. Well, I wasn't aware that you ate those eggs, because I simply don't know, but the chance that I ate them is of course present, because fipronil is a persistent substance, which is difficult to remove from the whole stable. If it's still somewhere, whether in a corner or not, it could lead to contamination of eggs. We'll soon agree that we find that fipronil doesn't belong in it. But it's being measured. A lot has been measured in 2017 and 2018. It's being measured to this day. But that is, of course, to measure on a random basis. We don't have every egg on the inside and the outside. So it doesn't give 100% certainty. And I would like to point out that there is still a measure uncertainty, as is the case with speeding offences. Therefore, there is a risk that eggs from released stalls are contaminated and are above the MRL standard. Based on the monitoring over the years, we see that fewer and fewer situations occur in which there is fipronil. That's a good thing. It's a tricky thing. We will have to continue to work to ensure that the fipronil does not appear on the shelves or on the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u169	I think this is a very problematic answer. In the autumn of 2017, the NVWA took samples of eggs that were on the shelves. Just for convenience, it's the minister who does that. In one egg in every four or five, depending on the sampling; let's say 20% of the residue limit was exceeded. For the measurement uncertainty, to which the Minister refers, the official standard was taken twice as much: 0.01. The question is: has the Minister allowed consumers, you and I, in autumn 2017, to eat one in five eggs on a large scale that did not meet a European standard without doing anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u170	Of course, it is not allowed, but it is very risk-oriented supervision. The NVWA worked on this in 2017, in 2018 and this year. Fortunately, on the basis of the sampling carried out in recent years, there have been fewer and fewer cases of samples above the MRL at both farms and supermarkets. As has already been said, there are still blocked companies. Even now, fipronil can be found in an egg. It wouldn't be right to say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u171	All true: risk-based supervision. But here the minister himself, the NVWA, has taken large-scale samples. It found that the European standard was exceeded, with a measurement uncertainty. That standard is therefore done twice twice, thus making 0.01 the standard........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then, having noted that, this Minister allowed the sale of those eggs to continue. I think that's a bad thing. I do not think that is an expression of a robust system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u172	There is, of course, no question of "allowing" at all. I'd like you to make sure you never come across any ever fipronil in eggs. Fipronil doesn't belong in eggs. We want that out, but the NVWA works with a form of risk-oriented supervision. That's the way it works. In 2017, many more samples were taken than in 2018. And fortunately, in the samples in 2017, 2018 and 2019, the number of eggs above MRL levels kept falling. I think that's a really good development. But of course, there's never any mention of allowing anything. There's always a risk that there's still fipronil in an egg. It is a persistent commodity; there is a measurement uncertainty. If I said otherwise, it wouldn't be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u173	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u174	Indeed, this minister allowed it while he was aware that those MRLs were being exceeded and he did not decide on any recall or other measures to counter it. So it is true that we have been allowed to eat fipronil eggs and that we, you and I, have eaten fipronil eggs. There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u175	No. I don't think it's allowed, but I want to be careful to put on too big pants and say that never can never be in an egg fipronil again. I wish it were. Fortunately, I note a downward trend, but it will always require an alert attitude from both the sector and the NVWA and the two departments. Mr. Chairman. There was another point in Mr De Groot's speech. He said that food safety can only be secured if private responsibility and public supervision are taken into account, that it is logical and natural for this to be linked and that chain assurance is intended for that purpose. He wanted a response from the Minister. I have not been in the Food Confidence Task Force, but the important combination made in 2013 remains a very sensible one, namely in the sector, NVWA and the departments. For all three recommendations have been made in Mrs Sorgdrager's report. That's what we've been working on. It's a combination of private and public. I don't think we're ever ready, but we're on the right track. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Moorlag of the PvdA. Have all the recommendations of Mrs Sorgdrager been accepted? Pretty much all of them. There's still a few more research questions. One of them is that you still need to get a response to the issue presented by Mrs Lodders, namely that Parliament is making the policy and that the NVWA is implementing it. In this case, this means that the NVWA supervises, so this is strictly separate and there is no policy role for the NVWA. We need to give you further information on this issue. That's what we're gonna do; I think next month. So we have not yet adopted the recommendation on this subject. It was a very clear point from Mrs Lodders, but one could say that there are still forms of policy in the supervision, so in the way in which supervision is monitored. Mrs Lodder does not think so, but we still need to clarify that point. The other question is what we do with the NCAE, so with the private tasks that are now organized separately from the NVWA. The question is whether you're part of the NVWA. That is a recommendation from Mrs Sorgbearer. We needed to find out what your views are in this debate. There are pluses and minuses to make. I think we need to clarify this debate. The NVWA is busy enough as it is. Therefore, it would be a good idea to release the NCAE from the NVWA. We need to clarify this in the course of this debate, but that is the point of view at the moment. That's the first thing. Then the chain on the government side. Is it okay? Yes. We've talked about that before. Mr Moorlag asked if we could ask Mrs Sorgdrager again to carry out an evaluation study in 2020. We wouldn't want that. However, we have said that we will first present a number of progress reports and then plan to carry out an evaluation ourselves if implementation has made some progress. Then the question of whether food safety is exclusive to VWS. No. I've been over that before. Then what Mr Moorlag referred to as the key question: does the NVWA have enough people and manpower? You can talk about that all day. The NVWA can focus on a huge number of themes. The NVWA has a certain working method and is looking for the main risks. Sometimes they are presented from society because there are signals. Sometimes a comment is made about it in the government agreement, for example when it comes to food safety and animal welfare. I think that there is always a restriction on the capacity of the NVWA and that always the question is whether you have enough people and manpower. It's always yes and it's always no, because you can't spark all spark plugs at the same time. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Bishop, who argued that more consultation is needed between NVWA and industry, because the NVWA might have been aware of, what is called, the miracle cure earlier. I do believe, as I have said before, that a core element has changed in NVWA's working methods: the two disciplines of supervision and detection are now working much better together. Strengthening has also taken place in the cooperation between NVWA and the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is much more intensive contact between sector and NVWA; this is also necessary and this is seen by both sides. I therefore believe that both sides see the importance of more consultation, as I say in the direction of Mr Bishop. So we should not rely on informal contacts, as described in Mrs Sorgdrager's report. I very much agree with that and I know that the NVWA very much agrees with that. That is why we are trying to make practical cooperation agreements between the different parties. I have talked about the issue of proportionality. I have also mentioned the question of whether there is sufficient capacity at NVWA, although I would have mentioned Mrs Schouten's name, so perhaps I have said things that Mrs Schouten thinks very differently, but we will hear that in a moment. Oh, no, we speak with one mouth; what a blessing. I have now gone into keeping NCAE and NVWA separate. Mr Futselaar made a comment on the Chamber's correspondence. He quoted the letter of 3 August 2017. I also see that the Chamber Correspondence did not go smoothly during the fipronil incident in August 2017. In the hectic way of the incident, it has been difficult to send all the information to you correctly and at the right time. Fortunately, some corrections have been made during the period before the Parliamentary debate in August 2017 and you have been informed as much as possible about the facts that were known at that time. The phrase in the letter of Parliament that there was no reason to believe that fipronil would end up in eggs and then the oral communication about this to the press and in RTL and NOS broadcasts has led to confusion. Due to a subtle difference in formulation, the image may have been wrongly created which was not known that fipronil can generally be found in eggs. We can imagine that it was thought that this meant that NVWA thought that fipronil could not get into eggs. However, the NVWA knew from a scientific point of view that fipronil could come into eggs and meat, but had no clarity about actual use of fipronil in the sector on the basis of the signals at the end of 2016. I had prepared this answer in such a way, because I thought this question would be asked, and I think it is important to be specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u176	Before I give Mr Futselaar the floor for an interruption, I am going to suspend for a moment, because there will be a change of chairman and I would like to tell the new President how far you are. Just give me a few seconds, then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u177	Mr President, if you give me one minute, I will be done with my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u178	Oh, that's even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u179	I would like to make one more comment about the enlightened regime of IKB Egg. That has indeed existed for a while, but that has been abolished as of January 2018. I say this in the direction of Mr Futselaar. I would also like to make a point about Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u180	We shall begin with an interruption by Mr Futselaer of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I have two more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u182	Yes, you can tell me anything right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u183	The first concerns the Minister's words on communication and the letter of 3 August et cetera. Thanks for admitting that it didn't go smoothly. I might have used something different myself, but it comes down to the same thing. I'd like to specify. Of course, it is also important that it was not reported to the Chamber that the NVWA had already been notified of fipronil in 2016. It is true that the Chamber was informed about this later in the debate in August. But then the Minister forgets to say that the Belgian Parliament was previously informed in public, that it was in the Dutch newspapers and that we all thought: 'Hey, what is going on here?' So I would almost say that at that time the government did not have much choice but to inform us about it. But with that context, I accept the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u184	But this was still a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u185	Doesn't the Minister agree? But I still have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u186	I'd like to be faster than the Belgians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u187	Mr. Fuzzelaar, your other interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u188	I think the Minister was done answering my point. I had made another point about the NVWA's working methods. The Minister has already said that all reports are now coming in at the centre and that progress is being monitored, so to speak. I said in my speech that this is also about the decision and that it is about supporting a decision in the event of a notification. So what do we do with it? Even if you don't do anything with it, you still have to explain why. Is that currently secured within the NVWA? That is also something that the Sorgbrugger committee says has failed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u189	The answer is yes. Yeah, there's a progress check. Signals and notifications can go a different route within the NVWA. But there's a beginning and there's an end to a signal and a notification. I have said before that it is not just about reporting, signaling and monitoring progress, but also about weighing the signals. Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment, and I would like to make it in the direction of Mrs Lodders of the VVD. I hope that the way in which we gave you the Food Safety Action Plan shows that food safety is an incredibly important priority for the departments but also for the NVWA. I would point out that 52% of the monitoring capacity goes to food safety. I do not want to say that this is proof of that, but it shows that we both take it very, very seriously. I also think it is equally important that we do not talk about systems and general issues. I have tried, in my reply, to be particularly practical about the way in which the various parties cooperate. I would like to point out that progress reports can provide proof of this good cooperation and that, with regard to crisis exercises, there is not only theorisation but also practical implementation of an incredibly important issue, namely food safety. Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u190	Thank you. I see that you still have an interruption from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u191	It is rather a point of order. I also asked a question about the mixing of pollution by mixing fipronil eggs and clean eggs as intermediate products for the processing industry. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u192	You can't do that. Mr De Groot is right. I've also prepared the answer, but I don't have it right now. So if you will allow me to return to this one question after Mr Schouten's speech, I am very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u193	I think that would be wise, because that will be answered in the first period. I call the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u194	Mr. Chairman. I think my colleague Bruins has already answered a lot of questions. For the sake of clarity, I would also like to add to his introduction, in which he said that in the summer of 2017 there was just an incredible amount of concern about food safety, and that we received a good and solid report from the Sorgblader Committee on Food Safety. Thank you from my side too! I think we can learn a lot from that. But I also know from recent visits that it is still some sort of trauma to some farmers, which is still very deep. So in all areas it is, I think, a situation that we should avoid wherever possible. We must also realise that we cannot guarantee that, but at least we must take our role to minimise that risk. Mr. Chairman. I shall go straight on to a number of questions that have been asked by your Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u195	Minister Schouten agrees with the introduction. It said that the system is robust. My question to this minister is then how she knows that. Maybe I should be more specific. The Sorgblader committee is actually cutting off the whole system. Does this minister insist that the system was also robust at the time of the fipronil incident?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u196	I have the impression that Mr De Groot is trying to drive some sort of wedge between the words of my colleague Bruins and what I... I haven't even said anything about that! It was not his introduction, it was Mr Bruins' answer to your question. Let me put it this way: I think that in general, as the Sorgdrager committee says, food safety in the Netherlands is of a high level. That is the first conclusion of the Sorgblader Committee. Next, the Sorgbrugger committee notes that there are still some improvements to be made and that at the time of the fipronil crisis we were really pressed with our noses on a number of facts. So I think the answer is twofold. Our food safety level in the Netherlands is high. And I'm not saying that, that's what the Sorgblader committee says. But is there room for improvement, should it be improved on parts and is that also in the system? Yes. I believe that this is exactly what we are doing now and why we take very seriously the recommendations of the Sorgbrugger committee. Mr. Chairman. A few questions. Both members of the Christian Union and the CDA and the SGP have asked about the court cases and the fact that invoices still have to be sent to the farmers. I decided earlier not to send those invoices while the lawsuit's still going on. As you know, there is a trial going on right now and that is why that is something we must take into account. But I also think it is nice not to send those invoices during that trial, and I will not. I have already answered a question from a number of Members. Mrs. Dik-Faber asks what's going on with the blood lice investigation. Is there already a view on a safe and effective means, she asks. The survey Bird mite handling in poultry started in June 2018. It started at the WUR in Wageningen and continues for a while. It will, I hope, be ready in the course of 2019 and, of course, I will inform you of the results as soon as they are available. A considerable number of members have asked questions, actually almost everyone has, about the avv'en of the IKB Egg. Firstly, Mrs Dik-Faber, but also CDA and PvdA. I have heard several people, including Mrs Lodders. There's a lot of abbreviations in there. But it means declaring a chain guarantee to be universally binding, i.e. quality assurance. We have a joint working group of the government and the egg sector, and it is running. We also look very closely at how that IKB can be strengthened and what is needed for that. The option of the avv is also considered where necessary. Of course, we're still working on that. An avv must be requested by the parties themselves. It is not the case that we are going to impose an avv or something like that; there must first be a good application, which is also of good quality. As soon as that application comes in, I'll seriously assess it to see what I can do with it. The working party is also working on this, so we will also have to look at what comes out of it. A number of members, including Mrs Dik-Faber, asked whether the NVWA was prepared for a crisis. Mr Bruins has already said a few things about this. A somewhat larger question is always: how many crises can you cope with as an organisation at the same time? There's no way to say that in advance. It also has to do with the nature, extent and duration of a crisis. If there is a crisis and if there is a need to act quickly, we have seen it in the past; it has happened more often than not. This sometimes means that certain activities in a regular task elsewhere may not be the highest priority, because there is a greater need elsewhere. That flexibility must have an organisation like the NVWA, and so does she. In doing so, you try to ensure the best possible response to crises when there are at the same time. How much can you handle at the same time, was also asked. It's hard to answer that question in advance. There are some experiences with crises, unfortunately; you always prefer to avoid them. My colleague has just indicated that we now have exercises and so on, to learn more from them. So it's an ongoing process that you're still working on. As far as I'm concerned, we have to keep doing the same thing. We can't lose sight of that. Mr Geurts asked how confident I am that future crises can be dealt with properly. Mrs Bromet asked the same question, I believe. We have the recommendations of the Sorgblader Committee. Many actions have already been taken, and some have already been completed. With each other, the sector, both departments and the NVWA, we have also looked closely at the crisis manuals, evaluated them and adjusted them where necessary. Mr Bruins has indicated that we are also in the process of establishing a CFSO that will ensure proper coordination with abroad during a crisis. You have the domestic side, but you also have the foreign side. We have also agreed on internal and external communication, a point for which Mr Bishop also asked for attention. We are now making sure that the sector itself looks very critically at their own systems, quality assurance and the requirements of Ketenborging.nl. I'll go into that in a minute. With all these things combined, I believe that we have learned again for future crises, should they occur; I hope they do not. Again, this isn't something you're suddenly done with. It's always something to stay alert. In doing so, I think I also gave Mr Geurt's answer, which asked what else would happen in the event of a crisis. I have just mentioned a number of steps which emerge from the report of the Sorgblader Committee and with which we have learned some lessons. Mr Geurts also asked about the recommendations for the Fipronil Communication Point drawn up in the Gelderse Valley. I myself have received those who have established that hotline. I've had a conversation with them and received their findings. I must say, I was impressed by how they acted in those days. There was still a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty. I am pleased to see that parties have taken up their role locally. Among other things, the mayor and people around him have done the same. This has led to a number of recommendations. One of these recommendations was included in the Food Safety Action Plan and concerned improvements at NVWA. One of the recommendations was about the disposal of manure. I informed your Chamber on 8 June of how I dealt with it. Other recommendations concern compensation. I just indicated that legal proceedings are now under way. So I am not going to make all kinds of statements about compensation. Nor is it in the interests of that case. So I am not going to anticipate that, given the legal procedures. Mr Geurts also asked how I deal with the poultry manure that is still blocked on several heirs. Indeed, there are still a number of farms where the manure is blocked. It concerns 16 companies and 32 stables. The NVWA, together with AVINED, sent a letter to the companies concerned in which they offered to assist in the release of those companies. The NVWA has offered to help AVINED. Only a small number of companies responded. The NVWA periodically looks at what is going on in each company if no samples are requested. There is a protocol on how farm manure can be sampled and disposed of below the standard. An undertaking may mix the contaminated manure with its own manure if it falls below the standard after testing. Those are all steps that still play. There is a good cooperation between NVWA and AVINED, but companies still have to react if they want something with it. Mr Geurts also asked about the involvement of retail in the IKB Egg Reinforcement Working Group. The retail business is not in the working group itself. However, at the start of the working group there was a discussion about the participation of the retail sector. In particular, AVINED's wish was to keep the working group small and to involve the retail sector indirectly. However, the business participants maintain contact with retail in that working group. The CBL and the FNLI are in the administrative consultation egg chain and also have an action in the action plan, in which they recommend the use of Ketenborging.nl among their supporters. I come to Mrs Ouwehand's questions. She had a more fundamental argument about the system. She referred to the debate at the time in the summer of 2017. She had two more concrete comments, or in my opinion asked for a reflection on two points. How did we handle the manure? She spoke of 'environmental fraud'. That's a pretty big word, I must say. She claimed that the NVWA would have participated. She also asked about the support given to the sector at the Grüne Woche; why and what was that done? As regards manure, the standard was established on the basis of RIVM's advice. Manure under the standard may be disposed of from the holding. At some point there were also accumulations on companies, with all the risks involved, including with regard to public health. There could also have been a brewing process. We have a responsibility for all these things to take good steps. There was also a request, or indeed a cry for help, from the mayors and from the sector itself: what are the opportunities to do about it? Then I decided to allow the homogenisation of the manure on a farm if the removal of the manure would only come under the permitted standard. Above the norm could then be burned, which also happened in one place in Moerdijk, and Weurt temporarily joined. In short, we have looked closely at these standards. There are also frameworks in which this may take place, so that is how we have acted. Then there is the support for the sector at the Grüne Woche. To be precise, we have made €12,500 available to give the egg sector the opportunity to be present at the Grüne Woche. Germany is an important market for eggs. There were images, ideas about what the eggs would be like from the Netherlands. We then created the possibility that the egg sector there could show that the products coming from the Netherlands were and still are good. We did indeed help with a very small amount at the time. If I have to reflect on that: I think that is very justifiable, given the situation in which the egg sector was at that time and also to show that confidence in our production is and remains good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u197	There is a natural silence for Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u198	It's always a short one. About the protocol the NVWA worked on. We fought for a long time to get fipronil banned, because it's a supertoxic substance, similar to neonicotinoids. In the end, that would have worked, but then there's a toxic substance and the NVWA is working on a protocol that doesn't take that toxic substance out of the environment, but dilutes it and still brings it into the environment. I can only point out that the government is actively involved in bringing a substance into the environment when we had just decided that it was not such a good idea, for example because of bee mortality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u199	We have looked at what would be an acceptable standard for that. This applies to almost all substances. Very often it is not just about the type of substance, but about the amount and extent of release. That is often the whole discussion with a lot of resources. We have asked RIVM what an acceptable standard for that. On the basis of that standard, we have said: if the homogenised manure falls below that standard, then it is allowed. We've really asked for a basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u200	Can the Minister at least acknowledge that fipronil, like neonicotinoids, is a kind of supertoxin that breaks down very slowly, that we have a huge task to do to stop the loss of biodiversity, that it does not help as on top of the substances that have been used for far too long in agriculture there is even more fipronil, that it takes a long time before that is broken down and that it has effects in the soil?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u201	An example was just mentioned that fipronil is also used on many other things, so the substance is not prohibited by definition. It's where you apply it. We have seen in the whole fipronil incident that it can be above standards in eggs and in stables and that that is not good. But in the end, it's always about whether it's above or below the norm. That's all that matters. We have asked what is an acceptable standard in which that can be allowed. We have based ourselves on that, RIVM has given a ruling on it and I have acted on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u202	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u203	Yes, very briefly, to avoid any misunderstandings. We have already asked for other uses of these toxic substances. You just don't want to do that: on flea straps and in ant decoy boxes. You shouldn't. The Minister may not mean it that way, but at least I want to clear up the misunderstanding that we are okay with those other uses of neonics and fipronil. This must also be done by the market, because that too will indeed end up in the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u204	That's a new definition of short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u205	That's more of a statement from Mrs. Ouwehand. Then I come to Mrs Bromet's questions. She is asking for self-regulation. She has a view on self-regulation. I always try to interpret Mrs Bromet's words, which sometimes goes wrong, but I try to do it right. She asked if there was an alternative to self-regulation, because she thought it was a bit like the butcher who approves his own meat, if I may say so. Let me go back to what the Sorgblader Committee says about who is first responsible for food safety. That's the producer. That is the first person to ensure that the food is safe and has a responsibility in it. We have a system in which monitoring is also carried out, we are looking at whether this is actually the case and whether everyone can say that their food meets the requirements that we make of it. The point is that in order to ensure that these standards are actually met by those producers, you can have a certain degree of self-regulation. The point is whether you can guarantee each other that the standard you have agreed on will be met. Self-regulation is a tool for this. That is actually a tool for the proper implementation of those legal requirements for food safety. This can then be taken back into account by the government in the supervision. If you don't have that self-regulation, you're going to put incredibly much into supervision, and with that you're actually taking almost a part of the responsibility away from where you think there should be. I don't think that's the only thing. That's what the Sorgblader committee says. So I see many possibilities for self-regulation, provided that it meets the right requirements. That is the debate that is currently taking place on, for example, chain assurance and that sort of thing. I therefore believe that we should do so, and the Sorgblader committee itself says so. In the action plan, we have worked out a number of measures to improve the form of promotion and the strengthening of private security. Mrs Bromet then asks if all quality systems are accepted at Ketenborging.nl. There are now six quality schemes accepted at Ketenborging.nl and five schemes are under discussion. This concerns, among other things, the calf sector and the pig sector. With regard to IKB Egg there is now a route to get approval for Ketenborging.nl and we expect that to be around April. It is therefore not the case that all quality systems are now accepted. In fact, those requirements for Ketenborging.nl are quite high. We want that too, because you have to be able to trust that if you sit there, you'll be able to meet those standards. It sometimes requires the sectors themselves to take some action to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u206	Eleven sectors are now mentioned on that website. Is that all the sectors out there? Does the Minister consider it desirable that all sectors should be included on that website and what resources does it have to achieve? I just heard her fellow minister say that we are going to actively encourage it and we are not going to leave it all to the sector. But what if the sector doesn't? Or if a sector doesn't? So what's the leverage we have as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u207	Whether they're all on the website or at Ketenborging.nl depends on whether they're getting the quality we want. If you insist, everyone, and certainly the supervisor, should be able to assume that you meet a certain standard. I also heard the question of whether we could force them to participate. I'd say you want them to have that quality level. I do not want them to be obliged at Ketenborging.nl if they do not meet the standard, because then the whole idea of self-regulation is gone. We are currently talking to the sectors. We have also sent a letter to the vegetable and animal sectors to indicate: good people, take care of your quality systems, make sure they are at the level and make sure that this self-regulation has real substance there. We are still engaged in these discussions, including with those sectors. That way we try to really move them to get there. And then the public oversight also takes into account whether or not those quality systems are accepted. This may in turn lead to an adapted supervisory regime. So you not only use the stick, but also the root, because it can also lead to an adapted supervisory regime, and in that sense to an advantage that they experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u208	May I also ask the Minister to be brief? We have a very long night ahead of us. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u209	This is making me a little restless anyway. It's about food safety. Everyone says that food safety is at the top and we all want it. Then we're gonna settle that by having it monitored by the sector itself. And if the sector doesn't, then we're gonna set up tighter surveillance. That all feels a bit bit snappy to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u210	No, it's actually, I think, the other way around. There's surveillance. That's what's important. If you have a quality system that is also recognised, which therefore meets the standards, it can lead to an adapted supervisory regime, i.e. an enlightened regime. It's not like there's no surveillance and that's causing a very big hole. We want that level up. We believe that the sectors themselves are at stake in this. We're helping them with that and we're also thinking about how they can do that. But they have to live up to it themselves. After that, the supervisor can also take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u211	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u212	That is a bit of a reply to Mr De Groot's question. He had questions about that, too. He called the registration of Ketenborging a "schimmy process." At that time IKB Ei reported to the NVWA for the review of the criteria of Ketenborging.nl. That was before the whole fipronil incident, by the way. At that time it was not of such a level that it could be approved. That's what they've been pulling back into. In September 2018, IKB Egg re-reported to the NVWA for the review. The NVWA also indicated the improvements that had to be made. IKB Egg is now working on making those adjustments. And I was just saying that they're expected to be able to sign up in April with an improved system. IKB PSB follows after that. On the Ketenborging.nl website it is transparent which quality systems have been accepted and which are under discussion. I just mentioned that six have been accepted and five are being processed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u213	They've already come forward. On Ketenborging.nl there is a category for the systems that have reported, but that does not include IKB Egg. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u214	I didn't get a good look at the website, I have to say, but this is really the state of affairs around IKB Egg. They're in the process; let's just put it this way. And they're going to the final application. I don't know what that website looks like. I should take a look at that. Mrs Van Brenk also asked about this self-regulation. I think I reported that. We are now also in conversation with LTO and the Stichting Ketenborging.nl how we can also provide support for improvement projects. We will also keep you informed about the progress of these actions through the progress reports that Mr Bruins has already mentioned. So you will receive the first progress report in April. A number of members, including Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS, but also Mrs Lodders of the VVD, have asked questions about the strengthening of NVWA. Is there sufficient force at the NVWA and does the NVWA have sufficient resources? Additional funds have been allocated to the NVWA in the coalition agreement. This has resulted in a structural allocation of EUR 5 million in the budget from 2019 onwards, and a further EUR 4 million in 2019 on a case-by-case basis. The total budget of the NVWA will be around 350 million euros in 2019. In 2019, the NVWA will be able to use around 45 fte in total 80 fte and from 2020 onwards, on food safety and animal welfare. These are also the priorities identified in the coalition agreement. Because that investment runs in parallel with previously booked efficiency improvements, these additional FTEs do not increase the NVWA in an enormous amount. Only, these are the means to keep the NVWA in place. Mr Bruins has just indicated that people are joining the IOD. There will also be additional administrative and digital supervision, resources for strengthening knowledge building and risk interpretation, and means for the disclosure of enforcement results. These are all things that the resources are being used for. There are also remaining resources from the coalition agreement that have not yet been deployed. As soon as the studies of the ADR are available, I have already reported this to your Chamber, and we will take them into account in our consideration, so that we can understand the financial bottlenecks in the best possible way and see where we should make the effort. And it is true that we are using 52% of the funds in 2019 for food safety. Mr Moorlag also had a question about the money. I have just indicated how we have shaped this. Mr Bishop asked about the exchange of information with the sector. There must be a good interaction so that everyone knows where he is and what the situation is. The NVWA makes agreements with the owners of the quality systems accepted on Ketenborging.nl on how to share information well. The NVWA and IKB Egg also look forward to the acceptance on Ketenborging.nl which information exchange can be started earlier. In case of incidents, the NVWA can, if necessary, transmit information about individual companies to industry organisations, so that these companies can be informed and possibly also see what the necessary measures are. We must ensure that this is done, with the emphasis on the need to protect public health. Otherwise, you'll end up in all kinds of privacy discussions. But now the sector is also being carefully examined to see how this can be shaped. I have also just answered the question about the capacity of the SGP. The letter was addressed by Mr Bruins. The SP states that if sectors do not comply, it sticks a bit: the butcher who approves his own meat. I have just indicated how important it is for the sector itself to have responsibility for what it is doing, but at the same time we should put in place a good system of supervision alongside it, either with or vis-à-vis it, just what you want to call it. In this context, it is important that we draw the lessons from the Sorgdrager report. I have also just answered Mrs Lodder's question on avv's. She also asked about the implementation of her motion. During the budget debate, she tabled a motion in which she said that we should look at the separation of policies and implementation. What lies with the NVWA and what lies with the departments? We have asked ABDTOPConsult to focus on the situation surrounding policy making: what is real policy and what is really in implementation? We will probably send that report to the Chamber in April. If we can, we will try to do so more quickly, so that we can quickly start discussing the division of responsibility. So we're on it. We're also trying to get the best picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u215	Thank you for the commitment that the report will be sent to the Chamber in April. I look forward to that. Does the Minister share the analysis, which we also discussed in the 2019 budget debate, that the policy should actually be invested in the ministries and not in the NVWA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u216	I think that the Sorgbrugger committee itself has made some valuable comments on this. One of them is that we must indeed look carefully at what is the policy and what is the NVWA's. That's not always cut with scissors. Similarly, there are certain European issues that really lie with the supervisor. That's why we're doing that exercise right now to see what that division might look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u217	It is true that the Sorgblader Committee has also said something about this, but my question was: does the Minister share the analysis that policy and policymaking belong to the Ministry? That's one. The second concerns European standards. They are set at a different level. There is sometimes a need for an explanation, but that is also a choice. We will undoubtedly discuss this further, but it is a choice. It's about how that choice is made in the policy department. I'm just gonna give that to you. I would also like to have a debate on this with the Minister when standards are being interpreted. If that is broader than Europe actually proposes, I would like to be able to discuss it with a member of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u218	Let's take a good look at that in that report. Let us take a good look at the issues that have been identified and how we shape them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u219	But the first part of my question was: does the Minister share that policy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u220	The main point: yes. Let me put it this way. The only thing I can tell you is how that works and what that means for the division between the department and the NVWA is exactly what we are looking at through that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u221	I'll make sure that comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u222	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u223	Thank you. That was also necessary, because we did not really have the discussion about this during the budgetary procedure, because it was referred to this place. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u224	That's right. Sure. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u225	I look around and I see that that is indeed the case. Thank you for that. Then, if it is right, I shall return to the Minister for Medical Care for the answer of one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u226	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That was about the question of mixing away with eggs. That was Mr De Groot's question. You can't do that. The NVWA won't allow that. In my notes, I looked at how this procedure would proceed, namely: "Dilution by mixing clean eggs with contaminated eggs below the standard is not allowed. If a processing undertaking is confronted with a contaminated raw material, it should carry out a risk analysis to determine whether the egg products already produced are below the MRL. If below the MRL, the products do not need to be withdrawn from the market. If above the MRL, withdraw from the market. At the moment when the processor knows about a contamination, the operator must extend the entry control and extract contaminated raw materials from the production process. This means that the user must not use the dilution effect for new products to be produced." I just wanted to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u227	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the rulers. Mrs Dik-Faber is already coming forward. For a moment, I thought she was coming forward for an interruption, but she's not. Then we move on to the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering all the questions that have been asked. I think we've had a good debate with each other. Our food is safe. At the same time, we cannot rule out a crisis. Then it is good that there is a good system that guarantees food safety. Is it perfect? No, not yet. That is why we are working hard on the report of the Sorgdrager Committee. The OVV will also present a research report on the food safety system. I am sure that we will also discuss this with each other, even if it was only on the basis of the six-monthly reports that are still being sent to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I talked to the Minister for Medical Care about the chain quality systems and the registration in Ketenborging.nl. I understand that it is being worked hard and that both directors feel responsible for it and feel involved in it. I'm glad to hear that. I hope that this will also be included in the reports we will receive. Finally. I do not have a motion myself, but I did put the point of the NCAE: should it or should it not be placed under the NWVA? I can see from the sector that there are real hesitations. The Minister for Medical Care has also indicated that he shares these hesitations and that he probably doesn't think that is such a good idea either. There will be another motion tabled by the CDA with my name on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I shall now give the floor to Mr Geurts of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As announced by Mrs Dik-Faber and somewhat challenged by Minister Bruins the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas agreements on responsibilities and a sound exchange of information between NVWA and NCAE can be well established;]] [[Whereas the NVWA may not be entitled to all the controls currently carried out by NCAE and that this may lead to a reduction in quality controls;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the Dutch Control Authority for Eggs (NCAE) to exist in its current structure and not to be transferred to NVWA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr De Groot, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-539]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u231	Mr. Chairman. One more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the damage which the NVWA has caused has unnecessarily increased the costs for poultry farmers;]] [[noting that this relates in particular to the costs of sampling by NVWA and the waste levy for the disposal of manure for incineration;]] [[invites the Government to consult with the poultry sector on the exact scale of the above-mentioned costs and how these costs are handled towards the poultry farmers concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-540]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u232	Mr. Chairman. Last words on the final motion. I listened carefully to what the cabinet said about the legal procedure. I am still waiting for the reaction to this motion, but I think it is important to be able to follow up on how this process is going to proceed. I'll wait for the reaction. I may be holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u233	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Was it useful that the Sorgblader Committee made a number of procedural recommendations so that supervision could function a little better within the current system? Yeah, of course I do. But the real problem is that that was also funny about what Mrs Sorgdrager said about the fact that the way in which we think we can produce food actually goes beyond all limits. Mrs Sorgdrager said: strangely, the Netherlands is a huge exporter of food. Yeah, it's weird that you're a very small country and you have a huge food export. That means, as Mrs Sorgdrager said, that the system is susceptible to fraud anyway. That analysis is not new. Look at the incredible pace at which animals are slaughtered. It's 650 million animals a year. For example, when it comes to the slaughter of pigs, 700 pigs per hour on a slaughter line. You can imagine that it will not succeed in any way or with any task force or improvement plan to make it a healthy system. We're going to have a general discussion about the NVWA. I will tell the ministers that the Animal Party may want to think about it, because that AO is at the end of March that they reflect on those system changes that we need to make to ensure that supervision can actually function properly. It shouldn't be the patchwork we had to discuss again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u235	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u236	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to food safety, GroenLinks believes that it has to meet the highest standards. If there is self-regulation then the plans made by the sector must meet the highest standards. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the enhanced monitoring of self-regulation in the egg sector after the fipronil crisis should be an example of how to monitor self-regulation in other sectors;]] [[Whereas we have a good system with chainborging.nl where we have criteria for private quality systems;]] [[calls on the Government to have all self-regulatory quality systems on chainborging.nl by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-541]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u237	Mr. Chairman. I have not yet had such a satisfactory feeling of this debate, nor have I had the confidence that we could deal with several problems at the same time at NVWA. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at the time of the fipronil affair, the NVWA's capacity for food safety was inadequate, leaving some of the other controls absent;]] [[Whereas there have been no protocols for a long time for food safety incidents or crises;]] [[considers that food safety should be a high priority of the regulator;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to equip the NVWA to the best possible extent, so that crises and incidents can be adequately addressed and several crises and incidents can be dealt with at the same time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-542]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u239	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Groot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u240	Mr. Chairman. Two preliminary remarks. We had a discussion about what Minister Bruins opened, namely that the system was robust. Those were not my words, but the Minister's words. If you go into that, I assume that robust is the same thing as coherent. That makes sense to me. Sorgblader concludes on page 131 that there is currently no coherent system. That was the first point. The second point is that Sorgdrager's report is not about the system as a whole but about the eggs, so Minister Carola Schouten may also think about where she read that the whole system would be robust, as she said, in whatever terms. I am not saying this in order to win a word game, but because it is important, because we do not know how safe our food is at the moment, because the system has not improved after fipronil and because private and public do not crochet well. Hence this motion on participation in chain assurance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas industry is primarily responsible for food safety and that the public authorities monitor it;]] [[Considering that in the final report of the Food Confidence Task Force in April 2015, the government expressed the expectation that most scheme managers would have made the adjustments to their systems by the end of 2015 and that these systems could be accepted by January 2016;]] [[whereas according to the website chainborging.nl no Dutch quality system has yet been found good enough for recording by NVWA;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote participation in chain assurance of private quality systems and to inform the Court of Justice of the outcome achieved by January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-543]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u241	With your permission, I will proceed to the second motion very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that maximum residue limits (MRLs) are set for public health reasons;]] [[having noted that the food processing industry, with the approval of NVWA, diluted fipronil eggs with clean eggs in autumn 2017 in order to reach the MRLs set;]] [[considers that dilution of pollution does not fit into a robust food safety system;]] [[calls on the Government to stop allowing the mixing of pollution in food, including in raw materials or semi-products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-544]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I share the displeasure that Mr De Groot has just expressed. In this situation too, confidence comes on foot and leaves on horseback. In order to regain that confidence, the Sorgbrugger committee has done a good job to my liking. But it would just be good if next year the situation would be looked at again independently, expertly and authoritatively. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to have independent and expert monitoring and evaluation of the proper implementation and assurance of the opinions and recommendations of the Sorgblader Committee;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Sorgdrager Commission carry out an evaluation study on this in 2020 and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the end of that year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-545]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u244	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I shall now give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A motion and a question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas communication from NVWA and departments during the fipronil crisis has not been optimal;]] [[Whereas earlier, for example in the case of Q fever, it has been shown that it is undesirable for economic interests to compete with those of public health;]] [[considers that it is precisely when food safety is at stake that the importance of a clear, clear message is great;]] [[considers that in the case of food safety, public health interests should prevail over economic interests;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a food crisis roadmap or protocol in which the VWS Minister is always the first spokesman in a food crisis of national size,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-546]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u246	It is not entirely clear to me what the government's position is on the Dutch Control Authority for Eggs. In June we received a letter in which the government actually said: we are following Sorgblader. I understood that after that the reaction was: we're going to tell the Chamber what we're doing. Now I get the idea that Minister Bruins is pre-ordering a motion from the Chamber. So I would like to know what the cabinet's position is. To what extent is that different from the June letter? And when did that point of view change? Finally, I would like to endorse what Mr De Groot said. I would point out that the Sorgdrager report not only criticises the quality mechanisms that exist in the egg sector. This report also states that a number of mechanisms make it very difficult to improve quality and that this also applies to all kinds of other food sectors. I don't think you can say: we think it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u247	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u248	Mr. Chairman. I started by saying that many people have already forgotten the fipronil crisis, the fipronil incident, and the empty shelves in the supermarkets. But that certainly does not apply to poultry farmers who are really still suffering from the misery and consequences of this every day. This debate has not solved that. Nevertheless, it is good that we have had this debate with each other. I am pleased to note that both the sector and the NVWA and the two ministries have been working hard on the recommendations contained in the Sorgdrager report. Mr. Chairman. We will monitor in the progress report the important elements that I raised in the first period. I particularly welcome the commitment to communication, crisis communication and so on. I have also raised a second point: the recommendation to place the Dutch Control Authority on eggs with NVWA. My group is not in favour of this. That is why I co-signed the Geurts motion. I'd like to hear the verdict on that in a moment. I've also heard that open accounts aren't being sent for a while. That's an important signal. I look forward to a response to Mr Geurts' motion on this. Finally, the final point is the separation of tasks. I welcome the commitment to this. I'm sure we'll be able to talk about that when the report gets there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u249	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I understand that for the answer we can immediately transfer to the rulers. You don't? Then I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u250	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. As far as we are concerned, 539 is at the discretion of the Chamber. Is there a change in the position? That's right. We've adjusted and weighed at this point. On the one hand, I believe that the sector is committed to maintaining the NCAE. On the other hand, we need peace on the front. That is why we support this motion. In doing so, I gave an immediate answer to Mr Futselaar's question. The second motion on which I give an opinion is the motion in part No. 544. That motion was tabled by the D66 Group. It calls on the government to stop allowing the mixing of pollution into food products, even in raw materials or semi-products. I've rarely promised exactly what's in a motion. I find it annoying to say, but I think it is a really unnecessary motion, because I have already made that commitment. That's why I'm telling her off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u251	I see that Mr De Groot wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u252	It is not allowed, but the fact is that it happened in autumn 2017, just as it happened with the knowledge of the government that eggs were sold with fipronil. So I do not think it is unnecessary at all to send out this signal now that this is simply not the intention. I also expect the Minister to confess this actively, because it has been in your period, not so long ago, that it was simply allowed by your department to mix away. So I do not think the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u253	It was not allowed, it is not allowed and it will not be allowed. I argued that out-and-to-after. That is why I give a different appreciation than Mr De Groot of the motion he has tabled. I understand that, but I'm sticking to the appreciation I gave you: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u254	The motion in part No. 544 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u255	The motion in part No. 545 tabled by the PvdA Group. It calls on the government to have the Sorgdrager Committee carry out an evaluation study. I have argued that we can do this very well ourselves. That's the proof we're going to provide. First there will be a number of progress reports and then we will submit an evaluation to you. We're not going to ask the Sorgblader committee. We didn't call her, and we're not gonna. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Finally, for me, the motion on part No. 546. It calls on the government to come up with a roadmap or protocol for food crises where the VWS Minister is always the first spokesman in a food crisis of a national scale. Perhaps the petitioner meant "the Minister for Medical Care," who knows, but we are still "dissuaded" from the judgment, because as I argued in the first term, it will often be the ministry of VWS that is leading, but situation depends on whether it is LNV's colleague, or yours truly. What is important in communication is that it is seamless and unambiguous. VWS doesn't always have to take the lead. The motion in part No. 546 has therefore been dissuaded. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u256	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u257	Thank you. In the Geurts motion in part No. 540 the government is invited to consult with the poultry sector on the scale of costs and how to deal with them. I have just indicated that there is a legal procedure under way and that I am therefore a little reluctant to do so. I have indicated that I will not send invoices. I would like to suggest to Mr Geurts that we wait and see how the legal procedure goes and then see how we can deal with this motion. But I get what it says; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u258	I was a little afraid that this would be the answer, and I understand that in itself, but I assume that the waste tax is being looked at very seriously: what are the possibilities? That's what the motion says. I assume that the Minister will continue to look seriously at what I am asking for in this motion. That's why I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u259	At the request of Mr Geurts, I propose his motion (26991, No. 540). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u260	Then the motion to part No. 541, inviting the government to have all self-regulation systems on Ketenborging.nl by 2020. The criteria for Ketenborging.nl are heavy. I just argued that. It is therefore a question of ensuring that the quality systems meet these criteria, otherwise they will simply not be accepted. This also depends on the pace of submission, and that is also up to the sector. That is what we are helping to do, and that is what we are encouraging. But to say: by 2020, all systems of self-regulation must be on Ketenborging.nl... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The goal isn't that they're standing there, the goal is that the quality goes up. That's why I advise against this motion. I want them to be of sufficient quality before they get into that system. The motion in part No. 542 calls on the government to make every effort to equip the NVWA to the best possible extent, so that crises and incidents can be adequately addressed. Food safety is priority No. 1 of NVWA. We have just argued that this is reflected in the use of resources. 52% of the budget goes to food safety. There are crisis plans. We have also completely revised it in the light of Sorgblader. A CFSO will be appointed. Crisis communication is being improved. I have just indicated what the resources are for 2019 and what the next steps we are going to take. In that light, I would advise against this motion, because I believe that we are already taking all kinds of steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u261	Thank you. And finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u262	That's the motion in part No. 543, on the connection of the chain guarantee. I understand the request to actively encourage this and to inform the Chamber about it, so I would like to leave the ruling on this motion to the Chamber. There is another comment by Mr De Groot on the robust system. I have indicated that both the Food Safety Monitor and Sorgblader say that the food in the Netherlands is generally safe, but that improvements are needed. That's what I said. That's exactly what we're doing right now. We are working on this, and cohesion is also a point of attention. A kind of image was created of what I would have said, while I think I said something exactly in line with Sorgblader.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u263	Thank you. That concludes the debate. I thank both ministers and I thank the Members, the staff and the listeners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-14.u264	The votes on the motions tabled will be taken next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 9:45.
