ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Children's Budget Act to increase the income limit of the child-related budget for couples. I would like to welcome the two Secretary of State, the Members, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The economic crisis has required a great deal from people and families. We worked hard together to rebuild the economy, and successfully. But for some families with children it is and remains a challenge to keep all balls, including the financial balls, in the air. The VVD is therefore very pleased that, as we agreed in the coalition agreement, we are now in a position to give some fresh air to middle-income families who have had to tighten their belts during the tough years. In addition to the recent increase in family allowances and childcare allowances, many more families will be entitled to a higher child-related budget, as we will significantly increase the point where the child-related budget is being cut. In concrete terms, this means that families will receive around €975 extra per year. Many families are also entitled to a child-related budget once again or for the first time. This is an average of around €600 a year. That is of course good news, but that brings me to the point of implementation. The VVD Group is concerned about this and not without reason. After all, the policy review of the child schemes and the inexplicably high non-use of the child-related budget have shown that something has gone well in the past in the implementation of the child-related budget. As a result, parents who were entitled to the child-related budget did not get what they were entitled to. On the issue of implementation in particular, my group expressed all its concerns in the handling of the law in 2007, but it was assured by the then Minister for Youth and Family that it was expected that any problems in implementation would be limited. I think the current Secretary of State, with the knowledge of today, is looking at that differently, but I'd like to hear that from her. How is it that things have gone so wrong with the performance? I thought you said the legal text was clasp-and-ready. In this case, doesn't the Executive Service, the Tax Administration/Applications, place the law for control next to the built system? But above all: how do we prevent us from seeing such an unpleasant surprise again in the future? In the letter the Secretary of State writes that it is currently being examined how the recovery operation can be designed. The VVD considers it important for this recovery operation to take place carefully, but also to clarify whether or not parents are entitled to a refund. Can the Secretary of State indicate how much time it takes for this investigation? Mr. Chairman. Due to the problems encountered in implementation, there was also a financial gap in the present legislative proposal. The Secretary of State has now solved this structural problem by means of a letter of amendment. The VVD is pleased that a solution has been found. By this route, the objective of the law is maintained. More parents are entitled to a child-related budget. That's good news for all those families that keep all the balls in the air in the hectic of everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you. I see that this calls for an interruption to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u5	Is the VVD also pleased that this compensation for middle incomes and the error made in the execution are ultimately paid by single parents and minima?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u6	Of course, it's never fun if you have to fix an omission, but I'm glad that we've finally found a solution within the arrangement by which we distribute it proportionally to everyone. Of all the bad solutions, this was still the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u7	I could really not think of a worse solution. Single parents, minimums and families to a modal income, so those who can use the money the hardest are the ones who are now seeing a minus behind their income. Why? Not because they did it wrong and not because something changes in their situation, but because something else went wrong with the Tax Office. Why does a single mom have to pay for the IRS screwup?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u8	We have been looking for a solution. The Secretary of State found it this way. That is a solution that we can support, because the aim of the legislative proposal was to give, in particular, middle income at the moment a little extra, where in the past we have always looked in particular at the support of parents with a minimum income. We have now looked at the proportional distribution of pain. There is; I'm not running away from that. But this is a solution that we can support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u9	I would like to point out that I would like all the interruptions to be in two rather than in three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u10	The VVD and Mrs. Nijkerk... Nijker... Look...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u11	Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u12	It's a tough name.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u13	Nijkerken-de Haan. Excuse me. You've been there a little longer, Mr. President. I need to get in. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan is right to point out that we have had a crisis that has seriously affected people, and that it is now time to increase the group that can make use of the child-related budget. That's really good. We support that, too. But then there's a big mistake and it has to be fixed. It costs money. And that's solved with a cover that goes to low-income, low-income people and single parents. You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u14	I believe that the solution will be found by all groups of parents. So yes, it also ends up with people with a minimum income, but also the middle-income people are equally affected by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u15	The letter of amendment contains a nice table. It indicates that people with a minimum income fall by 0.4% in 2020, which is about €100 a year; that's big if you have a small income and that one to one and a half times modal 2.2% is in the plus. So I don't quite see the fair distribution. Is there room at the VVD to see if we can distribute this differently during this debate? Because I'm convinced that this doesn't need cover at all. This is just a setback for the cabinet. You shouldn't put it down at low incomes; it's just the cabinet that has to sort it out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u16	I don't see that space in this debate. I think the solution that lies there is a good one. In addition, we are always looking again in August at how the overall policy, all the policies we are discussing here with each other, is falling into different income groups. We always have, and we will this year. Then we'll look at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u17	I also see an interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u18	I have a very simple question. Doesn't the VVD think that if the government makes a mistake, the government should fix it too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u19	I think we're the government together. We've been looking for a solution, and we've found it within this bill. In this way, we will also allow them to land in proportion to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u20	Then I'll try to make it a little clearer. Does the VVD think that, if a mistake is made from the government, we should let people in the country get hurt, as is happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u21	I think I'm repeating myself. I think a solution has been chosen within the legislative proposal. I have just told Mr Gijs van Dijk that in August, as we do every year, we will see the impact of the overall policy we are meeting here. If it turns out there are huge differences, we're gonna see how we solve it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u22	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP Group. He has indicated that he wishes to speak for 15 minutes. I said I don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u23	We'll see how it goes, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. A little later than planned, we'll still be dealing with this law. The reason was that we received a note stating that a small problem had been discovered by the Secretary of State about the child-related budget. Turned out what? This is a debacle of about 0.5 billion. 400,000 parents were entitled to money and should have gotten it automatically, but they didn't get it, because you can guess it by now. ICT rattled at the IRS. Not for a while; no, for years. In fact, since the introduction of the child-related budget in 2008. In 2012 the system was modified and all data before that disappeared. Parents can therefore whistle to a part of the money they had been entitled to, as if life for many young parents is not expensive enough. I don't know where to start. The last discussion I had with the Secretary of State about the Tax Administration was about whether or not to finance childcare directly. The cabinet has invested EUR 20 million in the advance of a law to look at: can it not be easier and should we not finance it directly? Eventually, the cabinet withdrew this. Why? Not because of the good things that the legislative proposal could achieve, namely the reduction of problematic post-tax charges that would cause people to get into debt, but because a major change in the system would entail major risks and because it would therefore be better to leave the implementation of these charges with the Tax Administration and not to move to DUO. The first question from the SP is therefore a rather short one: does the cabinet still think this is true? Does the government still think that the Tax Administration is the appropriate body to start the childcare allowance now? Or should we move that to DUO after all? What does this mean for the improvement process that has been promised to us? Because how can a mistake in ICT remain invisible for ten years? If something goes wrong on my computer, I usually get it pretty quick. And what does this mean for other automated projects at the Tax Office? What guarantees do we have that we will not encounter any more of these astronomical setbacks in the near future? I am curious about the reaction of Secretary of State Quickly on this; thank you, moreover, for having taken the trouble to be present at this debate. It's appreciated. Again, the cabinet had the opportunity to relieve the tax authorities and shift the childcare allowance towards DUO. He didn't choose that. Is that gonna change now? Wouldn't it be wiser to relieve the tax authorities and thus relieve the parents? Later this evening, it will be even more extensive about the Tax Administration, but I can't help it, because this is in a longer tradition. This tradition was not caused by the employees of the Tax Administration, who run back and forth with buckets under a leaky roof, but already stems from the time of Secretary of State Wiebes because of the political choices of successive Cabinets-Rutte. The IRS simply can't do what it should do anymore. We saw the Secretary of State here a few weeks ago about the tax returns of companies going from one container to another. That's what it's about tonight, but there's got to be something off my chest. If you get too much extra, the whip goes over. Then an entire journey will be deployed and then there will not be any easy rest before you have to pay back the too much received surcharge. The tax authorities even had to be pricked by the judge for the way in which sometimes people have been hunted for people who have been overcharged. In the meantime, suspicious company declarations remain in place. Does the cabinet see this contradiction? Isn't that just a form of legal inequality? Because you are too busy chasing people who have gotten a little too much with the limited capacity you have because the Tax Administration has too limited capacity, companies with suspicious declarations come away with back and forth between trays. And parents who have ultimately had too little and should have received more child-related budget and not had it, only get it back up to five years. The rest of them can whistle. Of course you still give money to those parents. Those people were entitled to that money and that is what is happening now is only logical. They haven't gotten something for years that they should have. But I almost literally fell off my chair when I read how the cabinet intends to pay for this measure. Mr Van Dijk has just said something about it. The government's making a mistake and how are we going to pay for it? By not indexing the child-related budget. Parents have been given too little money and we're going to compensate for it, because that's how it's supposed to be, by giving parents less money. It doesn't get any better, because this classic cigar from its own box doesn't have the same consequences for every parent, despite what the VVD just said. I would say: take the table in the letter of amendment again, and you will see that the income differences are quite different. The consequences are extra acidic if you do not already have it so easy, for example for minima, single parents and families to a modal income. It will not surprise anyone here that we, as SP, would have liked to have made the choices in this bill different anyway. We still have some amendments to that effect, which I highly recommend. Despite the fact that people with less money wouldn't get better by this law, at least they wouldn't go down on it. But oops, error at the IRS to your disadvantage. Extravagance? It is precisely the lowest incomes that are now falling into the minus. Why? Because they're paying for solving the IRS blunders. Just let that touch on you for a moment. Companies may get away with all kinds of tax constructions because they are pushed back and forth between trays, but minimums pay the bill to clean up the mess at the Tax Office. That's crazy, isn't it? The gang that Secretary of State Wiebes left behind, you may know him from the energy note, which is paid at the end of the day by a single mother who is already struggling to make it to the end of the month. Who came up with that? Who thought this was an acceptable solution? What is right about the choice that has been made here? What can single parents or working poor people do about the tax authorities not having their own processes in order? I'd say cabinet, adjust that. If not, I hope the Chamber is prepared to do so. Why, for example, do you not take the cover for non-use over the last ten years from lowering the income limit and increasing the phasing-out rate, so that the group entitled to the child-related budget does not only increase at the top, but also benefit from it at the bottom? No one gets worse. And the group that is entitled to the child-related budget is still getting bigger. The original objective of the child-related budget was to compensate for children's costs, but by means of a principle of carrying capacity, i.e. income-dependent. The child-related budget was conceived because the advantage that you would have through all kinds of tax structures does not apply to people with the lowest incomes, because they often did not fall under certain regulations. That was the idea of the child-related budget: to solve a specific problem for single parents and sole earners at the minimum wage level. But the bill we are talking about today also aims to give the child-related budget to working middle-income parents, so that they feel that things are going better in their personal lives, according to the explanatory memorandum to the law. That in itself is a noble endeavour. In fact, it's much more necessary and topical than ever, I'd say. We all saw our energy bill in January. Practically nobody feels that things are going better and then it is nice to have some extra money. We could use some positive news. But what does this mean for the original target group of the child-related budget? The SP ordered the Nibud investigation. This shows that the largest deficits in couples with older children and/or more than two children are found. As income is lower, deficits are even increasing, up to several hundred euros per month. Let this group also take advantage of the gifts that are being distributed, I would say. Why doesn't the cabinet use at least part of the budget, out of the 500 million extra to the child-related budget, to help these groups out? Shouldn't that be the least of it? Let me give you some suggestions. Why do we not increase the amounts for, for example, the third child or the additional amount for older children? As SP, we advocate that everyone gets better, but with a small proposal within this law, we can make a big difference for the group that needs it most. If you look in your mailbox later, you will see an amendment to that effect, which is highly recommended. If we increase the income limit for couples by €1,500 less, we can use the 52 million we earn with it for the groups that need it most. Then there's another point. You may have got it on RTL this morning: together with the SGP, we are proposing a repair that should have been done much earlier, at a point where we have been working with the SGP for a long time. You know that the SP does not like the fact that we have burdened students with a debt system: unnecessary, oily, bad for the opportunities in education. That's not what we're talking about today. However, we are talking about the fact that no provision has been made for parents of young children studying at the time of the introduction of the system. Under the old scheme, you lost your child support, but it was compensated because your child received student funding. Now you're still losing your child support, but your kid gets to take out a loan. Child benefit didn't come back. We think that is crazy, and not just us, but also the SGP, and the officials in the Ministry itself, as they began to do so themselves in a policy review. They were inspired to come up with an amendment together with the SGP. If the same officials who see it as strange that this has happened also take on board the pre-opinion of the amendment, I am confident that we can take a good step for these parents today. Locking up. The SP wants this cabinet not to blunder its own stories on people who desperately need the money. For these people, the child-related budget was once created. These people have to turn every euro around, and they can't do anything about the permanent shooter in the government. It's not their fault that I.T.S. at the IRS screwed things up. They can't help it. Don't let them take the fall for that. That is why there is a third amendment. If I had it alone, the percentages would have been even more radical. The only thing this amendment does is to ensure that indexing continues as from 2020. We are doing this by doing something about the phasing-out rate. People are still making progress, but in this way we will at least ensure that the people who are entitled to the child-related budget are not going to pay for the screw-up in the government, and certainly not the people who need it most: the single parents, the minima and the people into a modal income. They shouldn't be the ones paying the bill for years of chaos with us. I hope that at least this is not too much to ask for in the Chamber and the Cabinet today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I give the floor to Mr Peters of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are probably books written about it, but sometimes I get the feeling that we have used such complex systems that man is not even fit for the systems anymore. Because almost everything is related to everything, we don't see the forest anymore because of the trees and it doesn't immediately notice when something doesn't go at all as we had hoped or thought. After this sigh, the next thing. For the CDA, income support for parents with children is of great importance. So we are very pleased with the proposal before us. More families will be entitled to support and this support will also be slightly higher. That sounds like very good news. That's good news for everyone. Whether you look at it through the glasses of equality of opportunity, through the glasses of family parties or simply as income support for low and middle incomes: this is good for everyone. The Council of State has no comments on this bill and is satisfied. The Tax Administration has a positive execution test. I'd almost say, "What else does a man want?" It gives cause for great satisfaction. Mr. Chairman. How sad is it, then, that even this good news is likely to be overshadowed by an execution error of the Tax Administration in the past. That was a big problem, a problem no one knew about, but for people now it's not really a problem. In fact, people get an unexpected windfall worth a few hundred million. My neighbor said to me this morning: so, René, if I understand correctly, will I be getting money back that I didn't count on anymore? I said yes, that's right. He said, "Give me more of those problems." Mr. Chairman. There are still a few questions about this. Is the Tax Administration now able to locate the right people and solve all practical problems, from divorces, for example, who gets the windfall? Do you want to move abroad? And don't people who get a nice bonus suddenly get into trouble with fees, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u26	I see that Mr Kwint has one more comment on your previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u27	I see it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u28	Well, there's some kind of continuous line in there, so I can break in at any time. I am very happy for Mr Peters' neighbor, but the money he gets back will soon be paid by single parents, by minima; they will go backwards. You say it's good news for everyone. The letter of amendment contains a crystal clear table stating: single parents -0,9, minimum -0,3 and minimum to modal -0,6. That's all between -0.3 and -0.9. They're the ones paying for the neighbor's present. How does the CDA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u29	Mr Kwint did not understand that correctly. We have an occasional hole of 500 million and there isn't even cover for that yet; it's going to come and we all have to talk about it, which we're probably going to do here. And that's what this was about. What you're saying is that we also had a structural deficit of about 50 million. Unfortunately, in view of the budgetary rules, you will have to resolve that within the legislative proposal. We can like that or not like it, but these are the rules of the game we have drawn up. I've been thinking about it, but of all the ugly solutions I can think of, this might be the least ugly one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u30	That is what the VVD said; it will have been a harmonious consultation. Is it within a legislative proposal that has been primarily ever conceived to give income support to children's minimums, the best-suited solution that minimums, single parents get to the bottom of the gap? If this is the best solution the coalition could come up with, I would say: invite me next time too, because I do have some better ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u31	You were also invited to the coalition negotiations in the beginning and there was no need for it. There is an overall picture where we look at how we deal with the incomes in this country. I have not been in the negotiations on the coalition agreement until the end of the day, but this is also in the whole package. So if you're going to slide to one button, you're going to slide to the other. You know all these models. So that's about how it's gonna be. There is now a proposal that is incredibly good for almost everyone. What has not been paid wrongly in the past.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's very nice for people, too. Where that money has to come from, we don't know yet, but I'm sure we'll talk about it here. But for this structural point, the budgetary rules say: we have to do something within the legislative proposal. Then you can slide with all kinds of buttons, but then this of all the ugly ones is the least ugly one. There's nothing else I can do. If you'll join us at the table after the next election, we'll see what we can do. However, I have nothing else to make of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u32	I would like to help Mr Peters, because I think that the coalition is being forced too much by Finance, which says: these are the budgetary rules. However, there is no policy change, this is simply a mistake. There's just been a setback. What the coalition is doing now is going after finance and saying: we have to cover this in our own budget. No, this is a setback. Let's find another cover. Is Mr Peters prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u33	No. If Mr Van Dijk is in charge, then he is the boss of finance, but we have the budgetary rules and this is one of them. There's nothing else I can do. I can't bend those rules, at least I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u34	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u35	This is a setback, this is not a new policy. If we assume from the CDA line that we need to find cover, is there room at the CDA to do it in a different way? Because now single parents and people with the lowest incomes are being hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u36	We have expanded within the coalition and looked for a long time at how we can do this and I can only come to the conclusion that this is what it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u38	I think it is wise not to go back to 2013 because otherwise it would not be technically feasible at all. Mr. Chairman. Then that cover. We just talked about it. The occasional problem of 50 million due to less non-use of the scheme is solved by one-off non-indexation. I think that of all ugly solutions, probably the least ugly, and believe me: we have really looked at other solutions within the coalition. I still need some comfort around the purchasing power effects of this measure and how it works. I'm considering a motion on this point. No solution has yet been found to cover the occasional problem. So I am not getting any further ahead of that here either. Mr. Chairman. You don't just make a coalition deal. The CDA welcomes this part and certainly the law before us. It is simply a good thing that middle-income parents are also financially catered for. I have three more questions. First of all, this child-related budget gets people automatically. Apparently, the IRS knows that because people get other fees too. I understand that some middle-incomes are now entitled to the child-related budget, but that they may not receive any further supplements. In that case, they have a right but no automatic access. My question is then: did I understand correctly? And what is the Secretary of State going to do to bring this scheme to the attention of this particular group and to ensure that we do not have another problem with the non-use of this scheme in a few years' time? The next question concerns parents who work in the Netherlands but whose children reside abroad. I do not think it is the intention of the Dutch taxpayer to sponsor children in Bulgaria, Romania or to get him into Poland. The coalition agreement talks about the principle of housing. How does the Secretary of State assess the chances of success? How does the Secretary of State deal with this matter in the first place? The proposed regime does not alter the risk of abuse. I mention, for example, the risk that migrant workers will not unsubscribe to the municipality on departure from the Netherlands. Is this sufficiently taken into account? 'Cause I can imagine the headlines! Can the Secretary of State indicate how this is being assessed and how it will be maintained? Finally, Mr President. The CDA welcomes this law. People with children get a little support in the back. That's nice, and it's necessary. Moreover, it is a law with no problem whatsoever according to the Council of State. And no implementation problems are expected for the Tax Administration either. That's just good news, and really for everyone. As far as the past is concerned, the CDA is confident that this will be resolved properly. People get an unexpected windfall and for them it is, as the neighbor said this morning: give me more of those problems! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u39	I have a question for Mr Peters. Mr Kwint has just announced that the SGP and the SP have tabled an amendment together. I am actually very curious to know what Mr Peters thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u40	In Mr Kwint's words, the CDA was also unhappy with the abolition of the stock exchange. You'll understand. We also see the problem of this group. I therefore agree with the observation that there is a problem, that you rightly emphasise and that it will also have to be resolved. Just, I don't want to take it out of coverage from this Child-Bound Budget Act. I'm just as happy about that. That's what I said. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're gonna have to talk about how we're gonna do it at a later stage. Because I agree with your point, I agree with your analysis, but I do not agree with your proposal for cover. It's not a very big financial problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u41	I welcome the fact that Mr Peters also says 'this is a problem, but it has to be solved'. I am not happy that coverage is not supported, but I understand that Mr Peters says: 'anyway, this has to be resolved'. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u42	That's what we're gonna hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u43	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u44	Thank you. Then I see that there is another interruption by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u45	I am familiar with the CDA's position on the loan system. I think we share that. But I'm curious... That system has been in place for a few years. So far it has not been possible to find a solution. At what time can we then see how the CDA proposals, including coverage, will be dealt with? Because, frankly, I think a law dealing with child-related budget and child benefit is quite a natural moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u46	He's a wonderful figure, isn't he? Mr. Kwint's coming up with an amendment. I say, "I share the background, but the cover just doesn't." And then you say, "When do I see your proposal? Then I can shoot it." Or agree, it doesn't matter. Let's just do it this way and put it all on the table. We will immediately ask the Secretary of State: "This is a problem; do you see cover or imagine how we can do this?" I want to see it, too. I want to think about it, I don't care when, but I don't have anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u48	Our group actually cares when, because these parents are now in trouble and I think we share that analysis. I would be happy to see if there is any other cover, but this seems to me to be the time, now that we are talking about this legislative amendment, to take a step in this matter, since it is precisely the child benefit issue that is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u49	I don't think so. I do not want to cover it from this child-related budget, and I also think that we have a coalition agreement and a coalition with which I should also discuss this. This is not something I can speak of between the soup and the potatoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u50	Thank you. That gives me the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u51	Mr. Chairman. For years, the economy has been going well. There is a budget surplus of many billions. Business profits have increased enormously, but the ordinary citizen does not notice this in his wallet. What is more, wrong political choices mean that purchasing power is falling. Mr. Chairman. That is why this coalition must use all kinds of tax levies and surcharges to adjust its own policies. How crazy do you want it? And so the jungle of surcharges, regulations and levies continues to grow. Today, we're making the system a little more complicated. Mr. Chairman. The ordinary citizen doesn't understand it anymore. There are increasingly problems with reimbursement of surcharges due to errors in the calculation. Also the people on the Tax Phone can often not explain it anymore. And now it turns out that the tax administration's ICT systems themselves are not up to it. We are going to talk about other problems at the Tax Office tonight, but there seems to me to be no denying that something is wrong. And the entire opposition supported the Van Dijck motion last year to make the service a major project. That was in May 2018. The least you can do is find that it hasn't really gotten better since then, even worse. The inheritance and gift tax problems, the change on diesel cars, the child-related budget now, the non-checking of VPB returns, the sales tax, the Customs, go on. And this evening, I suggest, with this debate in mind too, let us discuss that proposal again. Mr. Chairman. The child-related budget is an income-related allowance for children's costs, intended to support low- and middle-income families. Because of the choice of this cabinet for Africa and multinationals, the ordinary Dutchman has a purchasing power problem. Those families had to pay for the EU and banking crisis. They're having a really hard time. They deserve more than just today's proposal, but they really need that money. The PVV will therefore support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u52	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Raemakers of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u53	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that low- and middle-income families receive income-dependent allowances for children's costs. The present legislative proposal considerably increases the point at which the income-dependent reduction of the child-related budget for couples begins. For example, there are parents who receive a higher child-related budget and parents who are eligible for a child-related budget for the first time. And I am glad that we are here today to implement this measure from the coalition agreement. This allows us to spare people with low and middle incomes with children under the age of 18. Good news for people in the so-called rush hour of life. Then everything is expensive enough: school fees, sports clubs, clothes, mortgage and so on. It is a good thing that we are giving EUR 500 million extra to the child-related budget, for all these parents but above all for all those children. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, last week we were also uncomfortablely surprised with annoying news about parents who have missed their child-related budget for years. I am glad that the Secretary of State took this problem right away and that all these parents will also be compensated for those years. But of course D66 would have liked to have seen that in 2020 it could simply be indexed. That is why I have a number of questions. This annoying omission didn't come to light until late. Hundreds of thousands of parents didn't get what they were entitled to for years. How has this situation lasted for more than ten years? I ask the SZW Secretary of State: how long has she known about this omission? How long was this known exactly? And what checks-and-balances does the Secretary of State of SZW, but perhaps also the Secretary of State of Finance, build to prevent such omissions in the future? For it was just in the law; the text of the law was very clear and yet it went wrong. How are we all going to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has the importance of the child and the importance of equal opportunities for all from the start. This cabinet therefore provides higher childcare allowance, higher child benefit, more money for children in poverty. With this bill, it also significantly increases the amount of child-related budget. All in all, we give our children more opportunities for a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I see an interruption and see who goes to the microphone first. That's Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u55	I can run the fastest, Mr. Chairman. No, I'm kidding. I have a question for Mr Raemakers. I have just asked the same question to Mr Peters of the CDA. What does Mr Raemakers think of this group of 22,500 parents with children aged 16 or 17 years in higher education, who are extremely disappointed and who are inadequate? Do you also think it should be resolved, so what do you think of the amendment tabled by the SP and the SGP together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u56	Thank you for this question. Of course, I have just seen the discussion. I was just thinking: of course we don't have the student funding anymore as we used to. The same goes for those 16 and 17-year-olds. But, of course, we still have the supplementary scholarship for children who have parents with a slightly lower income. In fact, that supplementary grant has also been increased. I don't know if that also offers a solution for this group; that's what I was thinking about right away. So the study funding has been abolished, but there is an additional grant; it has gotten higher. And for the rest, of course, we have agreements in the coalition agreement, and D66 wants to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u57	I believe that the solution offered by Mr Raemakers is not the solution. In other words, this doesn't benefit this group of parents. Does he think this problem should be solved? That seems to me to be a very specific question. Do you think this problem should be solved? I would like a concrete answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u58	I find that difficult to say, because we're giving a lot of money to the child-related budget and, of course, you're going to have to cut off someone you're going to give that money to. That is what has been agreed by the government agreement. There's also D66's signature underneath. The SGP and the SP now say that they want a slightly different distribution. Of course, I want to look seriously at every amendment and motion, but I am bound by the agreements of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u59	Mr. Stoffer, I just indicated that I want all the interruptions to go in two and not in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u60	When I hear this answer, I only conclude that D66 does not want to solve this injustice. That's not a question, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u61	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u62	And quite cleverly done, Mr. Chairman, to make a third attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u63	I'd say it's not an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u64	No, no, definitely not. D66 is right to be happy, too. There is extra money for people who desperately need it in the rush hour of life. However, the mistake with the government must now be solved by low-income people who can also be seen in the table of single parents. Is there room at D66 to look at other forms of cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u65	I have also been told in the debate that a number of speakers say that there is a mistake with the government and the people are now taking the blame for it. I would like to point out that the EUR 50 million, which we must indeed look for, does not go into a black hole with the government and that the money is gone. No, the 50 million euros will actually be returned to parents with children with retroactive effect. They still get the money they're entitled to and that they didn't get. So we are not saying: there is a problem with the government; now we have found 50 million and nobody is going to take advantage of it. Mr Peters also pointed out that people are really going to get money from 2014 or 2018. So we can help people with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u66	I think this is a very sympathetic attempt by Mr Raemakers. He says it's gonna benefit people, too. Yeah, that's right, because money is being transferred from one group to another. It is precisely the group that we do not want to meet, which is already having a hard time, that we should spare. I am looking for room for that now, because that is now done by the choice made by the coalition and the cabinet. Is D66 willing to look at other variants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u67	I have missed the PvdA amendment, but it seems that you are about to submit it. I am always willing to look into this, but as I said before, I am committed to sticking to the agreements of the government agreement. I also think that we have once agreed on a law here that has not been properly implemented in practice. The parents who therefore missed money to which they were entitled... Yeah, well, the law's just the law. I will stick to those two principles. In addition, I am prepared to take any proposal from the Labour Party seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u68	Now there is already a proposal from my hand, which we are actually saying: when the phasing-out starts, we are pulling something back. Then all these groups are still making progress, but then you divide it something else. Then you will at least make sure that the single mothers and the minima who already have trouble reaching the end of the month do not turn in. They don't have to get bins of money, but they don't have to turn in. Shouldn't that be the least we could do today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u69	Mr Kwint said in his term: if I was in charge alone, then the percentages were even higher. Mr Kwint has tabled three amendments. I take the amendment in part No. 9 and that in part No. 11 more. In the amendment to item No. 9 is replaced by 6,75% by 7,05%. In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. The same percentage shall be replaced by 7,25% for another purpose. In short, Mr. Kwint is not only in charge, but he is proposing to spend the money double. It can't be. I would therefore also like to ask Mr Kwint what he really proposes: is he going for the amendment in part No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. 9 or for the amendment to item No. Or does he want to cut the money in half or something? So I don't know where the SP is in this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u70	It is not customary to do 'the other way round' in the event of an interruption, but I am now giving the floor to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u71	Besides, it's just an incredible mist curtain not to have to say anything about: are we going to take money away from single mothers or not? I think that was the question. Of course, I'd like to explain. I have indeed made several proposals, and then it works that if you separate them into separate proposals, you always count from the percentage that is available at the time. That's right. At the moment when they are both hired, I think the Chamber has made a very sensible decision, and b we will make a little bit more of that. I don't think it's that complicated. We want to do a few things. We want to do something for the children of 16 and 17 who are no longer receiving study funding, and we want to do something to reverse this indexation. You can read all this in the explanatory statement and I do not think there is much confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u72	But I think you're standing there asking a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u73	Exactly! What are we gonna do with those single parents turning in later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u74	Indeed, it is true that there will be no indexing in 2020, and that is particularly annoying. As I mentioned in my contribution, we would have preferred to have been indexed, but then we would have to find some financial space somewhere. Apart from that, I would also like to ask the Secretary of State, in this way, whether she has an eye for those people at the bottom. How is she going to ensure that the effects don't go down too hard there? Mrs Nijkerken pointed out earlier this evening that we are going to see the new income figures in August and September. For my group, it would certainly be very important for us to have a real eye for those people at the bottom. In that sense, I fully agree with Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u75	We have heard questions from the opposition parties of the coalition parties in various debates: we are sticking to the coalition agreement. That is often a very nice way of not having to respond to questions in substance. We are now, of course, talking about a legislative amendment, but certainly also about a mistake made by the government that was not provided for in the government agreement. A number of questions have already been asked about this, but I would also like to ask Mr Raemakers how he sees it. How's the coalition gonna react? I would actually like a substantive answer from Mr Raemakers to the questions that have already been asked here by several people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u76	And what question exactly do you want answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u77	How we're gonna fix this. How are we gonna make sure no people who need that money get hurt? The mistake we are talking about is not in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u78	That mistake, which I am talking about now, the 50 million, is indeed not in the coalition agreement. But I would like to point out once again to Mrs Westerveld that this money really does not disappear. Parents who were entitled to money but didn't get it will get that money now. So if that's the question, D66 says we're gonna solve that problem. We are going to make sure that parents who were entitled to a sum but did not get it all get their money. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u79	I'm afraid you're no longer a... One more time, because a question was asked to you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u80	It's nice that parents get money, but it's paid for by other parents. That's the point! We're shoving money around, and it's not right. I would like to ask Mr Raemakers if he thinks that if the government makes a mistake, that error should be resolved by the government and not by another group of parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u81	Now it's going to be a bit of a semantic discussion, because, of course, the government is all of us. It is not the case that we still have public money lying somewhere that has not been raised by people. So any solution by pushing money like politics is indeed at the expense of someone else. But it is not the case that then only the government has less income and no one else in the country suffers from it. The government is all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u82	Thank you. That's what brought you to the end. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u83	Mr. Chairman. In four years we repair what has become crooked in the eight years before, and that is not a sinecure. And yet the cabinet is doing so with the bill we are discussing today. Imagine that in the years 2010-2017 you ran a single-earner family with a moderate income, then you lost more than 3% purchasing power in those eight years. And that was not the result of a natural disaster, but of conscious policy. On the one hand, policies to increase the purchasing power of the minima and the purchasing power of middle incomes and, on the other hand, policies to maximise labour market participation through tax reductions. I call you a few other categories of households to show the consequences of this. Single parents, even with a moderate income, did not fall by 3% like the single earners, but by more than 7%. Single parents with a minimum wage have even improved over 16%, resulting in the bizarre situation that single parents with a minimum wage under the line have more income than single-mode households. In other words, purely fiscally, a single earner with children would be better separated, with both parents taking care of at least one child. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this is not a recommendation from the Christian Union Group to divorce and it is not a free tax tip, but it does indicate how generous income support at the bottom of the income building can be in relation to households that have to live off one mode of income. If you're just letting all this data work on you, then I can't help but be very happy with this bill. It offers a much needed correction to the first eight years of this decade with a smart solution. By shifting the phasing-out point for couples, those households with children and an income between one and a half times average are finally getting financial support. Finally! Do you mind if I do it sometime? Households in this income range have to make their own financial effort in this country. No right to rent allowance if you live in a rental house, no right to health care allowance, no benefit from the mortgage interest allowance. That is why I am pleased that, between one and a half times, families with children and two parents can also look forward to a positive income effect. I think it is so nice to see that after years of rightly paying attention to the purchasing power of minimums, Jan Modaal is now also committed to plowing families with normal incomes. It is good to see that a single earner on a modal basis with two children is getting as much improvement on this bill as he has lost in the last eight years. This bill reduces the marginal pressure once again for families with children between minimum wage and modal. So of every euro you earn more, you're left with more. This bill offers especially these families more air, some more financial breathing space. In short, not a Christian Union paradise law, but a fine compromise of the coalition in which my group participates. Of course, the proposal could have been even better, for example by shifting the phasing-out point to the point where it affects the phasing-out path for the single parent. However, this proposal would certainly have cost twice as much. How much extra resources would it actually have required, is my question to one of the secretaries of state. Mr. Chairman. This bill is part of this cabinet's extra impetus for child regulation. Not only does more money go to the child-related budget, but also to family allowances and childcare payments go to additional resources. A total of nearly 1 billion were added to families with children by the coalition agreement. Of course, I admit it. I am also sick of the appalling setback that has emerged over the past week, which is, by the way, completely separate from this bill and from the agreements in the coalition agreement. But, yeah, he's here, and he needs to be solved. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am not happy with the solution chosen either, but my group accepts it. The one-time failure to index the child-related budget is an ugly but effective solution. The fact that the surplus of 10 million is being used to raise the phasing-out point a little more is a good thing for my group to say to the families involved. Mr. Chairman. This episode raises the question of why the regime differs with the various surcharges. There could also have been a legislative amendment that would have allowed the child-related budget to be matched with the other supplements. From a citizen's point of view, that is what I stand for here, it is precisely to suggest that the other allowances should also be as they should have been for the child's budget. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Mr President, another question about the child-related budget and people who live in the Netherlands and work just across the border, for example Germany. They are not entitled to the child-related budget because of the European coordination rules, which provide that the working country is competent for social security. In this context, what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motions tabled by my colleagues Van der Graaf and Van der Molen? I ask this in this debate because, among other things, a case with the child-related budget gave rise to these motions. After all, you will only live as a single parent in a shrinking region on the border and find work just across the border. Then you are unintentionally screwed, because in that case the German child schemes are just a little less generous. Mr. Chairman. Despite the hassle with the setback, this bill remains a beautiful building block in the construction of the coalition agreement and an important support for many families. Of course, when it comes to fair taxation and income support, we still have a lot to say about it, but pushing the phasing-out point in the child-related budget for couples undoubtedly adds equity to the outcomes of income policy. When I think of all the families who, despite all their savours of recent years, barely had a minimum income left under the line, I can only be grateful for this fine compromise. Mr. Chairman. I call on both Secretary of State to proceed swiftly with the implementation of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Bruins, you have an interruption from Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u85	Who got a little confused in the end. You said in the end 'when I think of all those families who have sapped at the minimum', but those are the people who are going to turn in because of your amendment. You say that they have received 7% or 8% in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u86	16%, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u87	€1,600 gross per month! Mr. Bruins pretends that people have to go down the street at the very minimum of existence in a polonaise. How did that choice come about? It is an amount of €1,600 gross per month. Then you're not gonna say, if we're facing a setback, are we gonna get a percent off that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u88	Mr. Kwint shouldn't try to play mathematical games with me. One percent up is the same as one percent down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u89	But now it's up to you to answer, because after that, he only has one chance to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u90	All I'm saying is that he's playing a mathematical game with me. He shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u91	Okay. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u92	If he doesn't realize it, it's worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u93	I don't quite understand what game you're playing. My question is very simple: why is a target group that earns €1,600 gross per month for the Christian Union a sensible cover post for a hitch at the Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u94	I just outlined the context of this bill. I said: do not forget that the roles in the past year were completely reversed. Single parents at the minimum have seen more than 16% income growth in the period 2010 to 2017, while only earners with a moderate income declined by more than 3%. Against this background, the solution that is now being chosen can be defended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u95	Mr Bruins spoke of the Christian Union paradise. I assume that, together, we will agree that this is also the SGP paradise. We didn't have these problems then, because there weren't any children yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u96	I think this is right. This is laughing. But, of course, in this period of time, we have these problems. Fortunately, we also have the child-related budget. I agree with Mr Bruins that everything that is now before us looks very beautiful. But you have also heard that both the SP and the SGP have jointly found that there is some injustice, namely for parents with children aged 16 to 17 who enter higher education. They will no longer be entitled to family allowances and, where appropriate, to the child-related budget. I know the Christian Union as a party that always likes to eliminate injustice, especially when there are options. So my question is actually what the Christian Union thinks of the amendment tabled by the SP and the SGP together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u97	I share Mr Stoffer's feeling of injustice. Parents of children aged 16 or 17 who are going to study are no longer entitled to child benefit. Since the loan system was introduced, these children have not received a basic grant. That's unfair. It annoys me that that still hasn't been solved. I would like to help solve that, but not with the legal treatment of the child-related budget, because I do not think we should get that out of child-related schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u98	I am, of course, glad that, as with the CDA, I also note here that at least we need to work on the problem. But the financial solution we are proposing is apparently not there. I wonder whether Mr Bruins would also like to put this question to the cabinet as well if there are other options to deal with this injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u99	We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u100	I'd be happy to pass on the question. Then we need to find 32 million. As far as I am concerned, that amount must be sought outside child regulations, because as a Christian Union I say: stay away from families in this country. I know that's what the SGP stands for. So we have to find 32 million. I would say: let us do this at another time, at other times in the budgetary cycle and in other budgets. But I, like Mr Stoffer, am eager to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u101	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk from the PvdA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u102	Mr. Chairman. When I saw this bill, I almost felt like "I've got to take swings for the cabinet and for the coalition," because this is just a really good proposal. That may also be said, because we as PvdA are always looking critically at all the plans of this cabinet, which the coalition knows too, but this is very good. It is very good that, in times when things are getting better, we support families financially. This certainly applies to families with young children, because it is just a very difficult time. Several MPs know that, too. I can see Mr Wiersma nodding. It's a tough time, when you have to combine everything and life is just expensive. The care is expensive. The energy is expensive. Your house is expensive, whether you have a mortgage or rent a house. You have to combine everything with each other. Then it's really nice that you're also getting a financial sting. It is therefore right that the coalition should choose to make the group bigger, because we are talking, for example, about the teacher, who can and should use this as well. Until then, it was actually good news. The garlands were almost hung. Until the error was noted by the government and the Tax Administration. That is, of course, very bad, and it simply needs to be resolved. It has already been apparent from the interruptions: we are absolutely opposed to putting it down to low incomes and single parents. That makes this debate difficult. There is a bill here, of which the Labour Party also says 'we support it very well', but at the same time a mistake has been made to the group that we should stand for and which needs the support of all of us. So I call on the Cabinet to find another cover. My point is also that it is a setback and not a policy change at all. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State for Finance that it is simply a setback and that it is really strange that there should be coverage now because there would be a policy change. I do not think there is any change in policy. I'm gonna go check on the allowance anyway. This is about that mistake: a large group of people have been unable to make use of the child-related budget for ten years. Why was it chosen to only look back five years? That error was actually already there when it was introduced in 2008. Why don't all parents get the opportunity to get back the money they deserved? Is it perhaps possible to create some kind of reporting system, as was previously done with the allowance for the daily wage decision WW? I understand that it is just more difficult for the group between 2008 and 2013, because the data are less in order, but is the cabinet perhaps willing to offer that people who might have been entitled to the child-related budget between 2008 and 2013 can report this to the Tax Office themselves, so that they can get what they were entitled to? And does the cabinet want to put that on the website and actively communicate it? So a large group is compensated, and then there are often new problems around the corner. Because what are the consequences for parents if they get the compensation back? What amounts can the compensation consist of? Will they receive this in instalments? What annual income does this compensation amount to? Is this going to happen in one year and is it going to be done that way in tax terms? Does it have any effect on other charges, in particular the rent surcharge? It could be that you will get into trouble again with other supplements in one go. In short, the question to the cabinet is: how do we ensure that there are no other adverse effects for parents who are compensated for the child-related budget they were entitled to? That is also the question to the Secretary of State: is this likely to create new debt problems? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the solution chosen by the cabinet and the coalition to cover the 50 million in the future. They choose not to index by 2020. I told you, parents with the lowest incomes are going down, with about €100 a year for the lowest incomes. Single parents, who are often not spacious and have a lot of problems, are also getting worse. As far as we're concerned, there's no need for cover. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State about that, too. Isn't this just a setback? This is not how we agreed on our budgetary rules. Why are parents with the lowest incomes the victims of government errors? Why is the remaining EUR 10 million saved by non-indexing in 2020 also being used for middle incomes and not for lower incomes? In short, the cabinet has money left over. Last year, there was even 3 billion in public debt. It also turns out that it is difficult to spend all the surpluses that the cabinet has. Is the cabinet prepared to take away the adverse effects on low incomes and single parents with a good law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u104	Mr. Chairman. Today's legislative change is not an exciting point for GroenLinks. In our own election programme, we have further plans for the child-related budget. As regards GroenLinks, family allowances and the child-related budget are merged into a single scheme, which is dependent on someone's income. It may not contain the garlands of the PvdA, but we can very well agree with this step forward. Today's real political debate is, of course, about the mistake made by the Tax Administration in allocating the child-related budget. In the news, this was set out nicely: as a windfall for parents. We also heard the CDA and D66 about that. That's a nice frame, but of course it's not a fluke. This is about money that people need to make ends meet, but they didn't get it for ten years. This could have caused problems. My colleagues and I regularly discuss the role of the government in causing debt in various debates. This is another typical example of this. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State: do we have a picture of how many of the 300,000 to 400,000 people who have been injured in the financial problems because they have not received a child-related budget in recent years? In the letter we read that after 2015 it amounts to an average of €1,000 per year. Are there also families that have missed much larger amounts? What's the split? Are there really big differences? Mr. Chairman. It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that they have come to the Chamber with this and that they have informed us well about the problems. My group continues to wonder how we could have taken that high percentage of non-use for so long. I would like to comment on that later. Then the sequel. It is a good thing that this error is corrected and that parents will still receive a child-related budget. GroenLinks is of course very curious where the cabinet will get that 445 million from. Can we get more information on this later? Mr. Chairman. My group does not think it is possible for the post-payment to count for the assets. Because this could mean that someone with a social security allowance who is now receiving a post-payment would be cut short. That while this is really a mistake, we said it before, which was made by the government itself. So these people will be punished twice. Is it possible to make an exception for these groups, which can get into trouble? Mr. Chairman. Where my group has even more difficulty is how to deal with the decline in non-use in the future. That's just what all the various interrupting debates were about. Simply put: since this error is now being corrected, it is expected that more people will make use of the child-related budget. That's only logical. That's gonna cost more money, too. That makes sense. But what is very illogical is that it has to be paid by the recipients themselves; that due to an error of the Tax Administration the child-related budget is not now indexed. I think that's weird, and I don't think that's fair. The child-related budget is indexed every year for a reason. Indexing means that the amount is adjusted to the price increases. This is done because in practice it will remain worth the same. By not indexing, this group of parents actually declines. I cannot imagine that there is not a pot of 50 million on that huge Social Affairs budget from which we can cover it. I think it's ridiculous that parents are going to suffer for this now. I'm asking the Secretary of State to find another cover for this. A number of amendments have been tabled by the SP and we will certainly look into them. At first, these seem to us to be good suggestions. As we have said, mistakes made by the government must also be resolved by the government as far as GroenLinks is concerned. We are very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u105	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u106	Mr. Chairman. Let's say your daughter's 16 or 17 years old. Fortunately, I can't imagine it yet; the oldest will only be 12 next week, but let's say that this is the case. She just got her diploma, but she still has no idea what follow-up she's gonna do. Will it be an MBO programme, an HBO programme or a switch to the VWO? You would like this to be a substantive choice, that you make that choice for substantive reasons and that the motivation makes the difference, but that you do not have to make a certain choice for financial reasons. Yet that is exactly what can happen. The fact is: if you opt for the HBO programme, your parents lose child benefit, possibly child-related budget and single parents lose the single parent, and only because your daughter is supposedly entitled to study funding. The fact that this is in most cases a loan is not taken into account. That account for the parents can be in the thousands of euros. With child benefit we are talking about €1,200, with the child-related budget up to €1,100 and with the single parent head up to €3,000. That is the maximum, on average we are talking about about about €1,400. With the introduction of the loan system, the right to family allowances and child-related budget was exchanged for the right to a loan, and that for children who are not even adults. Even if there is a right to a supplementary low-income exchange, this does not provide sufficient relief. 22,500 parents face this every year and in most cases unexpectedly. Most parents simply think: my child is not yet mature and so I am entitled to child care. In the past period, a father of twins e-mailed us in Harderwijk. One son started at HBO and the other follows 6 vwo. In that case, it cannot be explained that one child benefit is stopped and passed on to the other. Surely that should be impossible in a country with equal rights? Whether a child is an early learner, has completed the Havo or skipped a class, the result is a substantial financial noose. The SGP therefore asks the State Secretary to no longer distinguish by further education, but to choose the clear line of the adult age of 18 years. So far our proposal has always been rejected because of the financial consequences, but now that nearly 500 million extra is being allocated to the child-related budget, the SGP would very much like to see this problem repaired. That is why we have tabled an amendment together with the SP. In our opinion, the agreements in the coalition agreement remain valid, as the phasing-out point for couples remains increased by €16,750. The only thing we're adjusting is that the phasing-out goes a little faster: from 6.75% to 7.05%. We therefore hope for the support of the entire Chamber. We have just noticed in interrupting debates that the problem is being recognised and that many people are looking for a solution, but that there is a different direction of solution than we are proposing. Well, we're open to that. So we would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at our amendment, the SP amendment and the SGP amendment, but also how she looks at the direction of solutions. And if they are different, then of course Mr Kwint and I would like to be open to that. Mr President, I see that Mr Bruins is trying to interrupt. Do you want me to stop for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u107	Well, I was just about to give him the floor! But you can also help with the chair. I give the floor to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u108	Mr Stoffer and I had a little debate just now. I also know the problem that he quite rightly addresses, namely children aged 16, 17 years in that situation. He proposes to increase the phasing-out rate for the child-related budget for couples. But this increases the marginal pressure for couples in that pay range than for single people. Did he also pass on how much marginal pressure would increase as a percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u109	No, we didn't. If you look at the income range, you're talking about an income range of about €66,000 to €76,000. So it's really very limited in that respect. I didn't have that pass-through, but based on the amounts I'm referring to, you can assume a very limited percentage in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u110	That seems to be enough for Mr Bruins. I shall now give the floor to Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u111	Of course, we know the SGP as a party that stands up for the family. That is quite clear. But we also know the SGP as a party of financial discipline: you can only spend a euro once, not twice. Now Mr Stoffer and Mr Kwint have tabled an amendment to spend money on something. That is the proposal that the SGP is making here. But with another amendment, Mr Kwint proposes to spend the same money once more. Says the SGP: that's fine, because you can spend that money twice? Or does the SGP say tonight: we are only making one proposal, namely to spend it once?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u112	There is only one amendment from the SGP and the SP together. And you do know the SGP: we don't spend money twice, because then you just go bankrupt and you shouldn't. Okay, then I'll move on to the actual bill. The proposal before us is good news for families and middle income. Let us also be very clear and clear about this: it is a beautiful and good legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. The beginning of the crisis is now more than ten years ago. But if you ask people in the Netherlands when things got better in the Netherlands, then there is still a very large group, especially among those middle incomes, who have no answer. I think this is a first step: people, also the middle incomes, the basis of our Netherlands, get the feeling that they are doing a bit better again. In that respect, it's very nice. So it's very good that it reaches those middle incomes now. In terms of content, let's be honest, too. The bill is not very exciting. Simplicity has been chosen, and that's nice. The phasing-out point is being increased, and everything else is basically the same. The SGP will therefore support the proposal, but we have one point to improve in addition to the aforementioned point. This is also about children who are under 18 years old and who have extra earnings. And I'm always okay with kids starting out young with a job and working, because then they notice that if you work, you also have something extra to spend. I always think that's good for the future. But if you make too much extra money as a child, parents lose child support and the child-related budget. If a child has handled it very handy and has a company with which he makes a lot of money, then we do not have so much trouble with it. But that loss of child benefit and child-related budget starts with additional earnings of €1,300 per quarter. Then you're talking about a good $400 a month. We don't think that's a big deal. So our question to the Secretary of State is also whether there could be a look at that side-earning limit. And could we at least look at whether parents are not going to give more money to child schemes and so on than what their child has earned from hard-earned pennies? Because that could just be the case. So here too, the SGP says: work must pay, and let it be so in this case. We are very curious how the Secretary of State looks at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u113	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Then I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes. That's what I've been asked to do. This means that we are beginning to respond to the two Secretary of State at just five minutes past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u114	I see that Members are slowly coming back in. We have two directors: Secretary of State Van Ark for Social Affairs and Employment and Secretary of State Snel van Financiën. I will be the first to give the floor to Secretary of State Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u115	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input. I would like to start with a number of general lines. Then I want to look at the recovery of what has been found. Then I will deal with some questions about implementation and a number of other issues. As several Members of Parliament also noted, I am glad that today, although there was some delay, we can still deal with the legislative proposal. You could say that after a number of economically difficult years, we'll be better off. The economy is growing, employment is picking up, unemployment is falling and public finances are getting back on track. But the Netherlands must not only progress in statistics; the Dutch must also experience this themselves. And still many people think: beautiful, all those good economic figures, but they don't apply to me yet. It is my aim and that of the Cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The cabinet takes various measures specifically for families. With effect from 2019, the child benefit is increased by €88 per child per year. This involves an intensification of EUR 250 million. Working parents will also receive more childcare allowance from 2019. It also concerns EUR 250 million. In addition, with the current legislative proposal, the cabinet will pay almost EUR 500 million extra from 2020 to further support parents. In recent years, where income policies have focused mainly on supporting the lowest incomes, the government has chosen to further support the middle groups, the working parents, so that people also experience better in their personal lives. With the child-related budget, low- and middle-income parents receive income-related financial compensation for children's costs. At the moment, some 675,000 people receive a surcharge. The present legislative proposal, including the letter of amendment on which I would like to comment later, increases the point from 2020 when the income-dependent reduction of the child-related budget for couples starts. This increase applies only to couples. For single people, this bill doesn't change anything. They are already receiving a higher child-related budget from the single parent, and they will continue to receive it. As a result of this increase, a large proportion of the parent couples already receiving a child-related budget will receive more supplement. Then it's about 320,000 pairs. On average, they will receive more than €990 per year. In addition, there is a group of parent couples who, through the bill, are entitled or are again entitled to the child-related budget. Then it's about 294,000 parent couples. They will receive an average of €610 per year. Especially parent couples with an income between one and one and a half times modal, thus the middle income, are making progress through this measure. 60% of all single-earners with children benefit from the measure. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important that entitled parents actually receive that higher child-related budget. As your Chamber knows, this has not been done in all cases in the past as the legislator intended at the time. In my letter of 21 January and the answer to your questions this week, Secretary of State Snel and I informed your Chamber about the imperfection in the implementation of the child-related budget. The Tax Office Fees will recover deficiencies over the period 2013-2017, so that parents will still receive the child-related budget due to them on the basis of their claim over this period. I will say a little more about that date in response to Mr Kwint's question. The surcharge years 2018 and 2019 are not yet closed, so the granting to rightholders over these years is included in the regular process. As far as the future is concerned, the Tax Administration has indicated that the failure to implement the bill will be resolved, which will automatically award the child-related budget to parents and single parents for the 2020 supplement if there is another supplement. The same applies to the parents whose children's budget has been suspended in the past. As a result of adjusting the implementation processes, more parents will receive child-related budget. These are parents who are not currently receiving a child-related budget, but are entitled to it. For them, it is therefore a welcome concession and an increase in income. This concerns parents in all income classes and household types: single people, parent couples and sole earners. Non-use is expected to decrease. That's good, that's profit. It also means that structural expenditure on the child-related budget is higher than estimated. A letter of amendment therefore provides that no indexation will take place once in 2020. In this way, all parents contribute to the fact that more parents receive a supplement. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, the bill that was there would be dealt with. Then the omission appeared as a result of the detection of non-use. I thought I would inform the Chamber soon, because we were going to deal with that bill. Solving non-use does have a structural effect. I thought I would resolve that with the letter of amendment that is now before us. Mr. Chairman. This was my introduction. I would like to continue with the recovery of imperfection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u116	An interruption by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u117	Will the Secretary of State come back to the distribution of the letter of amendment on income effects by group? Or was that part of the introduction and was it finished with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u118	Definitely not. I've taken note of all the questions. I would also like to do justice to the questions and address them specifically as much as possible with the answer. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan asked about the past, including Mr Raemakers, Mrs Westerveld and others. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan said that when the child-related budget was introduced it was stated that any problems in implementation would be limited. How do you look at that? The child-related budget is essentially a relatively simple supplement. It has few foundations: income, wealth, household composition, number of children and age of children. In general terms, the child-related budget is therefore considered to be feasible. This was also the background to the assessment of feasibility when the child-related budget was introduced. The omission that has now been noted is not so much about the complexity of the implementation. However, the construction of the ICT system with which the child-related budget is provided, in retrospect, has been based on an incorrect starting point. This will be restored in the course of the year. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked whether people are going to receive what they are entitled to. He also asked about the period chosen in the letter I sent to the Chamber this week. The proposal is that the Tax Administration will recover over the period 2013-2017, so that the parents concerned will still receive the child-related budget they are entitled to in accordance with the law over this period. As I mentioned in my introduction, the 2018 and 2019 surcharges are not yet closed, so they are included in the regular process. I think that Mr Snel will soon say something about it. The Tax Office is currently examining how this recovery operation can be implemented. How do you get to a five-year term like this? I can honestly say that this is quite a dilemma. Several MPs have already referred to this. If you go back ten years with something you could have gotten, you'd say you'd take that term to look back. At the same time, there are also situations in which, if you go back further, you would say: how are you going to arrange that? For example, when people are divorced or moved, or when nasty things have taken place in a system, separate from the feasibility of the system. Those are all matters to be reckoned with. This also applies to the period from 2013, but the further you go back in time, the more difficult that becomes. In addition, there has been a change in ICT systems which has also made it more difficult to look back further. Perhaps the Secretary of State for Finance will say something about that. We also know from case law and from legal advice we have obtained that going back five years is a reasonable period of time. But I want to have said this anyway, because I can very well imagine that there are feelings about that time limit. I recognise the underlying dilemmas, but also in the context of the feasibility I felt I should take the period up to 2013. I've also sent this to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u119	This calls for an interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u120	I think that this is how we are going to look with the Secretary of State for Finance at the consequences of this compensation, and what possible problems may arise with, for example, the rent payment. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. That right shall apply from 2008. I realize it's getting more and more complicated, but wouldn't it be possible, as with the Day's WW Decision, to create some sort of reporting system for people who claim to have been entitled to this, so that they can report themselves? Is this not possible, instead of a compensation scheme for the whole group? 'Cause it's probably harder to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u121	It's of a different order because you're talking about complex processes about systems that aren't there anymore. It must also be verifiable and enforceable. It is a genuine dilemma in this respect. But that five-year period is a reasonable period of time, so I do not intend to set up a hotline for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u122	I have another point to make. The law existed from 2008. Soon this will probably lead to things from people who rightly say, "I was just entitled to this, and the government didn't allow me to use it, so I'm going to get my rights." Then we are stuck with all kinds of things and will eventually prove that we still have to allow things to happen. I would like to be in favour of that, and I would like to call on the Secretary of State to at least open up the matter. Otherwise, I can predict to the Secretary of State that we're going to have legal proceedings, just like we've had before with other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u123	I understand that warning. It is also difficult when the ratio conflicts with the sense of justice. I had legal advice on this because I really think it is important to enforce the law. But at the same time, I must look forward and ensure that it is done in reasonable terms. That has led me to this decision. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Kwint's question, which raised the issue, and he also did so in interrupting debates with colleagues who said that the single people and low incomes 'pay the price for this'. The child-related budget is intended to support families with children. As you know, that did not go well, and that is why we had to apply this recovery operation. It is true that this is what I have also indicated in the table, namely the single parents and lower incomes who see the effect of this in that table. However, I think this is a justified choice, if you look at the overall picture of the schemes that exist to support different income groups. I just mentioned the single parent receiving single parents as a supplement. That is also a significant amount, about €3.139. For example, there are other schemes, such as the child benefit which I have just referred to and which has been increased. This has happened in a similar way for all parents, which has led to an increase in the minimum levels in relative terms. Of course, we are dealing here with the bill on the child-related budget, but this is one of the arrangements in place to support people. All in all, therefore, I think that this is a reasonable proposal, especially since this bill was mainly intended to support middle income. By the way, as I heard from several Members of Parliament, there is always a moment in the year when we look at purchasing power widely. Of course, this cannot be done at the time of the examination of this bill, but that is something the cabinet always does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u124	This is what my group also calls 'energy notation defence'. There are also a lot of other arrangements and if you add them all together, you will see that it will be very good. Then it turns out later whether or not it is, and then it often turns out to be disappointing. It is amazing, however, that a legislative amendment to a scheme specifically designed for low incomes and middle income is the reason why the child-related budget was ever created and why we started doing this at all, going 500 million extra to families and that the final purchasing power effect for minima, people to a modal income and single parents is negative. I don't think you need to be a socialist like me to question that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u125	Mr. Chairman. If I were to tell a story here about one bird in the hand and ten in the air, I would certainly be able to follow Mr Kwint's reasoning. I have a number of birds in my hand, arrangements that we have already made a great deal of effort on in recent times and which have actually been knocked down in relative terms by people with a minimum income. This is demonstrable and can be seen directly on the account. The amount by which the child benefit has been increased, above €80, is the same for everyone. In relative terms, this is therefore more disappointing. In the case of childcare allowances, a scheme to which Mr Kwint also referred, low incomes only pay 4% of the cost. 96% of childcare costs are reimbursed. That's very different for higher incomes. I also understand the disappointment of the Chamber about this bill. I would also have preferred that we had not had an omission and that we could have kept the original bill. We couldn't. I also think it is important to ensure that things are well arranged and in the scaffolding stands for the future. Then I think it is justified, within the overall framework of regulations, to take this into account, especially since I know that we are making an overall assessment of purchasing power later in the year, and certainly always looking at the minima.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u126	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u127	Of course, there is no guarantee that it will be looked at. It is true: child benefit has gone up. In fact, the groups that make good use of this legislative proposal, from one and a half to two modes, have received exactly the same amount of money. You can also reverse the Secretary of State's reasoning. Given the origins and the purpose of the child-related budget, is it not extremely illogical for a setback to be taken into account in this way in a letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u128	In the event of setback, you can do two things: you can look away or you can take it by the head. We took this by the head, and it's not easy. The aim of this bill was to give the middle incomes a boost with this bill, where there has been a great deal of effort in recent times to support minima. It is precisely them who have had a hard time in recent years. That also means something for the solution you come up with when you take a problem by the head. And because I am also responsible in the broad spectrum, and therefore have an insight into the arrangements that exist to support people in their income, I think it is justified to make this assessment. That indeed shows a minus for this separate bill. On other legislative proposals, which have already been implemented so that they are not birds in the air but really birds in the hand, there are pluses. That makes it a fair balance for me. I would also like to say that we are looking at purchasing power in a broad sense, and we are always looking closely at the minima. That is indeed the bird in the air, but it passes by every year and we take it out of the sky every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u129	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u130	Mr. Chairman. Mr Gijs van Dijk said: this is a setback. We don't really have to solve that in this bill. This should be done in the spring decision-making process. In all transparency: for a lot of people the message that they have received is a lucky one. They might get money after that. For public finances, this is a setback which will indeed have to be fully weighed up in the spring decision-making process. I say honestly: that can indeed be within the SZW domain. But that's regular and it happens every year. The reason that setback has come to light is to look for the background of non-use. Non-use of around 12% in an automatic supplement is high. Solving the problem of cash-in-cashing will make more use of it in the future; more so than in the original legislative proposal. That's structural. I don't think it's more than fair to take that in my face right now. Otherwise, I know that next year I will join the Chamber with a deficit of 50 million, while next year there will also be people who need that money very badly. This has led me to follow the budgetary rules as Mr Van Dijk rightly points out in the case of occasional money, but in a structural sense there is indeed something that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u131	This is indeed about the budgetary rules, but the automatic allocation was already in the law. There is no change in policy. The law is simply implemented in the right way, so the costs are higher. That's a bummer. I think that's why. This will indeed end up with the entire cabinet in the spring. It can then drop again at SZW. The Secretary of State does not have to solve it here, because there is in fact no policy change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u132	Sometimes it's kind of hard. The budgetary rules are simply rules of the game that we have agreed with each other. If the non-use drops, you have to fix it. You make an arrangement and hope it will be used 100%. In fact, it defies your sense of justice when you consider spending more when the scheme is fully used. But that's actually the rule of the game we agreed on. Because I do not want to push any problems forward to the future and do not want to anticipate all kinds of red figures in the future, I think it is important to solve this now. That is certainly true because I know that the occasional setback in the order of magnitude as I have informed the Chamber is going to have to solve this problem, and that is really heavy money. For this, I have to go to the spring decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u134	Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint also asked why the choice was made for non-indexation. I have just had an exchange of views with Mr Kwint on this. But perhaps just a few more options, which are good. You could also increase the phasing-out rate. An increase in the phasing-out rate is accompanied by negative labour market effects; the so-called higher marginal pressure. You could lower the ALO head. That's the money single parents get. However, the risk of poverty is relatively high for children of single parents. So lowering the ALO head increases that risk. You could use a hard limit of €55,000, for example. That was also a suggestion from the SP. But all of a sudden, you have a big income drop if you just go over that amount. I don't think that's desirable. Moreover, I am aware of the concerns of the Chamber as regards post-payment and recovery. This will lead to more recovery. Then you could increase the income limit for couples less, for example from €16,500 to €15,000. My reaction would be: we want to focus on middle incomes. Since we have already made a considerable effort in recent years to support and continue to support the lowest incomes, we specifically choose to do so in this way. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u135	The last sentence in particular raises a question for me, because the Secretary of State actually says that we have actually helped the minimum incomes in a number of places in recent years, and that is why we choose the middle incomes. At the same time, we have a proposal that shows that the group that actually needs the money most is at least making progress. I would then like to ask the Secretary of State if there are any substantive reasons for saying that we are opting for those middle incomes and not for lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u136	This is also mentioned in the note on the report. But looking at what has happened in recent years, in the financial crisis but also in the expenditure pattern, you see that when necessary measures are taken, the middle income is very often looked at. That is precisely what is happening to ensure that the people who are at the minimum level do not sink through the ice. Over the last few years, we have asked a lot of middle-income people and the cabinet has believed that it is a good thing to make such an effort that the middle-income people also think: the government is there for me; they not only know how to find me when things are going badly, but also when things are getting better. We are doing it this way, because we can do it now, because we are not only taking this measure but also many others. I'm careful with minimum wage arrangements and around them. For example, I sent the children's accounts to the Chamber. The study showed that single parents at the minimum level were actually compensated much more in cash than they have cost for children. That is no reason for me to say: I am going to reduce that drastically. No, then I say it doesn't match the images, the experiences we have and the stories I hear when I talk to people about it, and that's why I'm going to investigate it further. So it's not like I'm out to make minimum income schemes more austere. In the specific case now before us, I think it is justified, because it is part of a palette and precisely because this bill aims to support middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u137	But we have all these different schemes, and specifically this scheme, to help people with a minimum income. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is strange at least that this group is not progressing? You could even say she's getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u138	What we're doing is not indexing for a year. The amount remains the same, of course, but let's be honest: life becomes more expensive and if you get the same amount, you go backwards. I have also been very transparent about this. It wasn't the original bill either, and it should be clear that it wasn't at the top of the list as "we're gonna do that for a while." The moment you have a problem, you have to fix it. I have just spoken to Mr Kwint about this, and I am going to look at the objectives. What do we want to achieve? We want to support the middle incomes, the people who have had to leave a lot in recent years. I think it is justified, precisely because we have increased family allowances, we have started working on the childcare allowance, we are actively focusing on poverty policies and we are making schemes such as the ALO head and the increases in substantial income support for people at the minimum level. Does it make me happy? No. Was it necessary to correct the error? Yes. Given the overall picture, I think this is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u139	I have a question about that ALO head. It is true that it is about single people and they often have it even harder. The Secretary of State also rightly stated that there is a risk of poverty, especially in that group. But the Secretary of State also indicated that this is not a reason for her to do anything with it now, but that she does want to investigate it. Can the Secretary of State explain exactly what she is about to investigate at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u140	A number of issues have emerged in the screening of child schemes. Thematics which also had a place here in the debate, for example the problems of the 16 and 17 year olds and the additional income scheme in the child allowance. But it was also a observation from the scientists that, if you look at the arrangements and the costs that people make for children, there is one group that, if you look on paper, would get significantly more compensated than they have cost. Those are single parents with a minimum income. But if you turn that off against the stories of the people we all speak of and the experiences we hear from them, then it would be quite a bold observation to say: we see that on paper, so we are going to deal with that. I used this example to point out to Mrs Westerveld that I am very reluctant when it comes to dealing with arrangements in case of people who are at the minimum level. That is precisely why I said in this case: I am going to do more research, because this is not in line with experience and with what I hear in people's conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u141	Finally, Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u142	The position of that single person is indeed very important for D66, so I am glad that the Secretary of State stresses that once again, but I keep wondering what remains to be investigated in that investigation. Indeed, we often hear people saying: we are really in poverty, we are really in trouble. If you then look at the policy review, it is true that it says: they are actually compensated more than cost-effectively. So I am very much in favour of seeing how we can better help that group, perhaps with other arrangements, but I am also, like the Secretary of State, very reluctant to say: we should then cut them short. I think we should not want to do that, and we should look at how we are going to help the single person better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u143	Thank you. Can I ask both the members and the Secretary of State to ask for a shorter time and answer? Otherwise, we're gonna start running a lot out of time. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u144	Mr. Chairman. I'll try to put my answers together. I've said a lot in interruptions. Mr Peters asked what I'm going to do to get the non-use down. With the adjustment of the implementation processes at the Tax Administration, it is my expectation that the non-use will go down, so that about 70,000 additional parents will receive child-related budget. These are parent couples who are entitled to this as a result of the legislative proposal, who have to apply for it themselves. And it's parents who have to apply themselves because they don't receive any other supplement. The latter are actively approached. Perhaps the colleague will discuss this later, but the Tax Administration will also approach them by letter. If the number of applications falls short of the expectations we have, at least a second letter will follow. I will continue to follow the execution. Then Mr Peters asked what to do with parents who do work in the Netherlands, but have children who attend school abroad, and why we do not apply the principle of housing. If you export child benefit, child-related budget, to countries outside Europe, where life is cheaper, then the country of residence principle applies, which adjusts the level of the scheme to the cost of living in the country in question. But within Europe, we have also referred to others in this regard, namely the Social Security Coordination Regulation. It opposes the application of that country-of-country principle. We have worked hard to change this, but the Minister, because it is also the portfolio of the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Tugendhat, told you last year that this has not yet been achieved. In fact, there are only four other countries in Europe which are in favour of the country of residence principle. However, we continue to strive to change the export policy on child schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u145	I understand that many countries do not agree, of course. If you have children in Romania and you work here and get them sponsored, so to speak, by the Dutch government, they wouldn't be happy the other way around. I have a technical question. How often is it the other way around, that Dutch people work abroad and that the money flow comes from abroad to the Netherlands? I think very little, and if it doesn't have to be the other way around, I wonder why it has to be this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u146	I do not have this fully ready, so I would like to come back to that in second term, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u147	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u148	Then Mr Peters also asked how to ensure timely cessation on departure from the Netherlands, in order to avoid undesirable situations. It is, of course, important to avoid the risk of abuse. In order to establish the law, therefore, the SVB is always in contact with the sister body abroad and data on working and living in Europe are checked. The Tax Administration investigates the partner and any income abroad. In addition, the Tax Administration and the SVB carry out research when there is a signal, for example if the data exchange from the policy administration shows that someone is no longer employed. There can also be a signal via exchange with health insurance companies or through the sister institution abroad if someone is claiming benefits abroad. In addition, I am currently looking at how we can further improve the implementation process for foreign cases, in line with the aforementioned policy review, together with the Tax Administration for Fees and the SVB. There is also an approved Wiersma motion to monitor social security for fraud. I expect to be able to inform your Chamber about this after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u149	Very briefly. Look, I'm not waiting for press releases like there have been about people from Poland saying: you know what, I'm going back a long time and I can't hear it. I would, if I could, like a little more comfort: what's going to happen to that? That answer may not have to be now, but I'd like to get it in writing: how exactly do you do it? 'Cause it's just gonna happen right now, and then we're gonna be back here with the fried pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u150	I also went to work the other day to see how that enforcement and checking go abroad. There is a great deal of commitment to this. Where the practice is inadequate, we will also see what we can do about it. I would certainly like to list a little more fully in response to Mr Peters' question in the second term, but I can at least say that the subject is of great interest to me, because I think it is really important that our facilities should end up where they belong. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins asked about the single parents in the border regions. I think he wants these facilities to end up with those parents. It is true that a single person working abroad is not insured in the Netherlands. This situation also occurs in Germany, for example. This is the result of the functioning of Union law. At present, proceedings are pending before the Court of Justice. Both SVB and SZW are awaiting a judgment resulting from it. So, unfortunately, I can't say anything about that at the moment. Mr Bruins also asked why there are different regimes for the different surcharges. In fact, you should assign as much automatic as possible; that is of course quite nice, and it is often referred to by advisory bodies. In the case of the child-related budget, the choice was made at the time to tax people as little as possible. For most people, the Tax Administration actually has all the data needed to provide the child-related budget on the basis of the data from other supplements. For the other surcharges, the Tax Administration does not have all the information necessary to grant the surcharge. Mr Stoffer then asked about the earning limit in child benefit. Is it still up-to-date? The earning limit is €1.296 per quarter. This level is linked to the basic amount for family allowances. That by-earning limit is actually a bit of a strange element in child benefit, because it is further independent of the parents' income. Then it's actually strange if he is dependent on the child's income. In specific situations, the level of the earning limit also leads to bottlenecks. The introduction of the single parent head may make the amount that is reduced comparable, but it may even be higher than the income. Even if, for example, you zoom in on young people who do a bbl-training and receive a collective wage, you can see that, depending on the size of the working week, it may be above the earning limit. I have also noted this problem in the policy review of child schemes which I sent to the Chamber at the end of last year. The Court has indicated that it would like to discuss this policy review and this theme in the next general consultation. I would also like to do that, because I believe that the legislative proposal that is now before us does not provide the appropriate tools for resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u151	But Mr Bruins wants to talk about it now too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u152	I'm going back a minute, Madam President. At that time we were discussing the two motions on the border region, and the child schemes in Germany and the Netherlands. The answer was: there's a lawsuit going on, so I can't really say anything about it right now. But the two motions I referred to, by Mrs Van der Graaf, actually say: make it clear what the effects are and do a regional check. And I asked about the execution of those motions. The answer may have to be something other than: there's a lawsuit going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u153	That's right. If I'm right, it's about the motion at the Home Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u154	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u155	I am involved in this from the border labour market regions. I will check the state of play and come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u157	Thank you. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment came at the end of her first term. But perhaps it would be useful if she were to give an opinion on the amendments. There are three amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u158	Mr President, I would certainly like to do that. I have indeed received three amendments. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 9. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Stoffer. I have to take a look, because I actually wanted to do this in the second term. This amendment is designed to extend the access of parents of minors to family allowances regardless of the choice of their child's training. This has passed here a number of times. This amendment is also in line with the findings of the policy review to assist parents. It states that the requirements for 16- and 17-year-olds under a scheme may raise questions about parents' income without further conditions. In addition, we were talking about the so-called side-earning limit, which we were talking about just now. This proposal is covered by an increase in the phasing-out rate. This leads to a higher marginal pressure. It's a limited increase, but she's here. I find the purpose of the amendment sympathetic. And I hope that you can understand from my word that I think that the subject matter and the problem raised in the policy review are actually well put on the table in the stories as put forward by Mr Kwint and Mr Stoffer. In any case, I would like to endorse the Court's proposal to discuss this policy review in the next general consultation. I do not think that this bill is the appropriate legislative proposal to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u159	This would discourage the amendment. I give the floor to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u160	In any case, I am pleased that the cabinet recognizes the problem. But this problem has existed for some time; it is already the introduction of the loan system. So far, we have not been able to change anything about this by means of a motion. There's now a bill on child regulation. We will be able to agree that child benefit is a child benefit scheme, and that is what this is about. So why isn't this a good time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u161	We are now discussing the bill on child-related budget. That bill has a very clear purpose. The coalition reached agreement on this in the coalition agreement, with different objectives. That agreement has been reached in such a detailed manner that even the amount we are going to reduce is exactly in the coalition agreement. It is therefore important to translate this agreement into legislation. This is without prejudice to the fact that the problems raised here do exist and are relevant. I think that we should now give our hands and feet to the bill that is now before us, which is intended to actually support middle incomes, especially couples, and that we should not confuse these two issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u162	With all due respect, the Secretary of State is getting things mixed up. There's an amount in the coalition agreement. Our amendment does not touch that amount. Our amendment touches on the phasing-out rate. Yeah, of course it has consequences for people, too. But putting aside this by appealing to the coalition agreement is a little too easy for us, or at least for me. In this connection, the following is connected. At the moment when there is a general consultation, we can agree on it and we recognise the problem. Then a motion is filed and then the cabinet probably responds with "yes, you have to come with cover." There's cover here. Here is a concrete proposal: one child scheme for another. It doesn't touch the coalition agreement. I'm still not so sure of the reasons why this is not a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u163	It's not like I can take one child scheme for another. What we now have is the Children's Budget Act, with a specific objective. The amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Stoffer, however sympathetic, leads to a higher marginal pressure and thus contributes to a lesser degree to the purpose of the law than the variant I have proposed. That means that I'm deceiving it right now, also because I think we shouldn't solve that in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u164	I'm trying to listen a little. I can imagine something about the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State. But do I hear in those words as much as "not by this law, but we'll fix it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u165	I see a problem which has not only been raised several times in the Chamber, but which is now reflected in the policy review. By the way, it is broader, because it is also about the side-earning limit. So two problems have emerged. Trouble is there to solve. At the same time, we are already solving a lot of problems. One of these problems has been that in recent years the middle incomes have mainly had to pay and are now getting some. I don't want to use one solution to the other problem. That's what I'm saying here. It doesn't fit to take an advance on solutions before they're secured, so I won't. But I do appreciate that the problem is now very clearly on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u166	Then there are the other two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u167	Mr. Chairman. I have another amendment from Mr Kwint which increases the starting point at which the income-related reduction of the child-related budget for couples is increased by €15,000 instead of €16,750. That is why I reject this amendment, because that is an agreement we have made with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u168	That was the amendment in part No. 10. And the amendment to item No. 11?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u169	The amendment in part No. 11. I would also like to thank you for the amendments, because they are covered proposals. This amendment looks at the non-indexation but the modification of the phasing-out rate. This means negative labour market effects, and I do not choose to do so. That is why I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u170	That too is: dissuade. I see an interruption by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u171	I waited until the Secretary of State was at the end of her speech. One of my questions has remained. I asked how long the SZW Ministry had been aware of this 50 million error and how we can prevent it for the future. I have not heard that very clearly in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u172	For example, in the time when the original system was built, no execution keys were done. A big difference from the past is that when a law or regulation is amended, we also take an execution test. Then we ask the Tax Office: this is what we would like to do; can you make it? Then they also say how they're going to do it and then we can check whether that's actually what we asked for. At the time of the construction of this system, this was not yet a practice. I think that is an important reason for how this could have happened. There's also the tuition we paid. Nowadays, we're doing things differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u173	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u174	But here's what I'm wondering. Under the responsibility of SZW, a law must be implemented. There are a number of elements in that. How then is it that these elements are not put into practice at all? Then maybe it's going somewhere before the execution test goes wrong. Could the Secretary of State indicate how she will do this differently in the future? Better pay attention to the laws? I don't know, but maybe that's a suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u175	I'm getting a lot of implementation tests that show how the legislation is implemented in ICT systems. Then you can check it out. But if you're all convinced that a law has been introduced into a system and you haven't done or haven't been able to do that check, then something like this could happen. I also indicated in the written reply that, for example, in the first year when there was a lot of attention to it, there were also many requests. It seemed to me that that was wrong to go well. Because after that the new system was grafted onto the old one, there was no ringing a bell. I cannot give any guarantees that a mistake will never be made again or that this will never happen again, but I think that, precisely because of the agreements we have now, by really working with execution tests, many of these problems can at least be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u176	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to your Chamber for allowing me to join this debate this afternoon. I think that most of the questions, which were actually about the new regulation for the child-related budget and looking ahead, have been answered by Mr Van Ark. I think my role was mostly in the following. How could in 2008 that moment arise when legislation is being made and implemented, and that after that a number of questions from the Members of Parliament were also raised there for ten years nobody seems to notice? That is quite remarkable in itself. I'll admit it right away. One of the statements already came out here. It has indeed to do with the fact that no execution tests have been carried out in the past. That can never be the whole explanation, because even if there had been an execution test and it had said "the implementation is fine, but not in accordance with legislation," you should still have had a call somewhere that said: that's funny; it looks perfect, but it's just not good. In fact, even more so, and then we look further at all the subsequent legislative changes that we have made in the years after, it has been stated up to and including the explanatory notes that in those cases where this automation did not pay off, parents should simply apply for that budget. There have also been calls from the Tax Phone, asking: am I entitled, and how? The answer was neatly given according to the script: yes, you are just entitled to that supplement; you must apply for it. It's a system error in that sense. That is why I am trying to stay a little away from some of the suggestions, which came mainly from Mr Kwint, about 'the ruins at the service'. I'm sure we'll talk about something else tonight, but this hasn't been all the time but screwed up, in the sense of "sometimes it has and sometimes it hasn't." A system error has been made, and it has actually been implemented very consistently, without policy makers, legislators and testers noticing it. That's not pretty. That is what Mr Van Ark and I said at the outset. We're glad we found out. And this is what we're gonna solve, because this can't happen again. Can we give guarantees that this will never happen again? Probably not, but the chances are less, because the way we dealt with legislation and implementation tests 15 years ago is really different from what we do now. Implementation and legislation are much more common. They're being incorporated into the same chain. There are many more checks-and-balances. Mr Raemakers asked for that. So let's hope we're all so smart and good that we don't get that anymore, but real guarantees on that point are obviously not to be given. That actually answers a few questions at the same time. How could it be? What took you so long? Because everyone thought it was in accordance with the law. We finally discovered at a check why non-use remained so high. We then found that the whole implementation practice, which everyone seemed to support, did not comply with the 2008 legislation. And that's where we are now. Then there will be a number of other questions. How are we gonna fix that now? I think that's one of the most important questions. Mrs Nijkerken had another question about that. It's not that simple. Let me put it this way. I've just explained: it depends a little on which system you're in. If you look back a few years, we have the same system that's been active for a number of years, and then we can get quite a lot back. Of that we really have the idea that we can find out with a little difficulty who should have rights and how we can serve them. That's gonna be harder the more we go back in time. Of course, that has to do with the fact that all kinds of things may have changed. I believe that is what Mr Peters said. Families are composed differently. People may have been abroad and back. So as we go back in time, the number of changes is greater, but also the connection in the systems is more difficult. That does not mean, however, that I am looking at Mr Van Dijk that, although it is difficult, the rights of these people have fallen. We can say that we are now going back five years. We can do that well, and it seems reasonable to do so, given other legal statements. That doesn't mean that there can be an individual case where someone says: I was just entitled to it, but I didn't get it and I want it. It may well be that if that is brought before the courts, it is said that you were entitled to it, so you must have it. Once that happens, maybe it can happen twice, or a hundred times, or a thousand times. That is why I think what Mr Van Ark said was right: we need to be aware of this. At the same time, we also know that if we really try to look retroactively at what happened sometime in 2008 or 2009, the chance that we can completely reconstruct that and that there is sufficient evidence for that is less. It's a little trickier, but it's not impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u178	Thank you for these answers from the Secretary of State. Because it is relatively easier until 2013, the line might still be able to create a reporting system for individuals who say: I had that right, I still have that right and I am going to talk to the Tax Administration to see if that can be retrieved. You have to leave an opening there. Otherwise, I predict that the Secretary of State also says that the people are going to try to make it through the judge, after which they will probably get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u179	That choice wasn't made. That has just been explained by my colleague Van Ark. Here's what I'm saying. That's the point you're making, and you're right about that. If there was an individual right that can be proved because there are good data to check out, there must be some kind of counter auction system of ours to be able to say: you were right in saying that it is indeed not impossible for those people to get them right. Then we'll have to give them what they're entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u181	Then there was the question about the recovery operation. I've just explained what we're doing, how complicated that is and how it's going to be in time. Mrs Nijkerken asked for that too. We are currently trying to see how we can best implement this technically, what systems we need for that and whether we can also give sufficient certainty that we have it right. I intend to list all the target groups we have in mind for the summer and to give the necessary actions we need to take to your Chamber. If things work out the way we think they can, we will start the recovery actions in 2019. These will in any case continue until 2020 and, if necessary, it will still have to be demonstrated how complicated it is until 2021. One thing is clear: we must not rush this. We really need to know. If there's a right for people, we should also see if that's okay. It is important and I fully support it, but we must be careful that we do not all hope that this has happened in a month. Perhaps you do not hope so, Mr President, but if this is the case, I will try to explain this. Then there were a few more specific questions. How much time I need for the investigation, I just indicated. Mr Kwint said: once again it appears that the service is doing something wrong, should the child care allowance still be implemented by him? I indicated that I do not think that this dossier had much to do with the dossiers we are going to discuss tonight, for example. This is really a system error. We believe that the kgb we are proposing is also feasible in the new situation. Moreover, the Cabinet considers that the feasibility of the child care allowance at the Tax Office is in good hands. In fact, if you look at, for example, margins of error in that scheme and the ability of the Tax Administration to make better advances than in the past, you see that the childcare allowance is certainly not the worst when it comes to the effectiveness of the scheme. I think the cabinet has done well to choose to keep it with the Tax Administration. Again, the design error we have just mentioned has nothing to do with the issue of childcare payments, let alone the ICT issues we have at the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u182	The Secretary of State deserves a compliment for his optimism. "We didn't make mistakes for ten years, but we just went through one mistake for ten years" was just said. And now it's: well, the childcare allowance isn't even the worst in the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u183	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u184	It has been preceded by a very extensive weighing process. Wouldn't it be better to sit with DUO? Couldn't you also reduce the risk of people getting into debt by financing childcare directly? If the problems with the child care allowance at the Tax Office were so small and if it goes so well in implementation, why did 20 million go into a preparatory process to investigate that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u185	Those are probably very good questions, but they belong more in a debate on the childcare allowance. I am just trying to point out that there is actually no relationship between what we are talking about today and the childcare allowance; not in terms of ICT, not in terms of implementation and not really in terms of policy content. Again, for other reasons, the cabinet has finally chosen that the implementation of the child care allowance should remain with the Tax Office for Supplements and be well secured there. Mr Van Dijk asked what exactly is the situation with regard to the recovery payments for other supplements. In any case, it is good to know that the amount to be paid for a child-related budget over the older years is not seen as income, so does not count in the income test. It may be that you get it and that it increases the power so that the power test is hit at some surcharges. That's possible, but that's much more circumstantial than when your income should be taken away. I have already answered Mr Raemakers' question about those ten years. Mr Van Dijk asked why it is impossible to look back more than five years. I just said something about that. It's not impossible, it's technically complicated. It's only easier for the first five years, because we've had that system since 2012, so we can all follow it from the 2013 supplement. I just said something about that. Mr Petersen asked about non-use. Mr Van Ark has just indicated what that was like, including a letter. In the future, we're gonna see what's going on, and then we're gonna send a letter, so we're gonna know faster if the policy is successful or not. That brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u186	Thank you very much for that. That is why we have come to the end of the first term of office. Oh, I see another interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u187	I don't think a few questions have been answered, but I doubt for a moment which ruler they belong to. We have asked whether we also know whether there are families or people who have been in serious financial difficulties because they have not received the allowances they were entitled to in recent years. Is there any record of that at all? We also asked if we know what the distribution is. There are averages in the letter that people haven't gotten, but do we know anything about the distribution? With an average you can go either way as an individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u188	Perhaps it would be good to return to both questions in the second term. I think if we look at what we have, we do have something of an idea, because we know who that arrangement was meant for. You can see which income groups do that. Is that a modular, one and a half modes or two modes? We can see if we can do that. It's always complicated with money if people get into financial trouble, because that's often because of a combination of things. I think it's really hard to see that one-on-one, even when I say we're gonna look at it, so I think that first question is tricky. On the second question, I will see if I can say anything about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u189	Thank you. Then we move on to the second term of office. Mr Wiersma waived the second term. I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP Group, who will not be deprived of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u190	All in all, it is a rather disappointing debate. We have four coalition parties here who have made the lucky choice that they have an additional 500 million to distribute to children's budget. This is an important support for families who could use a little support. They all say the same thing: this was the best possible outcome. I really think it is a great achievement to be able to give away 500 million, and then to come up with a proposal that reduces single minimums to a minimum and at the same time says that this is the best possible outcome. Of course, 100 other outcomes would have been possible. And I even assume that out of those 100 out of my head, at least 80 would have been better than this one. There are amendments, which have been said enough. Those are the amendments that I would like to stress, which do not affect the coalition agreement. The government agreement refers to "the amount of the amount" and not to the phasing-out rate. One of the amendments does, however, touch on this, but that would once again be a very sensible adjustment of the coalition agreement. It's supposed to be in these days. Secretary of State Snel says there are no guarantees that things will not go wrong elsewhere. I think it makes perfect sense for him to say that, because you can never give guarantees like that. My question was a little more specific, namely: should the kind of error that has been made in the child-related budget also be a reason to look at other arrangements? Should other similar arrangements be considered, where there may be similar ICT problems or substantive problems, so that we do not have to have such a debate again in the future? And finally, the students and the parents. I find it amazing how the Chamber has not been able to find a suitable time to discuss and agree on this for a few years. There's always a better time. That's a bit of what I used to have when I had to clean up my room: tomorrow was always better than today. But I have also heard the majority of Members of Parliament. They say this is not the right law. I come from the time when there was decent arithmetic, so I can count and then I see the majority that Mr Stoffer and I had in mind slowly disappear behind the horizon. But I hear a lot of people say they recognize the problem. They say, "This has to happen sometime." In order to prevent us from having another debate in the near future in which we say that it is the wrong time and that we may have to do something about it in the future, we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas parents of approximately 22,500 students who were previously entitled to study funding are still not entitled to family allowances and child-related budget;]] [[Whereas officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment argue in the policy review that parents should simplify and reconsider this provision in the General Child Benefits Act;]] [[calls on the Government to propose to the Spring Paper that parents of students who were previously entitled to study funding should be entitled to family allowances and child-related budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint, Mr Stoffer and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm actually very satisfied. I welcome the legislative proposal and the fact that we are going to support a lot more people. I can also live with the cover proposal, as I said. I did, however, ask one question in the first period to which I received an answer which I did not really like. That was the principle of the country of residence. The Secretary of State has indicated that we might share that it would be a good idea, but that it is not possible at the moment. I had actually prepared a motion, but I am now asking for a commitment: make it very clear to me why it is not possible. And then investigate what might be possible, and inform the Chamber about it. What's possible to do this? Then I have a motion on the income effects, as I announced in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a system error in the implementation of the child-related budget has not automatically paid out to all parents entitled to it in recent years;]] [[also noted that a recovery operation paid the child-related budget retroactively to parents who had been entitled to it since 2013 but did not have it;]] [[calls on the Government to pay explicit attention to the structural and incidental correction of the system error in the implementation of the Children's Budget Act when measuring purchasing power effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u192	I look forward to receiving the second-term reply from the Secretary of State on the principle of housing. And I hope for a response, including from the Minister, through a letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Peters. Mr Raemakers waived a second-term contribution. The same applies to Mr Bruins. I call Mr van Dijk from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u194	Mr. Chairman. I started with the slingshots for this beautiful bill, but because of the mistake that has been made for ten years, there has been a very detrimental effect for low-income people and for single parents. That is why the Labour Party's opinion on this bill is negative. We think it is very good to support middle-class groups, but this should never be at the expense of low-income people or single parents. So let me be clear about that. We are looking for another problem. That's what we talked about with the two Secretary of State. This concerns those who were entitled to that child-related budget between 2008 and 2013. We believe that they should also be given their right. So I'm coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since the introduction of the Child-Based Budget Act in 2008, automatic allocation has not worked;]] [[noting that only compensation will now be provided from 2013 onwards and that the lost revenues of the previous years will not be compensated;]] [[Whereas this compensation for parents who should receive the child-related budget is a highly desirable and necessary supplement;]] [[believes that parents should be sure of a reliable government and should not be the victims of errors by the Tax Administration;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a reporting system in which disabled parents who are currently not compensated for the years 2008-2013 can themselves contact the Tax Administration to receive their legitimate compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u196	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall look at Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u197	Mr. Chairman. Initially, we thought the bill was a step in the right direction, although GroenLinks would have liked to see it differently. We are in favour of a single scheme that combines family allowances and the child-related budget and makes it dependent on income. That's not gonna happen. As has been said, the bill is a step in the right direction, but at the same time we are very critical of a tax authorities error. We also asked questions about this in the first period. What we do not think is acceptable is that this post-payment will also count for the assets, because this may have negative consequences for people who, for example, receive welfare benefits. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people have missed child-related budget due to a government error;]] [[noting that those affected will still receive this budget, but that this post-payment may have an impact on other income schemes involving capital;]] [[considers that it is undesirable that this post-payment may reduce the benefit to another person;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the post-payment does not have any other financial effects in the knowledge of other benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u198	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both Secretary of State for answering the questions. Mr Kwint indicated that he was not very satisfied, and so on. Let me say that we have submitted a number of things together, but I am quite satisfied with the law now before us. I would also like to put that right: the pendulums, as Mr Van Dijk pointed out, are not there, but the flag is already there. And as far as we're concerned, so can this law. There are still two things to solve. This is first of all the injustice that parents with 16- and 17-year-olds are doing in higher education. Hence the motion tabled by Mr Kwint and I together. My predecessor just grabbed me that he was already working on it in the past. Well, I've been here almost a year now. So it's just time we solved that. I wonder what the rest of the Chamber thinks about that. The other point concerns the supplementary income scheme. In this respect, I agree with what the Secretary of State said, namely to take it up with a subsequent AO. I'm assuming we're just gonna get out of here. And, if not, we'll have the room to file another motion. I guess I don't have one on me right now either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u199	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. How nice that our debate is still being followed by your predecessor. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Then I'll suspend the meeting. In a moment, we will continue with the decisions of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u200	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u201	Thank you, Mr President. I still have a few questions to ask. Starting with a question from Mrs Westerveld about the most common group. In any case, I have listed in the letter. The most common group is a household with two partners, two or three children and a household income of one or two modes. This is without prejudice, as the Secretary of State for Finance pointed out, to the fact that we are going to carry out a number of investigations into the target group. Mr Bruins asked about the border regions and the relationship with the implementation of the 'border work' motion. I have not yet been able to identify the state of implementation of that motion. I will come back to this in writing, because the primary responsibility for this lies with another department. Mr Peters asked how we can prevent ourselves from getting into fraudulent situations. After the summer, your Chamber will receive the alert letter on fraud phenomena; this topic was also discussed in the AO SUWI during the week. In that letter I will also answer this question. Moreover, the SVB always has contact with the sister institution to verify the situation for the purpose of providing child benefit abroad. Mr Peters also asked how often it is the other way around, so that people have a benefit in another country, which is supplemented by the Netherlands. This question also refers to the coordination regulation which contains a number of priority rules. The country where the child lives and the parent works goes for the country where the other parent works. To quote Mr Peters' example: if one parent lives with the child in Romania and the other parent works in the Netherlands, Romania pays the child benefit and supplements the Netherlands. Mr Peters has asked a number of questions about the country of residence principle, which I certainly recognize from the discussions that my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, is having on this subject. At present, we know a distinction between countries within Europe and countries outside Europe. It should be clear what the government's policy is about. It should also be clear that this is difficult, given how this is done in the European Union in terms of decision-making. I need to be realistic about the feasibility right now. That is without prejudice to the fact that we will continue to fight for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u202	I understand that, and I hope so. My question is actually very simple. When I look through my eye hairs, as they say so beautifully, I hardly see money from other countries coming this way because of all kinds of regulations, but apparently the other way around. There is nothing we can do about that, because that is not what Europe wants. I understand that Europe does not want that, precisely because these financial flows are moving in that direction. I don't agree with that. I have asked for a letter, very clearly, explaining why that is not possible and what is being investigated at the moment to ensure that it is possible. I understand that you and the Minister are trying hard, but I also want to hear how you do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u203	I will also check with my colleague the Minister; it is his portfolio. I'm coming to the motions. The motion-Kwint c.s. in piece No. 12 is about the parents of the approximately 22,500 students who were previously entitled to study funding, but no longer on family allowances and the child-related budget. I understand that Mr Stoffer is also in a long tradition on this point. I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion anyway. That has to do with its untimelyness. Your Chamber has indicated that it would like to discuss this motion in a general discussion. If I ask you to hold the motion, I think I am actually already taking an advance on something I cannot do now, as I indicated in the debate. I think we could all see that it is very good that the problem is now on the table and that we have agreed to discuss it on the basis of the policy review. But I think that should be done at that time, and that is why I advise against the motion. I shall leave Mr Peters' motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u204	I think we've already exchanged a lot of arguments, Mr. Kwint. Maybe a very short question, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u205	When wouldn't the motion be untimely?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u206	That was a very short question. Yeah, I get that. Don't feel encouraged to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u207	In the case of a motion on such an issue, I would at least suggest to the House that the subject does not just disappear from the radar again. But I also think you shouldn't make empty promises. As long as there's no cover, I'm not gonna make any promises about it. So that's how long it's untimely. Mr. Chairman. I'll speed it up. The Peters motion in part No. 13 I leave to the judgment of the Chamber. I think that is also a good time to look fully at the purchasing power effects. The motion in part No. 14 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, however sympathetic, I must advise against, because it results in a great deal of complexity and we now have to work on a regulation for the last few years. The Westerveld motion in part No. I have to advise against 15 because the benefits as they exist also have power tests. It is true that regulations like this have an effect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u208	A brief question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u209	With all due respect, but we all know that the government often causes the biggest problems for people who have a hard time. We see here again that people get a post-payment, when they don't know that they have to report it to the municipality and that they then get a fine for it. In this way we can see that a lot of people, especially the people who receive welfare benefits, are affected by this regulation of the rain. That's what's behind this: we don't want this group to get hurt. Again, we know that with all the rules that exist, the government is often the cause of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u210	In the words of Mrs Westerveld, I hear something that is of great concern to me. But we can also arrange this information in a different way. In fact, I can inform municipalities that this action is under way, when there are post-payments that can have an effect on a benefit. For example, they can proactively talk to people who have a benefit so that they can arrange it and there are no post-op situations. I read in Mrs Westerveld's motion that she wants a post-payment to have no effect on the level of other benefits. I cannot respond to that aspect, which is why I did not recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u211	Mrs Westerveld, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u212	But it's really weird, isn't it, that we're giving people what they were entitled to now, and that they're then duped because they're going to get a post-payment? Then we're dealing with a group of people who don't benefit from this at all. I have to rephrase, Mr. Chairman. These are people who are still affected by the government, when they are just entitled to this amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u213	My suggestion would be that we start investigating the target group now. How can we best approach them? There will be problems. One of the problems we encounter, for example, is that people have benefits and that a post-payment can have an effect on their benefits. This will also create other problems. The Secretary of State for Finance has also indicated that it will inform the Chamber of the recovery operations. I want to be realistic in that sense. We have some regulations that you're exempt from in the Participation Act. There are, but they are limited, and they are often related to a medical cause or because people have had an accident. This motion is of a different order, so I now declare that I advise against it. But I think we should also look at what problems we are all going to encounter on our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u214	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-14.u215	The votes on the motions and the three amendments take place on Tuesday after the Krokusreces, so that is on 5 March.
