ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. We'll start a little later than planned. I would, of course, like to welcome Members of Parliament and everyone who is following this debate. The next item is the general affairs budget, bill 35300-III, and bill 35300-I, the king's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr Martin Bosma is eager to make his contribution to the budget. Mr Bosma speaks on behalf of the PVV. I call Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Prime Minister's time to be present in Parliament. The one who laughs the hardest is Mr Koolmees, I say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	I see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	Yeah, he's in the wings, but he's running fast. Mr. Chairman. Every performance of the king is perfectly organized. Everything has been taken care of. Nothing is left to chance and the king is always perfectly prepared. As Vice-President of this fine Chamber, which the King sometimes encounters at official events, I can testify to that. But at the youngest King's Day in Amersfoort, the climate extremists of Extinction Rebellion were showing off as guest of honor. Carefully staged they got a place of honor there. The king kept quiet and so they got maximum exposure; free airtime. It's not Extinction Rebellion about the climate. They're against capitalism, they're against democracy. They block because they think they are better than the democratic law. The law doesn't apply to these rich kids with their knots. Founder Rodger Helm says: if society acts so amorally, democracy becomes irrelevant, because the climate is more important than democracy. They say, "some may die in the process." These spoiled and cream-white bourgeois children leave a huge gang behind in their actions; they can clean up the police for them, because Stere and Mees never learned that at the gender-neutral childcare in the Gooi or Amsterdam Oud-Zuid. Why doesn't the king just keep this kind of people at bay? The government is there to protect us from extremists and the monarchy is a symbol of that. Not for nothing is the weapon spell Your maintiendrai. Traditionally, the Oranges are on the side of the people, against the regents. It would have been nice if the king had been sitting on a tractor today and had been heard on merry warriors.nl. The Orange versus the Regentenkleik: for centuries that has been the right to exist of the popularity of the House of Orange. Nowadays our regents are without exception left-wing liberal and their religion is climate religion. Mr. Chairman. Can the Prime Minister explain why our king is engaging with the anti-democratic people of Extinction Rebellion? The PVV is and remains in favour of the monarchy. The monarchy originates in William of Orange, of which our king descends through reasonable detours. King's Day is part of spring. We moved that day from April 30th to April 27th, but what if this king surrenders the stick to his daughter, who is birthday on December 7th? Then it's really cold. That's not gonna be fun with the pocketwalking, the free market, and so on. Let us therefore enjoy the pleasant union and celebrate King's Day in due course on the birthday of our Father of the Fatherland, William of Orange, April 24th. The man who sacrificed his possessions and life for the birth of the Netherlands is more than worth that tribute. Mr. Chairman. You always say: PVV stands for the Party for the Connection. Well, an Orange Day on April 24 unites Republicans. Because Willem van Oranje was finally the founder of the republic.. and the monarchists. So again a proposal full of connection from the PVV. Is the Prime Minister ready to poke for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Can we celebrate on May 13th, the day Johan van Oldenbarnevelt was decapitated? Is that perhaps a nice suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. We're not celebrating someone being beheaded, are we? I know the background of the SP in relation to the great cultural revolution, but we are not going to celebrate our national holiday in memory of one of the blackest days of Dutch history. Mr Van Raak will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Martin Bosma. I now give the floor to Mr Van 't Wout on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday evening, after watching the Dutch national team, I fell in the interview with Prince Constantijn on RTL4. I have to admit that this was also because my wife had taken over my remote control after the football game. It was a wonderful interview. I enjoyed that, really; through this way great compliments for that. I was thinking about it after that. What is it that we like to watch and watch the Dutch team and an interview with someone from the royal family, apart from the fact that it was a nice interview with that person. That is that it is two things that connect our society: football, especially if they are a bit successful lately, but also our royal house. Also as a liberal, I appreciate this kind of connection in society. It is very nice that we have thrown away the old social links that could have been compelling and restrictive from us in the last 30, 40 years. When my parents married, it was still a bit exciting that one was reformed and the other was reformed. Now it is completely natural that I am married as an atheist to someone who calls himself culturally Catholic and that one of my best friends is gay. That is all possible, and that is a great achievement of our country. I also like the fact that we still have these beautiful connecting things together and the royal family plays a major role in that. I think it's wonderful how Willem-Alexander and Máxima, in their way, are fulfilling the kingship at this time. I think compliments are also in place for the role of Princess Amalia who had a fantastic performance on the last King's Day. Go stand by it as a girl of that age at this time of social media in which she also occasionally gets what she needs. Mr. Chairman. That role of the royal family is important, not only at beautiful moments, at happy moments, but especially when we share grief with each other in the Netherlands. I have looked with great admiration at the King's speech at the United Nations on the MH17, particularly because I noticed that the relatives of the victims appreciated that speech very much. Mr. Chairman. I have never had any tendency to republican feelings and in recent years my appreciation of the royal family has only increased, if only because we also owe it to the royal family that the most beautiful episodes of LuckyTV are always filled with Willie. Mr. Chairman. Like everything else in today's society, the royal house is also under a magnifying glass. That is allowed, because where things don't add up, questions can be asked, such as the NRC did on the issue of furniture. I must honestly say that I had to read the cabinet letter on that a few times to understand exactly what was going on. I could imagine the Prime Minister's first reaction when he said something like "yes, I don't quite understand it, but it is true." When I look back, I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister whether that's true, in the end, it's about having a distinction between maintenance costs of the owner and maintenance costs of the user. It would help me if he could explain that distinction again. I haven't been able to get through it at home. Then without any relativization. This year and next year we celebrate 75 years of liberation from our country, a special milestone in our history. It seems, especially for people of my generation, sometimes so self-evident to grow up in a free society, but of course it is not. I think it's always very special. I think many people share that when you give a tour of the House of Representatives, to see the Chamber of Representatives. That's always one of the highlights anyway. It always gets quiet in every group when you refer to that empty shelf, which stands for the five years that we were not democracy. And it is right that it should be quiet for a while. Mr. Chairman. We commemorate the victims every year on 4 May and on 5 May we celebrate every year that we are liberated. But in the Netherlands we do not have official days off designated by law. Nevertheless, the VVD, together with D66, thinks it would be good if every year on 5 May as many people as possible would be free. This is a matter between employers and employees, but I have also heard from the cabinet a number of times that it wants to engage very actively in that discussion with the social partners in order to see how this can be done. Today I would like to strongly encourage the cabinet to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I'm gonna support that last one. In fact, I have made this proposal to make 5 May a day off in the Chamber very often. I am extremely pleased with the support of the VVD, but we have never had it so far. So I'm just curious what the reason is that the VVD is now supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	I do not know exactly which debates are being referred to. It's in our election program. I think 75 years of freedom is a very good opportunity to make this plea again, and I am pleased that Mr Van Raak supports it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would also like to support this proposal, but I still have a question, because it is a bit of a free gift if you only call on the social partners to ensure that 5 May is a day off. My appeal is: can we not ask the Prime Minister what other ways we have to ensure that it is also something that is feasible, attractive and accessible to employers? Because I share the basics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	I'd say so. I also have a motion in preparation. If you want to watch her do better, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	Could you perhaps explain a little about how you are going to give substance to this? Of course, I'd like to sign with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	The complicated thing is that, as I said, we do not have legally established days off in the Netherlands. I also think it is very complicated to go down that road. Because there will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	...are always exceptions, like police and small entrepreneurs, you name it. But Secretary of State Blokhuis recently indicated his intention to look at how more can be done than the call made at the time in response to the Remkes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	I urge the cabinet to do so. Look, such an appeal to the social partners becomes stronger if we as the Chamber are united behind it. I am also open to any suggestion that the fifth of May should be a day off for as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	Nice conclusion of your contribution, Mr. Van 't Wout. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. Traditionally, we discuss the royal family's finances in this budget. In order to properly discuss the state of these finances, it is important that we as a Chamber have a precise understanding of what exactly is being contributed by which ministry. Several budgets in a row have already been discussed with the Prime Minister. This year, too, it was not immediately clear to my group how much money is being spent on the royal family in total. In order to be able to conduct the debate properly, the information must be transparent and clear. All costs, including those relating to the function of the queen as a UN representative and to the use of the government aircraft, should be easily reflected in an overview. I would specifically ask the Prime Minister to include this in future, if necessary as an annex to the King's budget. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is also a kind of tradition that financial matters from the past come out regularly as an unpleasant surprise through the media. This year it was unclear about the purchase of furniture in the royal palaces. Are the furniture now of the family itself or of the Empire? And do they or do they not receive any compensation for maintenance? The day before yesterday we received an extensive letter from the Prime Minister about this. However, this letter does not answer all the questions. Was the Chamber fully informed at the time about the purchase of the royal furniture? And if so, where does that prove to be? Can it be guaranteed from now on that the furniture of the royal house and which furniture of the state are well kept? And what is the Prime Minister going to do to prevent us from getting a new surprise every year and getting back on the ground again? Mr. Chairman. Another concern of my group is the protection of national heritage. Early this year it came out that the late Princess Christina has sold art pieces abroad. It is very understandable that the Dutch museums were not happy with this. They would have liked to buy these paintings, often donated to the royal family in previous centuries. Recently, the Pechtold Commission issued an opinion on the protection of national heritage. GroenLinks would like to see national heritage now owned by the royal family no longer disappear abroad, but from now on always offered to Dutch museums. Does the Prime Minister share this view? Mr. Chairman. We face a major challenge to make the built environment more sustainable in order to contribute to achieving the climate objectives. The palaces available to the Royal House can serve as a good example. Last year I also explicitly drew attention to this. GroenLinks would like the cabinet to further promote the possibilities of sustainability. I am thinking, for example, of the possibilities of heat and cold storage at the Palace on Dam Square. From the municipality of Amsterdam I understood that they expect the best of these measures. I would like a commitment from the government to work on this together with the municipality. Mr. Chairman. As President of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister is responsible for the unity of government policy and for a good understanding between the government and the Chamber. Something goes wrong structurally. Regularly the media is informed about matters rather than the Chamber. Prior to Prince's Day, this always becomes most clear. We all know the examples of directors who, in interviews, bring out blocks of information that come out very well. But also during the rest of the year we regularly see news reports and only after that we see letters to the Chambers. You can't do that. In the written reply, the Prime Minister always refers to working arrangements between the Cabinet and the Registry of our Chamber, but apparently these agreements do not prevent us from being regularly informed later than the media. Isn't this supposed to be a thorn in the eye for the Prime Minister? How is the Prime Minister going to ensure that agreements are kept, that his colleagues in the cabinet really take the existing agreements seriously and that Parliament should not always draw attention to the fundamental constitutional right to information? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I see Mr Van der Molen has arrived. What timing! I call Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. I've always learned that the most important thing in politics is timing, so apparently I've come somewhere. Mr. Chairman. Imagine Mr. Van 't Wout of the VVD has just said that you are sitting in front of the TV on your evening off and are suddenly presented with a documentary about Prince Constantine and Princess Laurentien, or, a few days later, about the important work that the Queen does in the context of the United Nations. Then you can see once again that our Royal House is of course our Royal House, which we treat honorably, but also that it is a very open house. I have had a lot of positive reactions from many people about the fact that the Royal House and its members are openly talking about what they do in their daily lives for start-ups and for people who are financially in trouble, anywhere in the world. I wanted to express our appreciation as a CDA for this and, of course, in conjunction with it, to say that we hope that it will be for a long time to come. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to a royal award that many people, strangely enough, have never heard of. The Medal of Honor for Humanity is, after the Military Willems-Orde, the oldest remaining Dutch bravery award. This royal hero medal is reached out to "those who have performed a humane act that bears the characteristics of courage, policy and self-sacrifice." There is a bronze, silver and gold version. We know from the Military Willems-Orde that we are defending the Binnenhof for that and that we are honoring our soldiers who have put their own interests first, but the interests of their colleagues, with many ceremonial praises. On November 7th is the National Heroes Day. Many Dutch people do not know that we have such a national day for it. That combination of the Medal of Honor and the Heroes Day is in need of a form of rehabilitation, as far as the CDA is concerned. In a country where a lot of people think of themselves at first and not necessarily of their fellow man, such a signal and such a symbol are needed. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to make a commitment to ensure that this somewhat forgotten token of honour gets the attention that is needed. I also think that many more people would be nominated for this medal if many more Dutch people knew about the existence of that badge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Also to give Mr Van der Molen the opportunity to take a sip of water. Does he say between his nose and his lips that he has the impression that Dutch people think of themselves instead of their fellow human beings?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	No, I'm not saying that. I think we see far too many stories in the press of incidents involving people who do indeed show that behavior. This means that we have a distorted picture of how the Netherlands works and that we often think too pessimistic about our country. It is then a task for us to show the people who are par excellence that sometimes you can even risk your life to save others, to give a royal award. I'm very sorry that a lot of people don't know what exists. I also think it is very important that this is an award awarded by the King. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to ensure that the public awareness is increased and to reflect on how, on a central day, for example, on National Heroes Day, we could pass it on. I am not going over his agenda, but I would find it appropriate if, for example, the King himself could once hand out this badge. That is the guarantee of greater attention, so I ask the Prime Minister to commit himself to this. Mr. Chairman. In the previous General Reviews I mainly talked about 75 years of liberation. I called on the cabinet to invest more in that. In any case, since that debate, this cabinet announced in May this year that it would invest 15 million more. We now see in many places in the Netherlands the first expressions, and also full of them, that we pay sufficient attention to the fact that we have been liberated for 75 years. In that relationship it is also a good proposal of D66 and of the VVD to look at 5 May. That is a proposal that we, as CDA, wholeheartedly support. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the King's budget also provides insight into the costs incurred on other budgets in connection with kingship. Can the Prime Minister explain why the Ministry of Education has so far been missing from that list? We received a letter from the Minister on this subject following the publications in the NRC. We now know that the inventory of the palaces is state property and that their maintenance is paid for and managed through OCW. Can the Prime Minister explain why every few years we run into such an extra edition for the Royal House, while the Prime Minister does indicate that it can't be more transparent than we are doing at the moment? How is that possible? As far as we are concerned, the prime minister should not be confronted with press publications on these subjects. It is its duty, or perhaps in the future, to protect the Royal House, too, by proactively putting these things on the table and clarifying them through the King's budget. The fact that the inventory has been in the possession of the Empire for years seems to me to be a very relevant one for an overview of expenditure made by other ministries in favour of the Royal House. I would ask the Prime Minister to be as bold as possible on this point as this would also avoid the discussions on the Royal House. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	It was a cold night in January. It was raining, the haste. I descended with the Prime Minister in the basements of his ministry, in the catacomb of the Court Chapel. Through long corridors and narrow crawlspaces we stumbled upon centuries-old walls, but we didn't find him. We haven't found the remains of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. I always think two historians know more than one. It wasn't enough. We could have asked the king: three historians know more than two. But the Prime Minister has decided over the past year to have real experts do research. I can't wait to see what's going on. I saw all kinds of holes in the wall in the basements under the Senate. So I know there's been a look. Can the Prime Minister fill us in? How's it going? I'm not going to say much about the King's finances today, but I'm going to say nothing about decency. Because with Prince's Day, the king was back in his shirt because so many plans had been leaked for Prince's Day. It wasn't just a leak, it was a lie. 50 billion would be invested in our society. It would be an investment fund of 50 billion. That was told from the ministries. In the end it turned out to be zero euros with Prince's Day. There's no fund. Yeah, there's a plan to make a plan that needs to come up with a plan. But there's nothing. And it's not just the plan that's leaked. There was also a leak that there was an argument between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because who would have thought of the plan and who would have leaked it? I've rarely seen suspects present themselves so emphatically. Who was it: the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Economic Affairs? The Prime Minister can tell us here. And if he doesn't know, he can investigate. And if he doesn't investigate, he's co-responsible. We're not getting the plans for Prince's Day. So if I get a call from a journalist asking "Mr. Van Raak, what do you think of the 50 billion?', Then I have to say, I don't have the plans, I don't know, I can't control it and I have no idea. I cannot do my job as a Member of Parliament, but I understand that some Members of Parliament from some political groups, such as the VVD, the CDA, the Christian Union and D66, do have the plans. Even the Tax Plan, which we did not even get under embargo, seems to have been circulating here in the House of Representatives. I want to know from the Prime Minister who was aware of these plans. I would also like to know this because we, the House of Representatives, also have a role to play. If classified information is leaked, we can also have an investigation done. So I want to know which MPs were aware of these plans. If the Prime Minister does not want it, then at least we can carry out our own task by doing our own research. I've known this Prime Minister for quite some time. I was just thinking back yesterday when our first debates were. That must have been around 2004. I was a senator back then. He was a young secretary of state. He wanted to run the VVD. I said don't do that. He did it anyway, successfully. I always thought this Prime Minister was a prime minister of his time, of neoliberalism: the Netherlands as an e.g.; society is making money together; politics is managing; we arrange that. I always thought he was a man of his time, a man of neoliberalism, the idea that the market can govern society better than democracy. But the Prime Minister has also seen that neoliberalism was somewhat buried during the General Reviews. Politicians from the left to the right said that the time of neoliberalism, the idea that the market always knows better and not politics, is over. I even heard the new chairman of the CDA complain about individualism and neoliberal thinking. The leader of the Christian Union Group is constantly talking about 'raw capitalism'. The chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in D66 says that it might be a good idea to increase the burden on millionaires. This Prime Minister, too, has spoken firm words in his speech to his own congress. He said goodbye to one of the fundamental articles of faith of neoliberalism, namely that the contradictions are increasing in society, but that it is ultimately best for everyone. He even said: the money is plotting against the plinths in the companies, but ordinary people do not benefit from it. The Prime Minister has also fallen from his faith. Actually, I do have a question about that. How's that going? Can the Prime Minister indicate the moment he thought: yes, but what I am convinced of, which I have always believed in to the depths of my fibers, turns out to be wrong? When did he come to that thought? Or did that go very slowly? Is it true that the Prime Minister, as a child of his time, played a bit of a part in the fashion of the day, the ideological fashion of time? Then I ask the Prime Minister: is it not important that you, as a politician, are not just liberal, progressive in time, but that you also try to shape that time and that you also want to take responsibility for society? People I speak to and who are threatening to drop out and no longer want to vote are very interested in politics, but I often hear from them that politics is no longer interested in them. I would also like to make a statement to the Prime Minister. If that neoliberalism is then deadly, how does he intend to proceed? Shouldn't we start this ideological debate here? What are we going to do after neoliberalism? I would like to present to the Prime Minister a statement to which he may respond. That statement is very simple: all things that should not go bankrupt should not be on the market. I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to respond in his term. We can talk about what shouldn't go bankrupt. Market forces and profit sharing in healthcare: if you don't think hospitals should go bankrupt, then of course those things shouldn't. I heard the CDA talk about the importance of housing. We converted the housing corporations into real estate companies. If we don't want them to go bankrupt, should we have market forces? With the 2008 crisis, we saw that we had to keep large system banks in the air because the public interest was so great. If we do not want banks to go bankrupt or if certain tasks of banks turn out to be public, do they belong on the market? So I want to tell the Prime Minister this simple statement: if things can't go bankrupt anymore, will they be on the market? If the Prime Minister agrees with me, what does that mean? Does that also mean that we need to re-determine what "public" is? Do we have to re-determine what this Chamber and the Cabinet are responsible for? I would very much welcome that, because I am also convinced that if politics takes responsibility for society, people will regain some confidence in politics. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Next year we celebrate 75 years of freedom; 75 years ago the Second World War ended in Europe. Research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that, after the Dutch language, freedom for people contributes most to a sense of connectedness with the Netherlands. Moreover, the moments when we most consciously reflect on that freedom, in the top five of that investigation: death remembrance on May 4th and May 5th, Liberation Day, in place five. Fortunately, since 1945 generations have grown up in the Netherlands who personally have not experienced any freedom. Three quarters of a century is so long that freedom will seem almost self-evident, but we do not need to look so far around today's world to see how vulnerable and how unnatural that freedom is. The celebration of 75 years of freedom is therefore no reason to sit back satisfied, but it is a good opportunity to strengthen the focus on freedom and its celebration. The State Committee on Parliamentary System therefore recommended that 5 May be renamed Freedom Day, the national holiday for the democratic rule of law, and that that day should be a day off for everyone. Not long ago, Secretary of State Blokhuis therefore suggested to trade for the second Pentecost Day for 5 May as a free day. I understand that that has been my interpretation, but Mr Segers will clarify that. Personally, I understand the idea behind it. During all 364 days after January 1st, May 5th is the only non-Christian, non-monarchist national holiday and ideally a day for all Dutch. At the same time, that day is suddenly the day off for the least people. Against that background, I can understand the Blockhouse line. The current list of national holidays is historically very clear, but it is also questionable whether it will be sustainable for the future. But as Mr Van 't Wout said, the point is that the legislator is not about it. The social partners are about it and the cabinet has called on employers and employees to make 5 May a day off for as many people as possible. As far as I am concerned, that call might sound a little louder from the cabinet, but also from the Chamber. I therefore propose that we pronounce this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	This is, of course, just a lure. I would advise Mr Sneller to read the transcript of the interview with Secretary of State Blokhuis and then look at his own text again. I think there's some light in there. My question here is whether it should be at the expense of a Christian holiday in any case for the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	No, employers and employees must come together. That's how we took care of it. This is a call to ensure that 5 May is included. How that is handled, I think we should leave it to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	So I understand your call: it would be good if 5 May is a day off and we ask employers and employees to work together in good consultation. That's your plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	It would be very good if they did. In the motion that Mr Van 't Wout has prepared, we ask the cabinet to monitor it a little, so that we know how many there are now and whether there is an upward trend. Then perhaps we could consider making it a truly national day off, as Mr Van Raak proposed a year or so ago. That is not the system that we have now, but if this call does not work at all, then I think we will be back here in a few years' time and then we will be able to look at it in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	Then we'll talk. Let me make this clear: I do not speak on behalf of the Secretary of State, but I know him well enough to know that he agrees with me that it is not wise to let this happen at the expense of a Christian holiday. If we are looking for anchor points and for moments we have together, a connection with our Christian culture is also an important one and we are celebrating them with those Christian holidays. In any case, I would have liked to have said this after the slightly provocative remarks made by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	Perhaps I should have put it this way: personally I would have understood the thoughts behind it very well. But I understand that Mr Segers sees that differently from his background. Mr. Chairman. I come to the ribbon policy, but a different matter from Mr Van der Molen's. The Sultan of Brunei was awarded the Knight Grand Cross in the Order of the Dutch Lion by Queen Beatrix in 2013. For the non-connoisseurs, like myself: that is about the highest distinction we know. It is intended for special merits of a very exceptional nature for society or purely individual genius. Again, these are not my words, but the words of the Chancery of the Dutch Orden. When that same sultan who received this award introduced the death penalty for homosexuality earlier this year, D66, and other parties with us, asked him to take away this exceptional award. Unfortunately, Minister Blok was not willing or able to do so. He did announce an evaluation of the royal decoration policy. My question to the Prime Minister is how it stands. I am convinced that this once-given policy of the 1815 law is urgently needed to modernise. Mr. Chairman. How different is it for people who are appointed members of the Order of Orange Nassau. These people who have been volunteering for a long time and thus make a special contribution to our society will only receive the award on loan. After the death of the decorated person, the award must be returned, unless the next of kin pays a deposit. It may be typical Dutch to deal with that in this way, but it doesn't sound very generous. My proposal to the Prime Minister is that we turn it around. Awards in the possession of not so purely genius foreign heads of state we move in and decorations of honorable Dutch people remain after death in the family as a beautiful memento. I'd like to hear his reaction. Mr. Chairman. Between 1982 and 2009, the government bought all the inventories of four palaces of the royal family for an amount that would now be about 17 million euros. My first question to the Prime Minister is when and how the Chamber was informed about this. I asked the Prime Minister that question about a month ago during Question Time. In the letter he promised then, which we finally received on Monday night, I could not find the answer. That is why I repeat the question here. The Prime Minister did write in that letter about the valuation of the value of that purchase by the State. At that time, it would have been based on the best insights and the most accurate historical analyses of the origin, and thus the ownership of the furniture in those palaces. But on the basis of his research, the NRC stated the opposite, namely that the purchase was made as if everything belonged to the royal family. That would be evident from the archives, and that is what the relevant valuer says. So my question to the Prime Minister is quite logical: what exactly is the situation? In addition, NRC study "R' was referred to earlier by Ms Özütok "Since then, the State has paid double for the maintenance of the inventory. The State is responsible for maintenance through the National Real Estate Company and the Royal House Service, but the Royal House also receives a fee through Article 1b to keep the inventories in order. In that same letter from Monday evening, the Prime Minister writes that you should consider the 1b-pay, so I shall briefly refer to her as a lump sum and that the maintenance costs of the inventory are not included. Logical in itself, but that official document from 2015 says so. That's what got into that by mistake. My question to the Prime Minister is: why by mistake? Well, that's very wrong then, isn't it? How did it get there? And does this happen all the time? Can the Prime Minister explain this further? Mr. Chairman. With that same question, how was the Chamber informed? I will go on to the next point, namely the State's costs to the UN Secretary-General's Special Advocate for Inclusive Financing for Development, our Queen Máxima. In 2014, the Prime Minister said the following in this house during the handling of the King's budget. I quote him a little more extensively, Mr President, but precisely when informing the Chamber about the financing of the Royal House and its costs, I think it is very difficult and I would like to illustrate why I am making this point. The Prime Minister said as follows. "The King's budget has been redesigned with three chapters, with a total of about 40 million in expenditure. In fact, everything is covered, with the exception of a few precisely defined points. What is not included is the maintenance of the palaces. What is not automatically included are the foreign state visits. For this purpose, an amount is foreseen in the Foreign Affairs budget. What is also outside is issues related to possible fees for and subsidies to the crown domains." They've also been extensively discussed here. "But everything else is covered by the King's budget, which is before us here. All the money's in there. I therefore believe that transparency is well provided for." But, Mr President, you are already guessing: the Prime Minister confirmed on Monday, in response to my questions, and rather to the NIS, that not all the amounts are in it. Because every year the Development Cooperation budget pays €150,000 for staff costs, travel expenses and accommodation costs for the Queen as a special advocate. That's about EUR 1.2 million over the last ten years. The Prime Minister himself writes that in 2014 he might have given the wrong impression in his statements. I have two questions about that. One is about the past. How could this have happened? He knows how important this transparency is for confidence. He agrees with that, too. He knows how the Chamber attaches to this. He's been through that here, more than he's loved, I think, and discussed it with the Chamber. He also knows how sensitive this is in society. So my question is: when did he first hear of these costs and why has he never decided to inform the Chamber of its own motion over the last nine years? Or did I miss that information? Secondly, how do we deal with this in the future? Because the Netherlands is not about the agenda and the missions of the special advocate. And if I am well informed, then all the other special advocates of the UN Secretary-General will be reimbursed these costs from the UN and not from their own country. And then my question is: wouldn't it make more sense to join that system? Mr. Chairman. The last block: the designated survivor. This year, the cabinet for the first time withheld someone during the throne speech to guard the continuity of democratic government in an extreme emergency. I would like to sincerely thank the Prime Minister for the serious manner in which he has dealt with this idea. I ask him to reflect on its implementation here. I think the unpredictability of the designated person and his location was an important part of the power of the system. I'm not sure if that worked out. For Parliament, a working party commissioned by the Bureau has made a number of recommendations. They've also been made public. Thank you for that. I hear the Prime Minister saying they don't do anything. Don't call it a thing, Prime Minister. What the Council of State did or intends to do remains a mystery, while Article 38 of the Constitution assigns an important role to the Council of State in the exercise of the Royal Authority in very extreme situations. Last year, the Prime Minister agreed to enter into consultation with the Council of State. That is why this year my question: what was the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. Our democracy has a number of important pillars: equality, our rule of law and transparency. I would like to discuss these issues with the Prime Minister if he has time. I hear it's true. Fine. Mr. Chairman. Let's start with equality. Equality is about equal opportunities, about no disproportionate differences, about equal opportunities in income, power or status. Which brings me straight to the first question to the Prime Minister. Does he think that, in his role as leader of this country, he has mastered these three principles of equality, in terms of power, income and status? Can I put a second question to it? What does this mean for the negotiations he's going to have with the teachers today? These are about lower workload and better salaries. In particular, it is important to ensure that all children have a teacher for the classroom. He didn't mention it as a priority in an interview. If creating equal opportunities for children is not a top priority, then what is? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. My second point is the rule of law. It is my impression that the rule of law is under pressure in our country. The social lawyer will leave her work in the first two weeks of January, because she can no longer do her job properly. That doesn't make justice for everyone anymore. If you're not careful, it's gonna be about the law of the strongest. Whistleblowers are being prosecuted. Ministers are prosecuting these whistleblowers. There is an appearance of conflict of interest in important political debates. The Prime Minister has a role in this too. I want to know from him how he looks at the importance of the rule of law and its role in it. How do we prevent each time the feeling of cover-up, shuffling and looking away? Shouldn't all the ministers and all the secretaries of state do their utmost to ensure that whistleblowers are given a status, that they are honored and that they really are seen as the heroes that are needed, rather than being intimidated, thrown away, sent away and even prosecuted? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The last pillar I want to name is transparency. As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister has an important role to play in this too. We see that it takes us as a Chamber incredibly much effort to get information on the table. We see that journalists take a great deal of trouble to get information out of the table. If it does, it often goes through WOB requests. And if information comes up, we can see that it's taken a lot of hits to get that information up there. Also now there are WOB requests around the Polman texts and about court cases that are being conducted. There are also WOB requests because there is insufficient transparency about the fees to the Royal House. Let me ask a few specific questions about the latter. How can it be that it takes us years to get enough transparency about the fees for the Royal House and that even the Prime Minister must say: it is very complex, I do not know yet, I will come back to it? Why is this not an automatic fact and why are not all the expenditures made for the Royal House in one clear table? If you report it to the Tax Administration, it is also indicated that you have to give everything properly, up to the dimes and quarters. Why is that so complicated when it comes to the Royal House? I really don't remember a debate when it comes to the Royal House that we haven't had any fuss about funding. Now it's about inventory and reimbursement systems again, but looking back, I'm looking at Mr Van Raak because he's the longest with this one. I think we've had an incident here every year about the costs and the fees for the Royal House. There's no other way? I would like to ask the Prime Minister: can he guarantee us that this is the last year that we have a fuss about the transparency and costs of the Royal House? Mr President, I have to go to a conclusion. Then I'm gonna talk about women's representation. Women are still underrepresented in advisory councils. AZ is still under-represented when it comes to reaching the quota of women at the top. I gave the Prime Minister last year the book of Julia Wouters, entitled "The Side of Power." I assume the Prime Minister read it. I'd like to know what he did with it in concrete terms. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Maybe you can talk to him later. Mr Segers has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	On the subject of transparency. I agree with Mr Kuik that transparency is a very good thing and that it is important that governments are as transparent as possible and as many parts of what is happening internally as possible. But there are parts of the discussion that you cannot be transparent about, right? Surely you can only come to a good decision-making process if there is also a back room where you can put everything on the table, also your questions and your doubts, and in which you can have things investigated? Does the colleague of the PvdA Group agree with me that there are also limits to transparency, especially in view of good decision-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	I am sure there are, but at the moment when there are very big interests, contradictions or influences of interests, I think that the importance of transparency outweighs the fact that you can keep things to yourself in backrooms. Surely it cannot be that we often use the cheese bowl to bring information up every time, that it takes so much effort and that we often need journalists to get something over the table because we as parliamentarians are not doing very well, while I think our first task is to check the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	Sure, I agree with colleague Kuiks. For example, we've had an entire affair around a receipt from Justice and Security. That was an endless question until it turned out to be there. Then you would much rather that everything is indeed given and there is openness given and that we learn from it and we can continue instead of endless digging. But my question is the other way. Is there a limit to transparency somewhere? Let me give you a very concrete example. When negotiating a new coalition agreement, you should also be able to put policy options on the table that you have mixed feelings about yourself, where it is clear that you are considering it, they can already be very sensitive in themselves. Next time, appoint the PvdA Group, and the abolition of the dividend tax is on the table and it is proposed that this should be passed on. Then that's already very sensitive in itself. Then it is in the interests of good decision-making not to drive everything out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	I do not think that many things come on the table during a negotiation process is news. I don't think there's much secret in that either. I do not think that the most exciting thing is that you pass on certain policy aspects. My point is that I want to protect officials up to the highest level from arbitrariness in it. If they have any thoughts in their advice to the Prime Minister or others, it is important that they are protected as much as possible. It is something else if the rule of law is at stake or if there are conflicting interests where externals have quite a large influence on those interests. Then I'll make a different assessment. So I'm not so much concerned that you can't be transparent about what you've been talking about, because what doesn't end up on the table, there's no blame either. I would just like to avoid any unnecessary damage to civil servants, and that is where I look for a much greater balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	Madam President. 75 years of freedom is also the time for me to start thinking. We're gonna do that extensively next year, 75 years of freedom. Freedom is an expensive possession. It's something that's never taken for granted. We're gonna celebrate. The time to celebrate is May 5th. Colleagues say: 'Well, at least let us call on employers to look at it when collective agreements are concluded, to make a day off in good consultation between employers and employees on 5 May. Let's encourage that. Let's make that call." I support that call. My own proposal, my own thought that I want to share here, relates to Prince's Day. That's one of those times when we celebrate democracy. It is the culmination of the democratic year, of the parliamentary year. That's gonna be different if we get out of here. During the renovation we are five or six years away from the Binnenhof. My question is as follows, and I ask the Prime Minister to reflect on that. In all these other years, we are asking the country to come here, or at least we are offering people the opportunity to come here, to celebrate the opening of the parliamentary year with us. In this special period of five or six years, we cannot go here. Wouldn't it be nice to make a reverse move? Wouldn't it be a very nice option to celebrate Prince's Day in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	I think it's a creative thought, and I always appreciate it. It also ties in with the thought of going into the country, away from the cheese tolp in The Hague. Then it would be as it happens on King's Day: in all kinds of different places. That's very much appreciated, too. So in itself I do feel sympathy for this, but on second thought it does a bit for me. For in this way are we not mortified by a tradition that fits with a constitutional starting point, namely that the King pronounces the throne speech, the government policy, in the city where the government also sits? Isn't it a shame to let go of that tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	There is nothing in the Constitution that prevents that. For example, we also have a United Assembly in Amsterdam at the coronation. So we also have a United Assembly outside The Hague. That is a very special moment, which takes place only a few times, namely in the exchange of power. In any case, this will be a special period. Either way, this is going to be an exception. Because we're not in the Knight's Room. The King will not speak the Throne in the Knight's Room. So whether it's in the Grote Kerk or in a theatre or anywhere in The Hague, it's going to be a different place. So it's gonna be different anyway. And to turn the need into a virtue, I think this is too interesting an option not to investigate. I'm not saying it has to be and it will be. But let's see if it's possible. I think it can have great significance for regions that feel that The Hague is not always there for them or that they feel that The Hague is very far away. Sometimes, physically, that's true, but also mentally. People sometimes think that politicians do not always have our interests in mind. I think it might have a very positive impact to do Princess Day in the region, where quite different classes have the opportunity to stand along the route and see very different people. So my very cautious plea is: let's look at it minimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thinking about it is always good, and that starts with the debate about it. But suppose it would be said: we actually like it well in different places, so let's continue with it. What would Mr Segers say after a few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	That's some kind of fear vision. I don't think that's wise. So my proposal is really like this. Either way, we're somewhere else. Do an investigation to see if that "everyone", during the exceptional period that we are not at the Binnenhof, could be a little further away from The Hague. I think that if we return to the Binnenhof and open the Knight's Room again, we should really return to that good tradition of the throne speech that is pronounced in the Knight's Room. That would be my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	That brings me to an idea, but in my own time I can also ask the Prime Minister: is it really necessary to leave that Knight's Room? 'Cause look what you're getting from it: right, you're getting all this "doesn't it have to be this or that?" And that could put such a tradition back into question. But let me ask you a practical question. Mr Segers is right to say that constitutionally nothing stands in the way of the letter of the Constitution. You may wonder whether it is so logical that it is very precisely arranged that the inauguration should take place in Amsterdam and not the speech of the throne. Perhaps the Hague should have been mentioned, but that aside. So he's right: it's not there. Does that mean that the next meeting of the House of Representatives must take place in the same place? Because we also always have the offer of the Millions note, with the handover of the briefcase. Does that happen at the Grote Markt in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yeah, I need to think about that, too, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	See what comes of it. Looks like a scare, but see what might come of it. The people of Leeuwarden, Groningen, Den Bosch, Maastricht, Middelburg would experience a very special, unique moment, namely that the Golden Coach will be there and that the Throne speech will take place in turn. For me, that's not a scare, it's something very nice to consider. Then there will be all kinds of practical questions such as Mr Van der Staaij's: what about the offer of the briefcase? That could happen the next day. We will look again at the Constitution to see if there are any constitutional objections. I think it's a nice option. Again, I am not saying "it must and will," but it is an option that we should at least examine, especially now that the Secretary of State has written that it might take another year before we leave here. So we have extra time to examine this option very quietly and to discuss it again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	Compliments for creativity anyway. It's good to keep thinking about these things. My question is not practical, but very basic: does Mr Segers think that Parliament is talking about where it meets?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	It is a United Assembly, so it is primarily up to the President of the United Assembly and that is the President of the First Chamber. If a majority here were to say 'let's at least look into it' I would find that very nice and sympathetic, and I think the route would be to ask the Presidium to pass the request on to the President of the United Assembly. Then that option will have to be weighed there. Sooner or later we'll get mail back with the message that it could or couldn't be. In the end, however, it is up to the United Assembly and primarily the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	So we are going to listen with great interest to the Prime Minister's reflection, but that is more as an advisor to the Chamber, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	Yes, it concerns us more than the Prime Minister, but the case is that he wants to be there and has an important role to play. I am very curious about his reflection on this suggestion. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has already guessed: I have one cup today, namely the Crown Domain. Today we are debating the King's budget and with it also about Crown Domain Het Loo, an area of 7,600 hectares on the Veluwe. It is a nature reserve with all kinds of different types of landscapes, including heathlands, forests and grasslands. It is a nature reserve with many native plant and animal species, including very rare. It is a beautiful area to walk, photograph and be one with nature. You will notice: I shall cast a separate vote. Fortunately we can also walk there, but that can only be eight and a half months a year. The other months, from mid-September to Christmas, there are shootings. Those months, Crown Domain Het Loo is a hunting ground. So today we are not crying, "Hooray, hooray, hooray!', But "Why, why, why?" Because in the spring of 2018, the Chamber adopted a motion from the Party for Animals to open Crown Domain Het Loo to the public all year round. But the Minister of LNV refused to carry out that motion, because the king would be responsible for it. In the final budget debate, the Prime Minister agreed with the view of the Minister of LNV and said, I quote: he, the King, can decide what to do with it within the laws and regulations. The Prime Minister also said, and I quote again, the full use and management of the Crown Domain belonging to the Crown Carrier's private property. The Prime Minister said: what happens to the Crown Domain is up to the King; that is not a subject for the House of Representatives. We had that debate on 10 October last year. But then something happened that brought the Prime Minister's statement to light in a different light, because two weeks after that budget debate it was now October 24th, the king was asked by journalists to respond to the debate in the House of Representatives on the opening up of the Crown Domain. The king did not want to comment on the substance and replied: that discussion belongs to the Chamber. "That discussion belongs to the Chamber." So the prime minister points to the king as a private person, but the king himself refers the discussion back to the Chamber. The King disagrees with the Prime Minister. The fact that the discussion is referred back to the Chamber means that it is not about the king as a private person, because that is not what the Chamber is talking about, but about the king as a head of state. The Chamber has long ruled on this issue. I mentioned the motion passed to open Kroondomain Het Loo to the public all year round. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Prime Minister: how is it possible that the cabinet and the king speak with two mouths here? Does he agree with the King that the discussion belongs to the Chamber and, if so, what consequences does he have? Because the argument that this would be a private matter of the king no longer stands. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this cabinet is now no longer in the way of simply carrying out the adopted motion for an annual round opening of the Crown Domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr Wassenberg, Mr Sneller has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	Last year we had just gotten together so nicely to ensure that the next grant, if the king as a fruit user, as a private person, would make another grant application, which would first come back to the Chamber. That's what the Prime Minister promised. So I think Mr Wassenberg is now looking for nails on low tide here, while for the next time we have settled exactly what it was both of us to do. And I'm a little sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	Not quite, because it has all become a bit more complex now, because the Prime Minister has also written that part of it is open to the public and some of it is not. There would be no subsidy for that. The King says this is a discussion that actually belongs to the Chamber. In this way, the king states: this is not about me as a private person, I said: we are not talking about this, we are talking about me as a head of state. That is why I want to know once again why this is not part of the Chamber and why this motion is not simply carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	No, this is part of the room. As a private person, the king is absolutely right about that, because we, as a Chamber, are ultimately talking about that subsidy, which comes from LNV. And so as a private person, he quite rightly refers back to the Chamber. I don't see any light in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	Is that a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	That is Mr Sneller's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	I can make a question of it if Mr Wassenberg himself does not have an answer to it. Where exactly does Mr Wassenberg see that light?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	We do indeed have this motion to make the subsidy simply conditional on the opening up of the market. But this is something else. This is about the fact that the king says: this whole discussion belongs to the Chamber. We have also adopted this motion, which I believe was adopted on 3 April 2018, i.e. one and a half years ago, in which the Chamber says: just open it up completely anyway. It is true that the motion came later to make the subsidy dependent on it. That's from 2021, so it starts in 2022. But this is another discussion. This is the discussion about the King's ruling that this belongs to the Chamber. And the Chamber also adopted that other motion. We have two adopted motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	That's right. That is what we voted for. Only the subsidy in which those conditions were laid down had already been granted. In my view, Mr Wassenberg agreed with us that you cannot break the grant that has already been granted and the conditions that go with it by means of a motion and that we will then be able to settle it properly the next time we arrive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	Sure, I agree. At first we also said that we should open it up. After all, if you do not meet the conditions now, it must be opened immediately. Then the Prime Minister indicated: but it is about the opening-up subsidy: this can only be done on the next round. That is why we have changed that motion. In so doing, we make the opening subsidy subject to the opening of the market from 2022 onwards. But this discussion is not about the opening subsidy but about the previously adopted motion from 2018 in which the Chamber says: open the area all year round.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	Madam President. We are discussing two budgets: the King's budget and the General Affairs budget. That always goes at high speed. As far as the King is concerned, I hope we don't have to talk much about the finances. Indeed, there has always been something to discuss for years. Fortunately, there has been increasing transparency and clarity so that even the Republican tendencies to look for nails on low water are less and less well served. I congratulate the Cabinet for that, because that's the way it should be. I would also like to encourage the Cabinet to do everything that can be done to prevent issues from re-emerging. The second point concerns secondary activities. Thank you, too, for the letter which sets out just as well the ministerial responsibility for this, also in connection with the meeting between Queen Máxima and the Saudi Crown Prince, which had to be repeated at the time. We also discussed this at the Foreign Affairs human rights meeting, so we fully agree with that letter. I think it is a point that, of course, great caution is needed in this kind of concrete situation. The fact that there was such a report about that murder when the meeting with that Saudi Crown Prince was an unfortunate coincidence. So I'd like to encourage all the cleverness and diplomacy to be used to prevent that kind of annoying situations. Then there is the General Affairs budget. That is what has been said: what is being discussed? In the 1987 General Affairs Remembrance Book, I read that Professor De Gaay Fortman says that the budget is dealing with matters which are difficult to deal with in other budgets and which may not be important enough to deal with in the General Reviews. That's a clear indication. Indeed, it always makes some special creative proposals, which we can then think about together and which sometimes come back. May 5th is a good point. I also support this appeal, but indeed my group believes that it should not be at the expense of the existing holidays we have, but should be more complementary to the existing tradition. One point that Mr Segers has already raised is why Princess Day cannot actually be in another place. I have already indicated in an interrupting debate that I appreciate the creativity, but I do feel that this presentation of government policy should actually be in the city of government. So we do have trouble leaving The Hague for this ceremony, apart from practical objections. It did raise the question why we can't just stay in that renovated Knight's Room not so long ago. If there is still room for that, I would like to use it. Finally, while we are still talking about the renovation and everything that comes with it, I also appeal to the Prime Minister as a resident of The Hague and as a historian. Would he also like to strengthen the plea that during the renovation, if ever to take place, and that is certain to happen, the access for tourists remains a bit guaranteed, so that not the entire government centre and the seat of the parliament is locked, but that there is also something to see for tourists? Does he support that plea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I'm gonna try to answer them quickly but also carefully. I'll start with May 5th. I agree with everyone who says: it would be good if that would be a day off. This is indeed regulated by collective agreements and is therefore the responsibility of the social partners. Part of that is, of course, the government, through the government collective agreement, but we must not just look at ourselves here today. It is also a matter of national importance. An appeal has already been made to the social partners to make it an annual day off for everyone in the Netherlands. Let me promise... Mr Koolmees remarked this morning that I was late. In return, I will announce here that he is going to go into further consultation with the social partners to see what we can do to actually fight this for each other. This is an effort and not an obligation to achieve results, because in the end this is up to the social partners. Whoever was the designated survivor from the cabinet, I cannot say anything for reasons of state security. I have noticed that the Court has come to the conclusion that there is no need to do anything about it. I brought it to the attention of the Council of State. It is now up to the Council of State to decide what to do with it, but I can imagine that the Council of State, if the Chamber does not do anything about it, is no longer interested. The one about the designated survivor. In any case, as a cabinet, we will continue to carry out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	I'm being provoked from "K" class, Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Prime Minister has read the whole report, that we are going to change a number of things in the context of the Van der Staaij working group. But unlike the one-headed authority that is the royal authority, and the cabinet that always speaks with one mouth always with one mouth..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	It is precisely with the Chamber that I would think that pluralism is a risk, because the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith will turn out to be very one-sided in the event of such a terrible event. Then only those parties would be in it, against the monarchy's will. With that you have a very one-sided committee for the investigation of the letters of faith. So the question is whether that is desirable, but that is up to the Chamber. Then you arrive at Queen Máxima and her role as UNSGSA. That is a side function and it is not related to the functional expenses of the kingship. That is why this expenditure is not accounted for by me, because it happens in the foreign affairs budget. Moreover, it may also happen in other budgets that members of the Royal House do certain things, for which target expenditure is included in those budgets. That's not up to me. That could be on all kinds of budgets. That is why this answer to Van der Molen to the OCW budget. There are no expenditures on the Royal House, nor should it be on the OCW budget in the sense of kingship. That doesn't rule out OCW spending, doing target spending, because they hire members of the Royal House for chores, for example. But that's not up to me, that's further to those departmental budgets. Why don't we report it to the UN? That is because she, as the wife of the head of state, always travels in the capacity of the head of state's wife. That is why we do not want to be dependent on the UN rules on travel. That is why we are financing this ourselves. Of course, that has everything to do with safety. In summary, we have a budget that we are discussing here today, that is the budget including the combatable annex. Those are all the things that have to do with the cost of kingship. That's completely complete. But beyond that there may be other expenditure in departments, target expenditure, because members of the Royal House are deployed on certain assignments, because that is what is considered appropriate. But that is not an expenditure in the framework of kingship, which is then target expenditure of those departments. One example is the UNSGSA role of Queen Maxima. Another example is, of course, the Crown Domain; its costs are also excluded from the Compatible Annex, because that is also one of those purposes which is not related to kingship.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	I do not know if I would qualify the special advocacy as an assignment for which the queen is hired, but the Prime Minister herself says: because, if she is to travel, she always travels as the wife of the head of state, which is why we make those extra costs. Then that's the cost of the kingship, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	No. These costs arise from her role as a special advocate of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. In addition, of course, there is always a consideration, also for security reasons, whether you want the UN rules to be guiding the type of transport or not. That's completely unrelated to the UNSGA role or the kingship. That has to do with the security of this person and all aspects related to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	Who wouldn't be there if this person weren't also the queen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	That doesn't make it an issue in the framework of kingship. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	Then the payments for the furniture. The documents for the evaluation of the budget were drawn up on the basis of the old Chambers of Parliament from 1972. In the letter I wrote that this was by mistake mentioned in the 2015 official note. Why was the House of Representatives not informed about the purchase of the furniture for the palaces? In the preparation of the letter I sent, no considerations were found not to inform the Chamber at the time. Purchases were made in the 1980s. It was said in my mind that this was in 1982 and 1989, but also in 2009. The answer to the question can therefore only be speculative in nature. It may be that considerations of privacy have played a role in the purchase. That does not alter the fact that, if you look at it afterwards, the fact of the purchases as such could well have been reported to the Chamber. There would have been nothing against that, without going into more detail on amounts or other data that affect privacy. Again, I cannot reconstruct these considerations now and I cannot judge them either. I would like to point out that in the letter sent on Monday, also on behalf of the Minister of OCW, I informed the Chamber in a general sense about the purchases from the estate of Princess Juliana, taking into account the protection of the privacy of the persons involved. In the same context, I can say that we now know what the state is. That's round. That list's here now, and we're gonna keep track of it. The supervision of the furniture is one of the statutory tasks of the Public Sector Information and Heritage Inspectorate. That was also explained in the letter. Furthermore, I can report that the report of the Pechtold Commission has been submitted to the Council of Culture which advises the Minister of OCW. That puts some kind of sidelight on this file, you might say. The Minister will come before the turn of the year with a cabinet response to that report. On the basis of the valuationrs' reports, purchases were made at the time on the basis of the knowledge and insights available at that time. They still apply now. Of course, it's always complicated to trace all that back exactly. Of course, this has always been done on the basis of the knowledge available at that time. That was especially in the 1980s. Finally, the complex problem of owner and user. Apparently, that is something we do at the High Colleges of State, including the House of Representatives. If there are nice things hanging here that are not of the Chamber itself, then the Chamber ensures that there is no dust and that broken lights are replaced and all that sort of thing. If there really is to be more fundamental maintenance of beautiful items, then that is done from the budget of BZK. Then it's about the government real estate company. I don't know if the example is right, but let's say it's a really big chandelier. The concern that he keeps burning, remains clean and looks nice is paid out of Article 2 of the King's budget, so from the Royal House Service. But if the chandelier needs to be restored, it will be financed from the budget of the National Real Estate Company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	A brief question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	Did the purchase of the furniture assume that the royal family owned everything when the state bought it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	No, I didn't assume that. That was the document referred to in the NRC article. It has to do with a discussion in the courthouse around 1970. It was said at that time that this was rejected as a basis for the intention to purchase furniture. It hasn't seen the light of day. It's a 1969 piece when I'm informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	So at that time, the State was only paid for things that were indeed traceable private property of the family?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	Well, we're not sure, I'll write in the letter. It is quite conceivable that there was also paid for items that were already from the State. That's what the letter says. You can't rule that out, and I explained it in the letter. You can't reconstruct that. But the document you're referring to would give the impression that everything was already state. That document was no longer used as a basis for the discussion about the purchase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	Finally, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	This document suggests that we assumed at the time that everything belonged to the family and that the purchase price was determined on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	Again, that document was rejected as a basis. It's a 1969 document. I was two then; I remember that sharp. That was then rejected as the basis for the consultation. Yes. What a fuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	I wasn't there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	You weren't there at all. The good news is that we now know which documents are from the state and which are not. We're keeping those lists now, too, and we're doing inspections on them. I sincerely believe that the Oranges are not to blame here. They didn't think: hi, hi. But it's just been awfully complicated to reconstruct it all exactly. At least we know what's going on now and from now on we can keep up. Then there's the painful issue of the leaks around Princess Day. I have, of course, responded several times to this in response to written questions from Mr Van Raak. I understand his annoyance very well. I don't know who's leaking which pieces. I have repeatedly argued that the circles within which these pieces are distributed are, of course, so wide that it is almost impossible to check all of this. I also drew attention to this in the context of the Council of Ministers. Furthermore, it is of course the case that when these documents are drawn up, consultation also takes place in the coalition. Every coalition does. But then again that is part of the discussion that you have in a cabinet to come up with a budget with coalition parties as well. However, this should not lead to external leakages, especially as they are always intermediate steps. The cabinet finally decides what happens to final decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	The Chamber is not informed about the plans for Prince's Day, but plans in embryonic form or whatever form are shared with individual members of this Chamber. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	Well, no. There is no rule that says: we have a plan in embryonic form and we are now actively sharing it with individual members of the Chamber. It's not like that. But there is a coalition based on a coalition agreement. And there are, of course, new developments that are reflected in a budget. Then, of course, there is political consultation within a coalition, and possibly also with members of the Chamber, to see if the government's plans can still count on the support of those coalition parties, which own that coalition agreement. This type of consultation is therefore inevitable when it comes to drawing up a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	I know there are pieces shared, too. I hope that the Prime Minister will not deny that, because then we will have another problem of another order. But if plans for Prinsjesdag, in whatever form, are also shared with individual MPs, but not with the Chamber, then I think this is also a task for the Lower House. I find it extremely painful that the Prime Minister is standing here every year and saying: yes, I am also very sorry that leaks are being made. That's what he says, but he's not willing to do an investigation. But if it turns out that it may also have been members of the House of Representatives who leaked, then I think there is a task for the House of Representatives, because we always want to do research when things are leaked from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	I don't think so. It is inevitable that, in a coalition in the run-up to very fundamental documents related to the Millions' Note and Budgets, consultations will take place with coalition parties, and therefore also with representatives of those coalition parties in the Second Chamber. In that consultation it is considered whether these representatives also share the view that plans in preparation are still in line with the coalition parties' coalition agreement, the coalition groups of which are once again the owners. That's inevitable. If you can't have that meeting, it's gonna be really exciting on Prince's Day. That's nice for the opposition, but that doesn't make the country's governance any better either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	You know what's not fun for the opposition, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	That the government is taking a control-free vacation. Those deliberate pieces from the ministries, and perhaps from the Chamber, are leaked, that lies are being told about a fund of 50 billion, after which Mr. Van Raak is called from the opposition to ask what he thinks. I don't have that stuff, I can't have an opinion on it. Then it turns out that it is a lie to each other, the voters are fooled and the king is in his shirt. The way the Prime Minister talks about this is shocking: yes, I cannot help it either. And the fact that he doesn't want to do an investigation shows that he's co-responsible. I've made a proposal in the past before. The Prime Minister says it's not officials leaking, it's politicians leaking. It has also been leaked that it was either the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Economic Affairs. The Prime Minister can start an investigation into that. Suspects have presented themselves. And if it is clear that in the coalition too people have had pieces, in whatever form, then there is also a task for this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	I don't think so. Responding to three layers. Firstly, when drawing up budgets and, for example, the Millions Note, it is inevitable that there is consultation between members of the Cabinet and members of this House of Representatives, simply because it is those parliamentary groups that own the coalition agreement. There's no other way. The second answer is, and there I understand Van Raak for 1000%: it is unacceptable when then, because there is inevitably knowledge among MPs of plans that are in the pipeline and that can come out in any form, is leaked about it. The country is leaking in 99.99% of cases by politicians and not by civil servants. The Ship of State is leaking at the top, as we know. Three: the specific case that Mr Van Raak is discussing here, we have had a lot of cuts in the General Reviews, so I leave that out of the question. But I very much agree with him on that second point: the first cannot be a reason for Members of Parliament to then go to the media with that knowledge. That would be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	Then about celebrating Prince's Day somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	Yes, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	This is, of course, a matter which lies first and foremost with the President of the United Assembly. I can easily imagine that the President of the House of Representatives would agree with that. So I'm not strictly speaking about that. It is of course interesting to investigate this and to see what the advantages and disadvantages are. The benefits can be thought of well, but also disadvantages can be identified: logistics and financial, but I can also imagine that my city of The Hague, where I have lived all my life, has ideas about that too. I saw that in the paper this morning. Also the acting mayor, I understood, known for all his other auspicious work for us, has given his views on this point. However, that is part of the debate that is about to take place. Mr Segers has actually suggested this. So I'm gonna stay away from that for a little while. It's an interesting thought, with pros and cons. I think it's good that I leave it at that. I can imagine that this is a matter for the Presidents, in particular those of the United Assembly. About Van Oldenbarnevelt: I remember our basement trip sharply. The most beautiful moment was of course that we scraped off some damp dust from stones to see if the greatest man in our history would be behind it, of course, together with the founder, Willem van Oranje. We didn't find him then, but we did feel his proximity. I can report that the Secretary of State for BZK will inform the Chamber of the current state of affairs regarding the entire renovation in the near future. He will also address this point. So I cannot go into that now, but he will come back to that. The same applies to the question of access to the Binnenhof, a question from Mr Van der Staaij. During this renovation it now seems impossible to allow the Binnenhof itself to be accessible to tourists. This place is really a construction site. That's why Prince's Day in the Knight's Room is impossible, because then those beautiful restored carriages will crash into the mud. Now we remember from Wim Kan that the highlight of democracy is that the Golden Coach is too late because it was in traffic, but that seems to me a step too far, especially when it gets stuck in the mud. It is now being examined whether there are opportunities for tourists to see the Binnenhof in renovation, for example by means of a watchtower or a walkway. The Secretary of State for the Interior will inform you more about this. Mr Van der Molen asked a question about the Medal of Honor. That is indeed a very nice symbol, let me say first of all for those who have done a special humanitarian act with a number of characteristics. That is an award for which attention is rightly called for. I cannot now see exactly how to deal with his suggestion, but I would like to pass that question on to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, and agree that she will discuss it in greater detail during the budget debate. So I guided the suggestion. It's also there and not at AZ. This also fits in with what Mr Van der Staaij said about the AZ budget. What is too small for the General Reviews but does not belong to the departmental budget, we do so here, but I can refer this back to a departmental budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	I assume that the Prime Minister will at least convey that positive attitude to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	We'll be dealing with the BZK budget in two weeks. There's still a recess in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	Let me put it this way: I am glad it can be picked up on such short notice. If necessary, I will discuss this with Mrs Ollongren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	Sure. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	At that point, the question was also asked whether you would like to be able to withdraw awards or not. That is a question that has also been put to Minister Blok for Foreign Affairs. He then undertook to evaluate the whole of the standing practice. That's what he's doing. It also looks at the review frameworks of other monarchies. When that evaluation is completed, the Chamber will be informed as soon as possible. Then the royal medals after death. You know the beautiful Churchill Museum in London, right behind the Cabinet War Rooms. There you can see all his awards, except for the Netherlands, because there is a small card that says: returned to the chapter in the Netherlands. There's a good reason for that. We want to prevent those awards from being placed on the market and worn by people who have nothing to do with it. That's why we took care of it like this. But it is true that next of kin may choose to extend the loan of the award indefinitely. There is also a compensation for this in the Chancellery. That fee depends on the kind of award. But there is a good reason for that in itself, namely to prevent all these awards from coming into circulation and ending up with people who have nothing to do with it. Then about Willem van Oranje's birthday as King's Day. I like that we have the tradition of King's Day taking place on the King's birthday. In our case, April 27th, so that fits perfectly. If the birthday of a future head of state falls in the middle of winter, then of course you can always deviate to another date. Beatrix, who also has his birthday in the middle of winter, has done that. I would not be in favour of saying: let us unite on the birthday of Willem van Oranje. I've just equated him with Van Oldenbarnevelt without Van Raak getting angry, so I don't want to move on. Dan Extinction Rebellion. During King's Day, the normal right to demonstrate applies. It is up to the municipality to determine how this is implemented and whether restrictions are imposed. It cannot be ruled out that the king is confronted with this. This may lead to an informal meeting, but this does not in any way express a personal view of the king. Then there's the question about the Crown Domain. I would like to thank Mr Sneller for answering that question. I have already said that this is the case when a new grant application is made. The King did not want to interfere in a discussion in the Chamber, and that seems to me to be the right starting point. Then there is the rule of law, whistleblowers and conflict of interest. I found Mrs Kikki's speech, which I heard from the side of the Labour Party, rather intense. I don't share that observation. In the Netherlands, the rule of law is strong and deeply rooted in our political culture. The fact that we are debating this extensively, even if there are incidents, is also an expression of our culture. Also in a formal sense, the rule of law is firmly anchored in the Netherlands, with constitutional guarantees for the separation of powers, protection of whistleblowers and a civilised system for funded legal aid. We are at the top of Europe when you look at how many euros we spend on this per Dutchman. That doesn't mean everything's perfect. That does not mean that there are no improvements possible. This debate will undoubtedly return to JenV's budget, for example on the question of legal aid. I say this in response to Mrs Kuik's somewhat gloomy speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	I was also blamed for looking a little gloomy, but that will have more to do with the fact that my eye is a little inflamed. I will leave the legal aid for a moment; we are indeed going to discuss it with Minister Dekker. But I'd like to talk about the whistleblowers, because it's not an incident. We saw it at the Justice Department. We had the debate on the NVWA on Tuesday. We saw it at the police station. In short, in many sectors we see the phenomenon of whistleblowers, despite the fact that we consider it so very important, not well. This is not only the case with implementing organisations, but also with ministries and departments, which concern us all. I'm gonna repeat my call anyway. It is not so much that I appeal to you or appeal to you, but I would ask you to pay attention to the fact that there is not a culture in which this can grow further, because there are too many examples on too many departments where this really is a fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	Quite precisely: I agree that we should be very keen on the fact that no trend could arise. If that is Mrs Kuik's call, to stay focused on it and to take my role as President of the Council of Ministers in it and to have it, then the answer is yes. Then we agree; then I misunderstood her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr President, I am happy to hold the Prime Minister to that, I say through you. We are also going to have a debate on the whistleblower in the case of the WODC affair; that debate will also take place. But if it turns out that about six months after incident with whistleblowers, and more cases are coming up, I know that I have an ally in the Prime Minister's office to start that conversation again. This really shouldn't go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	About diversity at General Affairs. There is 41% of the employees in the scales 14 to 16 women, and 0% in the scales 17 or higher, but that is only three. One of the three wanted to become alderman in Amsterdam a while ago, so it will soon go wrong, if you only have three. By the way, I've read that book with great pleasure. Of course, we both know the writer very well. It's nice for Julia Wouters that that was mentioned. Then about the art purchases, specifically when it comes to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	I'm not gonna faint. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has read the book, but I am asking you very seriously, very specifically: what personal actions has the Prime Minister taken over the past year to ensure that diversity, not just between men and women but diversity in the broad sense, becomes more common? It is not for nothing that we are discussing the women's quota, which has also embraced the VVD, which the Prime Minister, of course, is completely neutral but is now part of. What actions have we had to expect from him and what can we expect from him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	I am not entirely sure whether you are doing the VVD justice with your assessment of the political position on that file, but I will of course leave that to the group of that particular party. As far as my views on this matter are concerned: I always wear this from the very beginning in this position and for a long time I have been convinced that organisations and teams that are diverse, with young and old, man and woman and different cultural backgrounds, ultimately make better decisions and are more successful than teams made up of white Dutch men of 45. Diversity leads to better decisions. Of course, it also raises issues: how do you deal with this and how do you appreciate each other's differences in terms of different views, which can be more diverse? But in the end, it leads to better decisions. From this conviction, I also participate in all kinds of discussions about, for example, top nominations in the government. The tricky thing about these discussions is that it is not only about the specific function that is available then, but also about the pipeline that must be filled with talent that goes through the pipe, so that when those top appointments are at issue, which I am mainly working on, we also have talent available for those appointments. One of the things that we also look closely at is: how do you ensure that the diversity of young and old influxes is often arranged in the young male and female, gay and straight, white and black and different cultural backgrounds? The government has really gotten much better at that, I must say. When I worked at the Ministry of OCW, we had two people in the entire top of the government with an ethnic background and everyone knew them, at hundreds of functions. Now it's getting better, but it's still going very slowly. The number of women is increasing, but still insufficient. It's also a matter of what do you end up with in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	The budget of General Affairs and Royal House often has a tradition of recurring topics, whether it is Oldenbarnevelt or 5 May. Let me make it a tradition, then you will know that for next year's time to return to this subject, because I think it is important. Then I hope to hear some concrete examples. Mr. Chairman. I'm about to leave because I have to preside over the nitrogen file. Forgive me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	Also at the Royal House, if you look at the beneficiaries, we are far above the quota: two out of three are wives. No, even more: three out of four his wife. Then Princess Christina and the art and the questions of Mrs Uzutuk. I would like to say a few words about this. Mrs Van Engelshoven has answered written questions. I have nothing to add to that. The main line is that owners of private collections in the Netherlands can sell their works by auction. There are all kinds of legal procedures for this and they have been followed here. It was private property, so she was allowed to do this. She didn't do anything illegal with that either. In the meantime, the opinion of the Pechtold Committee has also been received. It has advised that this whole regulation should be reviewed and that it should also look specifically at the possibility of the State purchasing documents that threaten to disappear abroad, to look at the tightening up or inventory of special circumstances that make decisions to prevent a sale abroad, including the financial resources. That is an opinion from the Pechtold Commission. We will respond to this before the turn of the year with a cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	I get that. We await that advice, but before that, I ask the Prime Minister what he thinks of it when selling these valuable art treasures, or if they are abandoned, to offer them to museums in the first place. And by the way, my name is Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	That's what I thought I said!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	Not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	Sorry. It's Mrs. Özütok. My answer is precisely that this is a private collection and nothing strange has happened here. We are also talking about someone who is not even a member of the Royal House yet. Christina is not even a member of the Royal House, but of the royal family. Even if she had been entitled to benefits, it still applies: if it is a private collection, it is a private collection. That's what rules apply. But once again, apart from the royal family/Royal House, the Pechtold Committee has advised us to look again at the whole regulation, especially if art that you want to keep here, threatens to disappear abroad. This, of course, raises all kinds of questions of a financial and legal nature. The committee also notes this in part in its report. We're all gonna have a good look at that. But I really want to repeat here once again that Princess Christina has not done anything illegal here. That's really important to me. Not that this has been suggested, but sometimes you get the feeling that something has happened secretly there, while that is not the case. Finally, Mr President, on transport and buildings. All flights with the government aircraft will be compensated retroactively by the KLM CO2ZERO programme from 1 January 2007. The new unit has new, cleaner engines. The CO reduction plan is also used by IenW, as was the case with the previous aircraft. With regard to the buildings, the possibilities to install solar panels at or around Palace Huis ten Bosch are considered. In addition to research into the possibility for solar panels, sustainable measures are generally taken where possible. These include energy-efficient glass, sustainable materials and insulation of ceilings and roofs. At Noordeinde Palace, the Royal House Service has taken measures where possible in the context of sustainability, for example a transport plan with electric bicycles. The service cars have either an A or a B label. We are in favour of a request to enter into consultation with the municipality of Amsterdam about a thermal storage at the palace. We'll look into that. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you. Then we've arrived now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	One more thing. I had...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	...promise something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	Of course, Mr Van Raak had asked me about free enterprise production. That is what I was and am very much in favour of as the best way to allocate money, people and resources in such a way that this happens in free competition in society. I therefore remain in favour of a market economy like the Netherlands, on a democratic basis. That doesn't change the fact that you've been wondering over and over again how exactly that happened. If I find that the biggest companies in the Netherlands are their top men, they are mainly top men and some top women are giving huge salary increases while they ship off the staff by 2.5%, I say: 'Oh, you could be up to 4%, 5% for those very big companies.' At times like that, I find something of that. That does not mean that I would suddenly be against free enterprise production.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	When I told my associate that I wanted to have an ideological discussion with the Prime Minister, she said that it would be a soaking wet soap mat; it would not do much good. That wasn't my question. My question was quite simple: does the Prime Minister think that if things should not go bankrupt, they should not be on the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	If you put it that way, you'll of course end up in a Soviet Union with a five-year plan setting out which screw still needs to be produced to get those tractors to drive for the next five years, which are in a parking lot for the first five years because that screw wasn't there. You can never answer that question that black and white. If things are essential for a society that are a lot of things, it can still be attractive to ensure that you do encourage you to achieve the highest quality and the best performance. That is why, of course, you are always looking, including in the public administration, for means to encourage everyone to achieve that best performance. That doesn't mean that you want to go to some sort of out-of-the-box market in all kinds of public sectors. No one's arguing for that. No one is advocating the privatisation of education, health care or the prison system. But you can of course see what is possible and what can help to improve quality, for example by making the quality of all kinds of institutions understandable and by creating competition among themselves. We do this in higher education, for example, by making the results of universities and colleges transparent and how they relate to the results of other universities and colleges, including in other countries. So that's market forces? No. Are they lessons from market forces? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	My associate's smiling a little, 'cause she sees that drizzle wet soap mat here in action. I think this is a little embarrassing. The Prime Minister is a smart man and then you ask him a simple question: do you think things that shouldn't go bankrupt don't belong on the market? That is a question of market organisation; that is a question that we must all ask ourselves about the responsibility that politics takes for public interests. Then the Prime Minister's answer is, "Then we'll end up in the Soviet Union." I find that an embarrassing level of discussion. Maybe I can't blame the Prime Minister, either. Maybe he, also as a person, is very connected to a time that has been, the time of neoliberalism. But in this way, we are not getting very much further with a new idea for politics and a new idea for the future. So again a very simple question to the Prime Minister, whom he should have asked every day over the last ten years: if things should not go bankrupt, do they hear on the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	This question can only be answered by agreeing on the role of perhaps the most important body in every market, namely the market master. Of course, it is crucial that, as you want to avoid on the physical market that the nut stand takes over the entire market and that there is also room for the fish farmer and the vegetable man, there is also a strong market master in other markets. The task of this strong market master is to ensure that essential interests that are important for the collective but also for the purpose of that entire market are secured. That is, of course, what we are doing in all kinds of sectors where forms of market operation are. I think there are very few in the Netherlands. In health care, there is virtually no market functioning. In some other sectors there is some market forces. That doesn't have to be bad at all if that's the goal of getting us all the best quality at the best price through a tight market master's role. That's essential. The goal is not to make a profit, if that's what you mean. It's not a cookie factory you say I produce the cookies cheaper, I make less commercials, I sell them anyway, and I make more profit. That's not what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Bosma, Martin Bosma, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Chairman. With all kinds of respect to Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, but of course we only have one true Father of the Fatherland. That's William of Orange, who sacrificed body and good. He deserves a tribute. Coos Huijsen, a former colleague of ours, who joined the Chamber in 1972 for the Christian-Historical Union, made this plea earlier. Better steal well... How's that proverb going again? That's why I have this free and unveiled motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Father of the Fatherland deserves a tribute;]] [[Whereas celebrating King's Day on the birthday of William of Orange connects Republicans and Monarchists;]] [[calls on the government to celebrate King's Day in the future on April 24, the birthday of William of Orange,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-III-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know that Mrs Kuik is gone, but it is good to say that the summary she gave of the VVD's position is not entirely in line with reality. It was about diversity at AZ. The Prime Minister forgets to say that the most important role in that ministry is taken by a woman, as we have seen in the debate he had with Mr Asscher. She was called upon then. I spoke in my speech about the importance of 5 May. I welcome the positive response of the cabinet. Nevertheless, I think it is good to support that positive attitude with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas on 5 May 2020 it is celebrated that it was 75 years ago that the Netherlands was liberated;]] [[Whereas it is the responsibility of employers and employees to agree on the granting of days off;]] [[whereas the Cabinet has previously indicated that it is desirable that 5 May should be a day off for people;]] [[believes that it is desirable that as many people as possible in the Netherlands can celebrate Liberation Day on 5 May;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how the call to social partners to allow as many people as possible a day off on 5 May can be given its extra significance and weight, and how that call will be followed, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the end of April 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van 't Wout, Sneller, Segers, Van der Molen, Kuik, Van Raak, Özütok, Van der Staaij, Martin Bosma and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-III-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	The motion could just get a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	That's right. When I see the motion, I don't think the Prime Minister's going to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	I have indeed co-signed the motion because I think it is an important day and because I believe that the social partners should discuss this with each other. We also know that there are small entrepreneurs who are not at that consultation table. Should we read the motion in such a way that this also applies to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	"Social partners" should be read in the broadest possible sense; they are employers and employees. Sometimes they do not even work with a collective agreement or there is an individual contract of employment. In all these cases, the appeal of this motion would be: do everything in your power to allow 5 May to be a day off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	Thank you, Mr. Van 't Wout. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply and his response. I understand that there will be another cabinet response on the protection of valuable cultural heritage. This is a very important point for my group. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the royal collection contains many works of art and furniture, part of which belongs to the national cultural heritage;]] [[noting that Dutch museums were disappointed at the beginning of this year when valuable art was auctioned by a member of the royal family;]] [[noting that the Pechtold Commission recently concluded that the protection of cultural heritage was inadequate;]] [[Calls on the Government to take stock, in line with the recommendations of this Committee, of how the works of art and furniture from the royal collection belonging to the cultural heritage can be protected, as much public as possible and will be offered to Dutch museums first in case of sale;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Özütok, Mr Kuik and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-I-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	All beginnings are difficult, even for a prime minister. An ideological debate is, of course, difficult if you have always assumed that ideology does not exist, that it is some sort of elephant that hinders your view. But we're gonna have to do it. The time of neoliberalism is over. We have had the time when the free market can organise society better than democracy. I asked the Prime Minister: if things can't go bankrupt, do they hear in a market? This has nothing to do with the Soviet Union, which the Prime Minister visited regularly at the JOVD in his youth, but with the organization of the market. The question is, what's an audience? What do we take political responsibility for? That can, of course, be different. You can say hospitals can make a profit. Care money can go to shareholders and then they can go bankrupt. I don't think so. You could say housing corporations are real estate companies. The real estate is always a little shady. You can make money in that and then you can go bankrupt. You can also sell all social rental properties to foreign shareholders. That's not my thing. We have seen in the crisis that banks have a very large public function and can plunge ourselves into a major crisis. I think we should have the debate on this: what is the public and what is not? Then let me present the Chamber with such an ideological anchor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that cases that are not allowed to go bankrupt do not belong on the market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-III-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr. Chairman. If we adopt this motion, we will have a wonderful means, a wonderful ideological anchor, to engage with the Prime Minister in the debate on what should not go bankrupt, which we must therefore take as political responsibility, and which should not belong in the market but in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	What a weird motion. Mr Van Raak talks about things that should not go bankrupt. He'd have to specify that. I don't think companies should go bankrupt either. Companies are very important, otherwise we have no money and no things to buy. Then the economy doesn't grow. So this is obviously just a proposal to turn the Netherlands into a kind of Cuba.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	I think Mr Bosma is at approximately the same level of ideological discussion as the Prime Minister. We don't have a clear idea about what's public. In recent years, I have been very disturbed by this in the House of Representatives. We had this discussion, for example, when we started to introduce the Standards Act. I launched that plan myself once. That was then incorporated into the coalition agreement. At that time, it was very unclear what this Law on Standards will apply to top incomes. What's an audience? What is the subject of market forces? And where should we not organise market forces? We have not had this discussion in recent years, which has brought a lot of things to the market that I do not think belong there. We also learned that this did not go well. Mr Bosma is making strange movements, but I'm just looking over them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mr Van Raak may bring in other laws and hide behind everything, but he is tabling a motion stating that cases should not go bankrupt. Then I ask a very simple question, namely whether my impression is correct that companies should not go bankrupt either. Nobody wants a bankrupt company, right? Everyone gets fired and everyone runs out of money. Isn't this a proposal to put the entire economy under state control? This is socialism, isn't it? This is the Soviet Union, isn't it? This is just Cuba, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	No, this is a proposal to have a fundamental debate on what could go bankrupt. What is the subject of commerce, profit making, and what isn't? If we believe that housing companies and hospitals should not go bankrupt, they should not be subject to market discipline. Then they should not be subject to profit and should not be in the hands of foreign shareholders. This applies to public transport and housing corporations. In fact, the motion calls for the House of Representatives to reflect on what is actually public. It would be very good if Mr Bosma did the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	Yes, and he does it through the microphone while Mr. Bosma...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	Yeah, I heard him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	...some noises outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	He's making a bit of a run for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	I think it is a very interesting debate. I do not know whether the general affairs and the Royal House budget is the most appropriate place, because, according to Mr Van der Staaij's definition, this debate could well be held in the General Political Reviews, but now the motion is before us, I have the following question. Of course, we have had the very awkward situation that banks had to be saved, an example that Mr Van Raak also referred to. Of course, that was very uncomfortable because it is a market institution and not a public institution. Still, it's two-and-a-half. Or the SP is for nationalization. Or they say: they can go bankrupt, in the sense that saving a bank as a principal is excluded. Then what's the SP's choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	We always assumed that banks are commercial organisations. If you're commercial, you can make a lot of profit, but you can go bankrupt. In 2008, we noticed that some banks have such a system function that we cannot let them go bankrupt. This means that bankers can screw up the business, enrich themselves, harm public interests, which we then have to take the fall for. Then the discussion started about how much audience is actually in the bank. As SP, we have proposed, for example, that ABN AMRO, which we still have a majority of shares, should become a public bank, not by making the entire financial sector non-commercial, but by at least giving people the opportunity to have a public bank where you can safely lose your money and a bank that will always function and cannot go bankrupt. I hear that there are now sounds to allow the so-called Volksbank to fulfil that function. I am very much in favour of ABN AMRO fulfilling that function. There are also people who say that you should separate those functions within banks. Banks could then be a business bank on the one hand. Well, you can let a business bank go bankrupt. On the other hand, they could have public functions, for example in payments, because the President and I have no alternative to our bank account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yes, and the President also thinks this is a very comprehensive answer. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'm trying to ask a short question. I'm in favour of cooperative banks. That seems to me to be a wonderful model with much more ownership of those who hand over their savings to such a bank. At the same time, it is a dilemma because I am not in favour of the nationalisation of banks. But to say very categorically that you should always let them go bankrupt if they threaten to go bankrupt... That's what happened to DSB, because that's where it was released. But it can also be in the public interest to save a bank because the system is so disturbed, our economy is so damaged and so many savers are harmed, that we must act. Surely it can be in the public interest to save such a bank, when it is not the public duty to nationalise all banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	No, but that's not what I'm talking about either. That wasn't what I said either. I refer this to the Prime Minister because all these years I've been here at the Binnenhof, since 2003, first in the Senate and now here, that discussion about what's public couldn't be held. I know that the Christian Union has been working on this for many years, as has the SP. I think it is important for good, healthy politics that we have clarity about what is public and what is not. Those things have gotten awfully messed up. That is why we have also implemented liberalisations, independences and privatisations, without having any clarity about the public functions of organisations. I am convinced that this has made a lot of mistakes. That's been an ideological blind spot. That blind spot looks like it's gone now. There seems to be room for discussion now. After the General Political Reviews, there seems to be room for discussion. So I took the first opportunity to start that debate with the Prime Minister. That wasn't easy, but it's hard to start. It seems to me to be of fundamental importance for the proper functioning of our society and our democracy that we are getting clear, clearer than we are today, which is what our audience thinks is and what is not. That may be different for me, for Mr Segers and for other parties, but the motion is intended to start that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	That's right. That's right. I am very much in favour of this debate because it is a fundamental debate. So I like to feed it, although I don't know if this is the place to do it. I do not know whether I am categorically in favour of banning the saving of any market institution. So I do not know if I am in favour of the motion, but I agree with Mr Van Raak that this debate should be held. Let us look for new opportunities to see what the end of so-called neoliberalism means and what it means to protect the public interest at this time. Let us indeed continue to have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yeah, we're supposed to have that debate. Nor does the motion say "go implement the SP programme" or "go implement the ChristenUnion programme." The motion states that what should not go bankrupt should not be on the market. The question 'what should not go bankrupt' is, in a rather peculiar way, the question in the little debate I just had with Mr Bosma, which is a political question. I, Mr Segers, the Prime Minister and Mr Bosma, have different views on this, but that is precisely the debate we need to have with each other. We have not been able to have that debate with each other in recent years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. You've made that clear. I now turn to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his very brief reply. My first question to the Prime Minister is whether he has been behind the cathedral for a shorter period of time to deal with a budget. In the recess I will at least think about exactly what that was about and also read the letter of last Monday a few times, as Mr Van 't Wout suggested. I have another question about the special advocate. On the basis of the answer, my question is why the Crown Domain is either in the extracomptable annex, but it is not related to the kingship, which is not the case for the special advocate. I understand the Prime Minister's reasoning on the recovery of the ribbons, but it was precisely the costs that weighed heavily on Minister Donner, then Minister of the Interior, which prevented the abolition at that time. Perhaps the Prime Minister's response to the foreign heads of state has slipped my mind. Finally, I would like to make a statement to the Chamber to make 5 May the day off for as many people as possible. Following the appeal of a number of colleagues, I will see if I can merge this motion with Mr Van 't Wout's motion at a later date. 7. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas on 5 May 2020 it is celebrated that the Netherlands was liberated 75 years ago;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that as many people as possible should be able to reflect on and celebrate this special day each year;]] [[expresses her opinion that it is desirable that 5 May should be a day off for as many people as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller, Mr Van 't Wout, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Segers and Mr Özütok.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-III-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u172	I am reading one motion, Madam President, but only after I thank the Prime Minister for his reply, which was to the point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that during the renovation of the Binnenhof, the United Assembly on Princess Day is not held in the Knight's Room, but in another place;]] [[Believes that celebrating Princess Day outside The Hague can increase the involvement in our democracy and that therefore, when considering alternative locations for Princess Day, the possibility of celebrating Princess Day elsewhere in the country should be considered seriously;]] [[calls on the Presidium to enter into consultations with the President of the United Assembly in order to examine the possibilities of celebrating Princess Day at a location elsewhere in the country as long as the Binnenhof is not available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van 't Wout. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-III-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr. Chairman. In response to Mr Sneller. That grant Kroondomain is not in the table of the extracomptable state. So that doesn't include it. It is true that, at the request of the Chamber, we sometimes pay attention to it in a footnote, but it is not mentioned in the amounts. So what's the situation? The budget consists of the payment to the King and the B component. That's Article 2, Royal House Service. Article 3 sets out the issues which are still covered by the budget. In the extracomptable state there are things to do with the performance of the kingship. But all kinds of things that fall outside of the kingship, for example, think of the role of Queen Máxima as UNSGSA or the Crown Domain................................................................................................................................................. But once again, there is always discussion about it. Therefore, it was included in footnote 1. I would like to take over the suggestion to remove it, because then there is no misunderstanding at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u175	I think it says on page 17: LNV budget XIV, article 12 grant Kroondomain Het Loo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u176	Yes, but this is not mentioned in the sum of amounts in the extracomptable annex. I mention the subsidy because it is, of course, thanks to the Animal Party and others who are mentioned here over and over again, so I know that it is in the spotlight. But it would be better not to mention the grant at all. So I think I see this as a call for the footnote to be deleted in the next budget. Mr Sneller's second question went overboard. Of course, there is also a cost aspect, but the main point is to prevent them from wandering. And about the foreign head of state. I said the Foreign Minister is still working on that. I tried to answer all the questions. You said it was fast. Yes, in itself delay... also given your last name... is not the purpose. It's not the goal to do things slowly. If you feel that I have not been sufficiently detailed in certain areas, I see that I have time left. The next debate will not start until 2.30 p.m. I am therefore prepared to do it in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u177	Well, I'm fine with the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u178	Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 6 (35300-III) I would like to advise against referring to the debate we have had, also in view of the time. The motion in part No. 7 (35300-III) is judged Chamber. The motion in part No. 6 (35300-I) I must advise against. This is a private collection. It has no status other than other private collections. It is true that we are working on a cabinet response to the report by the Pechtold Commission. Perhaps Mrs Özütok can hold the motion. Is that a thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u179	I think that's a very good thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u180	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (35300-I, No. 6) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u181	Then the motion to part No. 4 (35300-III). The exchange of views between Members of Parliament reflected my thinking as well. So may I refer to that and, against that background, advise against the motion? And the motions on the pieces Nos. 9 and 10 (35300-III) are appeals to the Chamber itself. So I don't have to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u182	This is really fast, isn't it? Thank you. This also brings us to the end of the discussion of the General Affairs budget and the King's budget. I thank the Prime Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u183	We shall vote on the motions tabled after the autumn recess. For now, I'm suspending the sitting until 2:00 p.m.
