ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Geurts, on behalf of the CDA, for his question on more than 200 activists who occupy pig farming in Boxtel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday was a black day for all farmers in this country and for one pig farming and his family in Boxtel in particular. Hundreds of animal extremists decided to violently break into a farmer's house and his family's house and deliberately break the law. The pig farm was illegally occupied for more than ten hours. For ten hours, this pig farmer and his family have been in fear. For ten hours, the animals themselves have been unnecessarily endangered and their stress has been caused. Ten hours of burglars in your own house, because a farmhouse is also a home for a farmer's family. I would like to express my great respect for the pig farmer and his family and the staff. I have seen with my own eyes how they managed to keep their peace in this difficult situation. That deserves all the praise. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday there was lawlessness when it comes to animal activism. So we can talk about extremism, and that makes me incredibly angry. What has happened here is totally unacceptable. There must be a strong response to this. That is why I have the following three questions for the Minister. Why did it take so long to get these extremists out of the stable? Is it true that those with IDs weren't arrested? It can't be that you can break into this country if you have your ID on you. What will happen to these extremists now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday afternoon I was informed that an estimated 150 activists of the Meat the Victims action group had illegally occupied a pig farm in Boxtel. I contacted the Chief Constable directly on this, because the situation seemed to me to be very threatening, regardless of the fact that it also seemed to me to be extremely unlawful. Moreover, in recent months I have had a number of discussions with farmers and groups of farmers about the growing threat to farms. And that is my heartfelt concern. What happened next? As a result of this occupation, an emergency meeting took place between the triangle "Mayor," prosecutor, chief of police, and was chosen to de-escalate first. I would like to stress that this means asking for, or talking about, the quiet leaving of these stables, not that there would be no criminal proceedings or no police report. It certainly isn't. All this has been done bearing in mind the safety of humans and animals, given the size of the group and the unclear intentions of the activists. When that strategy came to nothing around 18.00 hours, I was briefed by the acting President of the College of Attorney General and looked through the triangle at another solution that should come. In this context, the ME has come and has been requested to leave the stable. When that did not happen, the occupation with the help of the ME ended around 10 p.m. As it now stands, 64 arrests have been made in connection with local trespassing and 12 arrests concerning the inability to show an ID. People have been transferred to the offices of Eindhoven and Den Bosch. Mr. Chairman. I understand that Mr Geurts is indeed saying: did it not last long? But the triangle has chosen to avoid and resolve as long as possible an escalation, a completely out of control, and in a manageable way. Finally, the last sentence. Mr. Chairman. We have a free right of demonstration in the Netherlands. Protest and act against something you don't agree with. This should be democratic, but not in a way that endangers the goods, or other people's animals, or other people. Justice will always take strong action against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is important that the Minister recognizes the seriousness of the situation and also indicates that he is taking action. But the situation does something to my sense of justice. Crime that does not pay and farmers have to deal with intimidation and threats for a longer time. They feel more and more unsafe and that feeling has now become true. The cabinet is committed to ensuring the safety of our farmers in this country. That is why the question: is the Minister prepared to urge our investigation services to stop these animal rights extremists? You can't get away with this as a terrorist, can you? Through the Minister also a call to the NVWA. The company doctor contacted NVWA yesterday afternoon. They didn't have time for him. If he wanted to send me an e-mail. That's a bizarre situation, isn't it? I assume the NVWA will cooperate fully with this company from now on. It is our farmers who provide healthy food to all people at home and they deserve to be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I will pass on the point of NVWA to Mr Schouten. But I can say on behalf of the cabinet that the NVWA will give this great priority. That's one. Two. In fact, I have already said it several times in recent months with farmers, and in connection with this I have also discussed with the police and the public prosecutor that this concerns me, that apparently there is a form of animal activism that is beginning to move beyond the borders of our democratic society. I've been paying attention to that. I will have a discussion with the organizations this week and I hope to be able to visit the farmer affected this week. Because in the end, I find it most frustrating and traumatising for him and his family.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Rounding up. I hope we don't have to talk about this too often, but I'm worried and I think we're gonna talk about it more often. That's not a good sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Can the Minister tell us how many of those animal terrorists were active there and how many have now been arrested? And can the Minister explain to the whole of the Netherlands why the brave Frisians who have been brutally persecuted, the so-called "blocking fries," all of whom should have gotten a ribbon from this minister but were treated to brutal persecutions by the highest boss of the state... How is it that these blockage fries have been dealt with hard, but these environmental terrorists, these animal terrorists, are actually being released or are not even being arrested? And even they were further interviewed afterwards. How can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	As Minister for Justice and Security, I am responsible for this. You may also appeal to me to ensure that the services under my responsibility take adequate action if such a situation arises. I also described that it looked like a threatening situation, with such a large group on a farm. Yesterday, there was an act of control. How the judge then deals with it in one case or another, I have to stay out of it as Minister of Justice and Security; you know that. That is the separation of powers. It's not for me to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	A second question from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	I did not get an answer to the question of how many were active and how many were arrested. The other question has not been properly answered either, because this minister is the chief prosecutor. I'm not talking about the judge. The state's attorney's office has been following these block frying in a terrible way. You call that "prosecution," but I call it "executed." But these environmental terrorists are barely touched. Can you explain that difference? I did not receive any answers to either question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	The Public Prosecutor's Office determines his own prosecution policy. If I'm going to intervene, I'm going to have to give you a clue, but I'm going to go to your room first and put it to your room. This has not been the case here, nor has it been the case in Friesland at the time. As far as numbers are concerned, I think I said in the introduction that an estimated 150 activists were reported in Boxtel. But if I didn't say that right, I'm sorry. Sixty-four people have been apprehended in connection with local trespassing. 12 people have been arrested in connection with the failure to show an ID.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	Good. Then I will go to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	The scenes we saw yesterday around those farms in Boxtel defy every description. It is crazy that this can happen in a rule of law and last for so long. The Minister explained how that turned out. The spokesmen of this action group have also indicated that they want to intensify their actions. My A question to the Minister is: what will the Minister do to prevent that? And the B question is: is the Minister willing to cooperate or work to ensure that in these kinds of situations the quick law is applied, a bit analogous to the unrest around old and new, lick piece by piece. It's an international organization...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	Clear, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	That way, hopefully, we can give everyone what they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	I would like to make a specific offer to your Chamber, because I am speaking with the farmers' organizations this week. I would also like to look at the situation on the spot to see exactly how and what was there and, of course, to express my sympathy. At the moment, I am being informed by my official services about the precise picture, because this organisation is called Meat the Victims, but there are also other organisations in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	You would give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	Excuse me. If that image of the organizations is clear, I would like to come to your Chamber with a letter. Maybe we can talk about this in any form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	When's that gonna be about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	I expect I'll have that letter at your room in three weeks at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	Good. Then I'll go see Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	No, you've already been, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	Are these points in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	These points...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	Yeah, these dots are in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	Okay. Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	It is good that the Minister is talking about peaceful demonstration, as opposed to yesterday's activities on the farm. The latter also deeply regrets GroenLinks. On 1 February we already asked questions about the nature and extent of the threats against farmers. In the answers we received from the cabinet, there was talk about filming on farms and about threats on social media. Is this a new chapter in the threats to farmers? Did the minister see this coming? Was the AIVD aware of these activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	The police and the Public Prosecutor have not been able to see that an action was taken on this farm in Boxtel. Last week, however, there were indications that something might be done by an action group. However, that is, of course, not enough concrete to put the whole of the Netherlands on it. I would like to say that, for this reason, I have spoken to individual farmers and to a group of farmers a number of times recently, and I will continue to do so. As I have just said, I do note that there is an increase in activism in this area, an activism that goes beyond the limits of our rule of law, and I think I should be alert to that and also oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	Terrible what happened, we all agree on that. This simply cannot and cannot be done in our country, and yet it is happening. It also increases, if I may believe the Minister. He says he sees an increase in the activities of animal activists and the organisations themselves also report that they want to intensify their activities. So my only question is: how will the Minister deal with these organisations? How are we gonna make sure this is "once and never again"? Can we act in such a way that the organisations think to themselves: we sometimes had the plan to intensify, but we are not going to do so now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	I want to start with the organizations around the table, to share what we have knowledge about here and how we see that development. As soon as I have formed a picture of this, I will return to you in the letter in which I will also deal with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	This action only widens the gap between livestock farming in society. In that sense, it's a chanceless, wrong action. My concern is that it is also supported by society, for example by local board members of the Party for Animals. This means that this action may be followed by copycats. The question to the Minister is whether he has a visual on what might be next targets. Is the Minister prepared to take action against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	I will never be able to answer the first part of the question, because that is obviously information too confidential to share, at least not here in this way. It may be shared confidentially with your Room. But I keep repeating: I take this seriously. I've been having these conversations lately, and I've concluded that there seems to be an increase. Unfortunately, I saw that confirmed last night, and as a cabinet, we really need to bet on that. Once again, I will return to that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	When my colleague Jaco Geurts was at the pig farmer's yard, I stood outside for five hours with angry farmers, who really felt that the rule of law is no longer there for them. I have to tell you honestly: the only expectation I had was that the old DV&O prison bus would drive into the grounds and load up the whole mess. I'm afraid that didn't happen. So of course people think: we're going to scale up, we're going to go through with this, because apparently they're not being addressed. So my question to the Minister is actually very concrete. When are we gonna get information on how these guys are being punished? And merciless, because if extremists can get away by just walking off an estate, then we're not worth a slap in the face, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	The image that people can just walk away from the yard, I throw off myself. We shouldn't put that down like that. I have outlined, and that is very difficult to understand at the moment, that it is indeed necessary to act in such a state of control at such a time, even if it was only to prevent the perpetrators from trying to portray themselves as victims in a harsh approach through the use of videos, as they do today. That requires a nuanced approach. I mentioned the numbers. Mrs Van Toorenburg can count on these people to have what justice gives them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	The right to demonstration is a great asset in a rule of law. But a rule of law also stipulates that you must remain within the limits of the law. That didn't happen here. There was harassment, criminal behavior, and the PvdA disapproves of that. The minister says there hasn't been any interference to de-escalate. How does the Minister explain that waiting has caused anger in the surrounding area to provoke violent reactions from farmers? How can the Minister say that waiting contributed to de-escalation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. How to intervene in the best way is always a consideration that you have to make. That's the trade-off that the local triangle makes. That includes all the expertise, namely the mayor, the district attorney, the police chief and also the people on the ground. I was informed of this in the hours before it happened, by the way. I have always understood that it was still the most sensible consideration to do so as far as possible in a manageable way. We are sitting here now, but we have to realize that this is a stable with a large number of animals in which 125 people had been hiding. To minimize the damage as much as possible and to prevent all kinds of other things, I've already said that perpetrators can play a kind of victim role. You also have to make sure people aren't in danger. These considerations must be made locally. I think this has been done very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. The VVD was blazing yesterday. I think a lot of people in the Netherlands were. Everyone's sense of justice, even though you don't eat pork at all, is really compromised. You gave the numbers. More than half of the people who were there just went home. As far as the VVD is concerned, that number is far too high, especially given the fact that there were also foreign guests or actually foreign undesirable guests present. How does the Minister deal with this, given that people really can't understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	I mentioned a number of arrests. That's one. Two is that I have been repeatedly reported last night and this morning that the people who showed their ID have been outlawed. The way the justice system continues to deal with that is at some point the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's not up to me. I'm also saying that there were an estimated 150 activists. That number is not quite clear. It could be a little more, but it could be a little less. I understand from the police and the prosecutor's office that apparently some of those activists just got off the premises during the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	Your second question, Mrs Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister referred to a number of discussions he had in recent months. What exactly was discussed there? Has that been discussed that it is in any case explicitly committed to making a report at all times? Is the police really open to this and is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	Yes, I and my colleague Mr Schouten also mentioned this in a letter about a number of endangered rabbit breeders. That is exactly the point Mrs Laan is making. I said: will you please continue to report it or at least report it if, for any reason, you do not want to report it or dare to report it. At least we'll have it in the picture and the police and the Public Prosecutor will be able to do as much about it as possible. By the way, I have also said in conversations, and I have also said here that this form of activism or demonstration involving trespassing and such things are not part of our society. That doesn't tolerate the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals is the only party that rejects all violence, against humans and against animals. Yesterday in Boxtel, we saw violations of law by activists, but also by farmers. The course of justice must have its course. That's what the Minister said. In a democratic rule of law, the judge deals with this and not with politics. So the activists who did it with open sights have been arrested and prosecuted. But can the minister reflect on the law violations we've seen in the barn? The Animal Law says that it is forbidden for a farmer to take care of animals and we have seen images of sick and dead pigs that clearly were not given the mandatory care by the farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	And the question is, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	I would like to know from the Minister whether he also takes these violations seriously and whether he wants to reflect on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	I explained to him that is more my safety role than I did yesterday when I heard of this threatening situation, from that moment on I was completely informed from the first hand until the moment the evacuation was completed. Whatever else is judged to be criminal in a file is not up to me as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	I agree with the Minister. Intimidation, violence and threats are out of the question. I imagine the farmer has been intimidated, and we have the legal process for that. But I ask the Minister to also reflect on the violations of the law in livestock farming. I signed up for Question Time today because we were confirmed a week and a half ago that the management of the NVWA actually says to the inspector: well, maintain but not so much. In pig stables, almost six million pigs die of misery every year. Can the Minister acknowledge that this also undermines the sense of justice of those who are concerned about these animals and that it is necessary for the government not only to serve the sense of justice when it comes to prosecuting activists, but also to uphold the rule of law? I think the Minister should reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	I will, I promise you, answer in two sentences. The first is: I am the Minister of Justice and Security. I can tell you one thing: I strongly reject the idea of self-direction. If anyone thinks someone else is doing something that someone else doesn't think they should do, they should just report it to the police, report it to the police, or they should, for all I care, bring an interim action before the judge. But we don't know where we're headed, and I always argue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you.
