ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the Medical Devices Act. I give the floor to the Minister for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. There have been incredibly many questions asked, and I'm going to try to provide all of them with an answer. But I would also like to make a few preliminary remarks. We are talking here about the medical devices bill, and then, of course, it becomes a bit of a debate about provisions in legislation. Several of you have said it this morning: we have Mrs Roes in mind, for example, whose breast implants have been placed and leaked in several generations of breast implants. You can't say "excuse," but this law needs to be handled carefully. I think it is a good law that tightens the rules for the use of medical devices, as a Belgian would say. That is important, but of course we also have in mind the suffering caused by implants, as we have seen in Mrs Roes' situation. I don't know what happened to you. There are also people who say: I need those implants very badly, imagine they weren't there. I would like to make a comment about what is in the bill. I would like to make a second comment on the report on the safety of breast implants, and in particular the French ban on macro-textured breast implants, a certain category. And I would like to make a comment about reporting incidents at the inspection, not of calamities but of incidents, because that is a point that was not raised this morning, but extended on 21 March. Then I'm gonna answer questions. Mr President, first of all, on the medical devices bill. This bill implements the new European legislation on medical devices and in vitro diagnostics. That bill has been under intensive negotiations for five years. My predecessor has regularly informed you about the progress of these negotiations. These Regulations contain additional measures to ensure the safety and effectiveness of devices for the patient. Additional requirements are imposed on the independence and the necessary expertise in notified bodies. Manufacturers should better substantiate that their tool is safe and does what it promises through additional requirements for clinical trials. For high-risk tools such as implants, an opinion from a panel of independent experts will be forthcoming for a product that receives a CE certificate. Furthermore, the new legislation requires manufacturers to continue to monitor the product by post market surveillance after it is on the market. So not only does the manufacturer have to keep following stricter requirements in advance, but also when the product is on the market. In addition, the regulation should provide a better understanding of the safety and effectiveness of the devices for everyone, including the patient. The new European ICT system EUDAMED is being built for this purpose. I expect that the new regulations will really be a step forward in the safety and effectiveness of tools. The present bill is intended to implement the regulations. The regulations concern mandatory law, with only a limited degree of discretion at national level. Our current law on medical devices is based on a European directive. A directive must be implemented in national law. Today we are talking about the new Medical Devices Act, which is based on a regulation. Regulations are directly reflected in our legal order, which means that provisions of regulations should not be included in our national regulations. Therefore, our national laws and regulations need to be adapted. A large part of the bill that we are debating today therefore contains no great surprises, but matters that are important for patient safety. The IGJ shall be designated as the competent authority for monitoring compliance with the new laws and regulations. Furthermore, the CCMO becomes the competent authority for examining proposals for clinical trials. Furthermore, the possibility is created to lay down additional rules in an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement. The bill lays down several enforcement instruments, including the administrative fine. The Medical and Scientific Research Act is also amended with people. The Regulation now provides for the necessary protection of subjects. Where our own law overlaps with the regulation, it is amended. There is one aspect in which the regulation explicitly leaves room for national choices. The regulation gives Member States the opportunity to allow or not to allow re-processing. Reprocessing is a collective concept for sterilisation, disinfection and cleaning, allowing a used device intended for single use to be re-used. I think it is important that this is allowed under strict conditions, because it offers an opportunity to combat waste and because it can lead to cost savings. In a moment, I will go into the questions that have been asked about the law. Then there is a comment on the coverage of breast implant safety. A lot of attention has recently been paid to ALCL in connection with the French ban on macrotextured and polyurethane coated breast implants. I have received a great deal of information from the French supervisor about the justification for this ban. I've asked RIVM to give an explanation of this scientific information. I want this explanation quickly; I'll get her before the meireces. As soon as more is known, I'll inform the room. In the meantime, I have asked the Dutch Society for Plastic Surgery to temporarily stop using these implants. A list is attached to the letter I sent to your Chamber last week. Depending on the results of the explanation by the RIVM I will take additional actions. I would like to remind you that I attach great importance to the research on this subject. I encourage this research, among other things, by organising a conference on this subject in July. I will also inform you about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	I should have gotten up a little faster, because I want to ask a question about the minister's previous passage, about the re-processing. As CDA, we've asked questions about that. The minister says he has chosen the strict regime for the Netherlands. Other countries choose differently. It is therefore possible that things that have been reprocessed in other countries will be imported here. If it's okay, the minister's gonna change the law so that it doesn't just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	That's right. We can welcome re-processing, because it can lead to waste management, but patient safety must always remain at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	Then I understand that materials reprocessed in other countries are subject to the same stringent requirements as Dutch materials. Otherwise an uneven playing field would arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	I couldn't agree more. The strictest safety requirements for the re-processing of medical devices should apply. They can only be used in the Netherlands under these very strict conditions. I will actively focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	Then about reporting incidents at the inspection. In the debate we had on 21 March on the safety of implants, I promised that I would make it possible for healthcare professionals to report incidents to the inspection. I raised the question as to whether this would require a legislative amendment. At the moment there is only the obligation for caregivers to report calamities to the inspection. This is stated in the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. In order to also oblige healthcare professionals to report incidents at the inspection, I have promised in that debate that an adaptation of the current Medical Devices Act is necessary. So that's the law we're discussing today. No, that is not the bill we are talking about today, because it concerns the law currently in force. So I'm going to quickly make a letter of amendment to the bill to ensure that reporting of incidents to the IGJ is laid down in the law. I will offer you the letter of amendment very soon. Mr President, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks. I would now like to answer the various questions raised by the speakers. I shall begin with the questions raised by Mr Van Gerven. Mr Van Gerven's first question was: why does the IGJ not impose the same requirements in its supervision of notified bodies as in medicinal products? The answer to this is that the requirements for notified bodies are laid down in the EU Regulation. These requirements have already been strengthened in 2013 and are incorporated into the new Regulation. That is the answer to the question of why there is a difference. Mr Van Gerven's follow-up question is: can the Minister ensure that all research results from clinical research become public? Manufacturers should publish a report containing the results of the clinical trial through EUDAMED regardless of the outcome of the study. This must be done within one year of the completion of the investigation. If the clinical trial has ended prematurely, for safety reasons for example, even within three months should be reported. So that's ample explanation. Yes, research results must therefore be made public. What about the reports that authorities keep reports secret? I'm not aware that authorities keep reports secret. The combination is of course always so that a notification must be indicated. Therefore, if the notification contains information that there is an incident, it must be made public. If that is not the case, it is of course a question of whether it is necessary to report it. This openness is important, but a report should, I think, always be accompanied by an explanation of that report, namely whether there is an incident.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	Let me ask you a practical question. The Minister said a few words about the disclosure of data, but is he going to go back to that in greater detail? Not only the SP Group, but also other groups have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	I'm sure that'll come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	Okay, I'll wait and see. I thought, if that's it, I'd have a few more questions, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	If I understand correctly, the Minister answers the questions per Member of Parliament and not clustered by theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	Per MP and therefore not clustered by theme. Because there are so many different questions and also rather specific questions, I have chosen to answer the questions of the different groups per person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	That's between 80 and 90 somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	Look, we're just going to have a nice afternoon!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	That's for sure, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister guarantee that reports will be registered? That was a question from Mr Van Gerven. Yeah, that's what the inspection does. The answer to that is therefore in the affirmative. How dependent is EUDAMED's industry? Or should I turn it around: how dependent is EUDAMED on industry? One of the two questions was put by Mr Van Gerven. EUDAMED will be the central system for regulating the European market for medical devices in Europe. It is used by many parties for their work: inspections, notified bodies, evaluators of clinical research, manufacturers and importers. All parties shall put information in EUDAMED. There is therefore no financial dependence. It's a widely used system. It will become a system widely used by an incredible number of parties. I really see it as an important European database for data on medical devices. Then the following question: can the Minister guarantee that patients...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Van Gerven has a question on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	Can the Minister explain in more detail who owns EUDAMED? I understand it's a big platform and that everyone there has information... But who controls that? Is that the European Commission, or is that the countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	It is a system of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	And the funding is also being provided by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	Sure. But there's also a payment to be made. Don't ask me exactly for what activities; I'd like to get that straight. But it is a system of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	Will the Minister explain in more detail how EUDAMED is financed? If you're getting information out of that, you're obviously paying for it. That's the kind of business we're talking about. Because I think it is important to be able to trace the so-called money flows properly, in order to guarantee independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	I'd be happy to make that commitment. I'll get that straight and I'll inform your room about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	Another question from Mr Van Gerven was: can the Minister guarantee that patients will not be placed in their bodies with unsafe equipment? This was about implant placement. I think I should be right here anyway. With the advent of the regulations, the safety requirements of particularly high-risk implants will be raised. They need to provide more clinical evidence that the product is safe and effective. In some cases even an independent expert panel looks at it before a notified body issues a CE certificate. However, so we will continue to argue throughout the afternoon, the choice of an implant always entails risks. Therefore, I think it is important for patients to be well informed by their doctor about the risks of complications. We discussed the additional measures I am taking on that point on 21 March. I have promised you that I will inform you more about this before the summer with a progress report. Then there is the question of Mr Van Gerven, who has also been asked by others: is it not very cynical that women should wait until there is a higher risk before implants have to be removed? Patients who are concerned about their implant can report to their doctor. The doctor will then examine the complaints and take further action if necessary. A balance is made between the risks of the implant and the risks of an operation. Only the medical care that is needed will be reimbursed; that is what we discussed yesterday in the debate. If there is a medical need, then in principle the removal of the implants will be chosen. It should be noted that there may also be risks to the explantation, i.e. the removal of the implants. Then I have the question of Mr Van Gerven, whether it is true that France refers to Dutch research. It's about Radar's broadcast last week. On the basis of the decision taken by my French colleague to ban certain macro-textured implants, I asked: may I have your information, on the basis of which you took that decision? This leads to a few hundred documents, including Dutch articles from magazines. So we already have one. But I submitted all this information to the RIVM to give an explanation of this, to see if the French decision can also be followed by the Netherlands. It takes RIVM, as I said, a few weeks to do that. Therefore, pending the explanation of the RIVM, I asked the Dutch Society for Plastic Surgery not to use those specific breast implants anymore. I hope that this situation of uncertainty will soon come to an end. I'll inform the Chamber about that soon. I have one more question from Mr Van Gerven, who deals with Article 6:77 of the Civil Code. Isn't that article applicable to medical professionals? Is that medical professional liable for damage to unsuitable implants? Why don't we put that responsibility on doctors or hospitals? The answer is: yes, Article 6:77 of the Civil Code also applies to doctors, so doctors can already be held liable. A patient can appeal to his liability both to the manufacturer of a device and to the doctor applying the device. Mr President, that is in the direction of Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr Van Gerven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	Yes, because what the Minister says is true. We know that too, because it's in the Civil Code. But the practice is a different one. I am concerned with the comparison between doctors on the one hand and a carpenter or plumber on the other. If the carpenter causes damage by using defective equipment, he is liable. Actually, there's hardly any discussion about that. The owner of a house can then recover the damage from the carpenter. But in the care sector, that is different in practice. There you see very often that circumstances are cited which lead to liability not with the doctor, but with the producer. Then it is up to the patient to prove that this is inadequate and that there must be satisfaction. What does the Minister think of this observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	The Civil Code is designed in such a way that the manufacturer of something he manufactures is liable for it if that is not proper. In the example of the carpenter and nail the nail manufacturer must make good nails. If they are not good nails, then he can be held liable. There's such a thing as liability. In addition, the carpenter can be addressed to the fact that the work is not sound. That nail could play a part in that. Therefore, both the manufacturer of the device and, back to our example, the doctor can be held liable. That's the policy that's in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	In principle, therefore, the doctor is also liable for, in the specific case, the implants he or she uses and applies. But in practice you often see in case law that the doctor is, as it were, exonerated, for example because a certain side effect was not yet known or not sufficiently known. This has already been discussed in the debate on this subject. Then how does the Minister view it? Doesn't it remain that the doctor is, in principle, responsible for the material he uses at all times?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	No, Mr. Chairman. Liability rests primarily with the material manufacturer, the nail, the implant. In addition, the doctor can also be held liable, just as the carpenter can be held liable. So it's en-and and not or-or. So that's a wide choice. Both possibilities exist, and that seems to me to be the right way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	Can I conclude, then, that, as far as the Minister is concerned, there is really no difference in liability between the carpenter and the doctor on the one hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	I don't know. The carpenter's product, in my example the nail, is a bit clearer than, for example, the pacemaker. I can well imagine that the carpenter can see whether that nail is sound and that it is much more difficult for the doctor to judge when it comes to a complicated instrument like a pacemaker. But the core remains that both the producer and the doctor can be held liable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	Before you continue to answer the questions, I would say that there are four amendments tabled by Mr Van Gerven. Do you want to respond to that already, or do you prefer to do so in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	I would prefer to do so in second place because I do not yet have all the amendments, Mr President. They were not all mentioned in the debate either. I'd be happy to do it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions of the PvdA Group. Mrs Ploumen's first question was about the population survey on breast cancer, and more specifically about the side findings directive. Mrs Ploumen's question was: is a warning sent to the general practitioners if it appears that the implant is worn out? The answer is yes. If there is a suspicion of damage, serious damage, i.e. visible damage, then the screening radiologist informs the GP. That is what the directive says. To refer to the word'serious' here, I say that the condition is of course that the damage must be visible. There must therefore be visible wear and tear. Mrs Ploumen asked whether the parallel findings directive has already been amended by the RIVM and, if not, when it is ready. That adjustment is not yet ready. There are still discussions about this directive. I know more about this before the summer and I will report to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	I have an enlightening question. If I listen carefully to the Minister, does he say that it is not yet in the directive, but that it is being worked on and that we will hear more before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yes. The Centre for Population Research of the RIVM is still in discussion with the professional association concerned. A further discussion is being held on questions such as: what does the directive say, what does it look like? So I don't know exactly when they're ready either. That is why I propose that we examine this matter and inform the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thanks to the Minister. He does share my urgency, doesn't he? Because, yes, every day women get that breast examination and every day there are women in whom it is possible to find that the implant is defective; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	In this context, this 'needle finding' is a strange word, but I understand Mrs Ploumen's question very well. I would therefore very much like that clarity to exist. And if it can be done by means of a directive, it is wonderful, but I would also like to listen to it if it can be done in a different way. For that, we have to wait for that conversation with the professional association concerned. I would like to inform you of the findings before the summer, with the same sense of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	The next question was whether the Minister is prepared to ensure that doctors interpret the guidelines in such a way that care for patients is taken seriously. Take patients seriously. We have already discussed what should or should not be included in a directive. In addition, I announced in my letter of approval of late December 2018 that I am setting up a campaign aimed at healthcare professionals. A lot of attention will be paid to the side effects and to taking complaints seriously. I would also like to draw attention to the proper interpretation of the directive. It is therefore a question of both the directive and its communication. Mrs Ploumen's next question was: do we respond with the new regulation to the urgent need for tightening up? From my introductory remarks, I think that is what we are doing. That is what is happening with the regulation. Is it then completely, finally, settled forever with this new legislation? I don't think so. I think we should take further steps. In Europe, the issue will always remain: do we have all the information and do we have all the information transparent? That will be the issue there. I think that, in the Dutch context, we should take back a bit of the debate on 21 March, and put a lot of extra energy into it, for example, in the awareness of such reporting and expertise points of side effects, their use and the linking of systems and registers, so that parties can all make use of them. Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Rutte asked for this earlier. So we're not finished with the subject of medical devices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	I would understand what the Minister is saying when he talks about progressive insight, because of course there will be other implants in five years' time. I think we all understand that. I'm glad he shares with me that this isn't the end of the story. But what's to stop him from taking steps already? Take that scientific research. A report must be made public, but that report is a summary made by the manufacturers. If I understand correctly, this is mainly about research carried out within the European Union. Most research is done outside the European Union. So it seems like that's a big step, but it's not at all. Is the Minister prepared to take this step further with many of my colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	I would like EUDAMED, which will enter into force gradually next year, to be the real data source. In any case, all documents of notified bodies, healthcare professionals and investigative institutions such as universities within Europe must be included. But I would very much like information from countries outside the EU to be made available, perhaps through a data link, so that we can also include information from outside the EU, but this should not be at the expense of finding out. We have not arranged this with one stroke of pens. For a doctor who thinks "I need to check it out" and who will then look it up in Eudamed, it must also be unlockable and findable. That is an example of a step which I think should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	Well, that's what we're agreed on. The Minister therefore implicitly agrees with me that all doctors should have access to all information. I understand all possible technical hiccups and problems, but what exactly is the Minister going to do today or tomorrow to make that possible? Because he shares that wish with me, so he can fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	Well, thank you. That's the second time I've been awarded superhuman superpower, just today. The subject of openness, transparency and the availability of this information will also have to be discussed in Europe in the coming years. I will work for this from the Netherlands because I think that is important, but I would like to make one further comment. Mrs Ploumen said: then the Minister agrees with me that all information should be made available to all doctors and others. Some information is not available. Nor do I find it useful that it is available in the public domain. If two inspections together involve a certain manufacturer, I would be happy if they would share that information through EUDAMED, but I am also happy that this information is not available in public for a while, otherwise the bird may have flown. I may make it a little practical, but there are examples of information that you can say is information, but we should not have it in public when action is still being taken on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	I would like to agree with the Minister, but the fact is that we are still a long way from a situation where inspections may share information about a manufacturer in public. If only we were there! I actually wanted to go back and ask what the Minister is going to do tomorrow, possibly in changing his own law here, to make sure that all information is available, including all investigations, not in summary form supplied by the manufacturers, but just everything available to all doctors and all patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	And then we'll find a solution for two inspections that someone's got on their mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	We are talking here today about a law that does not allow us to regulate that efkes. This is a European regulation; that is mandatory law. So if we want to amend that regulation, we need to do so in Europe. That is why I would like to continue to put this issue of transparency, understanding and accessibility of information in Europe on the international agenda, in addition to the actions we discussed on 21 March. We can do these actions in the Netherlands, when it comes to the quality registers, the implant register and the working methods of the Adverse Reactions Contact Point. Those are all things that we can do ourselves. I also hope to add this information to EUDAMED, which seems to me to be a very practical way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	I'm not gonna celebrate every time, but I'm gonna talk about this subject. For my group, it is now important to make an assessment of the law, i.e. whether we are going to vote for it or against it. So it would be really good if the Minister could indicate exactly when and where he is going to take steps to achieve this transparency. Because that helps us to assess whether this law can be adequate enough for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	Because I still have my doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	This law is actually quite a technical law, if I may put it that way. That's what I said in my introduction. That is a kind of necessary translation of what is needed in order not to conflict between a European regulation and a Dutch law. If we want to do more about transparency and accessibility of information, with you talking about the doctor, while I am also talking about the patient, we will have to continue to treat it as a European one. What's the good opportunity and place for that? I think that after 23 May, the new European Commission is on the move and that this is a topic that we should put on that agenda. We don't have to wait until May 23rd. I can announce that now: I want that. At the same time, Mrs Ploumen knows, perhaps better than I do, that this is not yet settled on 24 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	Okay. You were working on Mrs Ploumen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	Sure. Mrs Ploumen asked what makes me think that the new EUDAMED is close and works. She made a comparison between the current EUDAMED, from 2011 and what will follow from next year. The European regulation gives EUDAMED a key role in legislation. EUDAMED records the manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, EUDAMED is used, inter alia, to register the CE certificates, apply for clinical investigations, report incidents and report security risks. Due to the legal basis in the legislation, I expect EUDAMED to be much better able to meet the need for greater transparency and safety of tools. So it's getting super wrapped up, that EUDAMED, and that's why it's being introduced in steps. But I think it is a step forward and there are still many steps to be taken afterwards. Does the Minister agree with me, asked Mrs Ploumen, that all information should be public, including for doctors? Let me repeat once again: I do think that as much information as possible should be made available to the patient and to the doctor, and at the earliest possible stage. I will continue to work for that. Then the point of the safety warnings. What happens if Member States fail to reach agreement on the disclosure of incidents? In the Netherlands we continue to make safety warnings public on the website of the inspection. How is the Minister going to make it clear what a side effect is and what an incident? That is a little paraphrasing of a question that Mr Van Gerven has once asked, namely: when is something an incident and when is a calamity? As far as I am concerned, such reports need to be explained widely. In other words, patients should be able to report side effects and incidents to the Contact Point and Expertise Centre for Adverse Reactions Implants. The hotline indicates whether there has been an incident or an adverse reaction caused by the use of a doctor. In a campaign, we call on patients to report side effects. Once again, this must be done as easily as possible, because we need that knowledge, that experience of patients, in the case of aids. It may be a crazy comparison, but medicines are extensively tested in advance. This can be done to some extent with implants as well, but not in all cases and also less extensive. That is why it is so important that when the device, the implant, is on the market, experiences are reported. The report of experiences may also be about cheerful messages. They do not need to go to the MEBI, but as soon as there is an adverse experience, a side effect or an incident: report. That's the campaign's commitment. Can the Minister reflect on the role of the inspection, as organised in the new EU regulation? This new law designates the inspection as the regulator for the regulations. The inspection will carry out risk-based monitoring, as it does now, albeit with additional capacity, which we exchanged in the March debate. The inspection seems to me to be getting 30% more formation. To manage the expectations for a moment: that would be about an order size of 11.5 fte. This will therefore be an important additional role for the inspection. Does the Minister agree with us that all information from EUDAMED should be made public? That's what I've been talking about. I think I have answered Mrs Ploumen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	In that regulation, to be precise, Article 123 (d) states that if EUDAMED is not operational as of 26 May 2020, we fall back on the current directives. I would like to know what the Minister is going to do to ensure that this system, which we do not think is perfect but alla, is in any case operational on 26 May 2020. What will he do in case we fall back on the old directives, to prevent the Netherlands from being dragged into a race to the bottom in terms of safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	All efforts are aimed at making EUDAMED live in May next year. I also believe that the Netherlands can make an active contribution to this, and I will also promote it. I'll guard it, too. It is all a little too fast for some parties elsewhere in Europe; we know that. I do not think that we should be distracted by hiccups in preparation. The commitment should still aim to launch EUDAMED in May 2020. It's not a matter of switching a switch, so it's there one day at a time. In addition, there are all kinds of Dutch rules that we can use, for example the national implant register, and attention is paid to the Meldpunt and Expertise Centre. So we can also continue to do all kinds of actions in the Netherlands and they may be just as important. If EUDAMED is up and running, there will be a moment.Don't ask me exactly when we will transfer the data from the Dutch LIR to EUDAMED. The fundamental tone of the Netherlands is therefore always to keep working on and ensure safety and transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	Then I have a request for the Minister. Would he be prepared to inform the Chamber regularly until May 2020 about the progress of EUDAMED's operation? Because in January, for example, we can set off all the alarms if they really don't hurry up yet. That would be extremely helpful to make sure it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	We have already agreed in the previous debate that I will make a progress report on this subject for you. This includes EUDAMED, but it is slightly wider; it also includes the new law, the regulation, the LIR and the centre of expertise. You'll get that report before the summer. That'll be the first update. But on this point, the wish of the Chamber is also my wish. Although it is not the perfect step, we must make sure that EUDAMED is going to fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions asked by the CDA. There were a lot of them. Is it true that the results of the removal of pelvic floor mats are better in Germany and in the United Kingdom? That was Mrs Van den Berg's first question. I am not aware of that, but if this is the case, I will ask the scientific associations to talk to doctors in those countries. The Netherlands may be able to learn from the working methods in those other countries. Then Mrs Van den Berg said: we hear that the treatment with pelvic floor mats in Belgium is no longer reimbursed and still in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, pelvic floor mats are only reimbursed in extreme cases, in those cases where alternative treatments no longer work. In these extreme cases, the potential yields of the mesh outweigh the risk of complications. If we ban mesh altogether, some of the patients with complaints could no longer be helped. That is why I think it is acceptable that pelvic floor mats should still be reimbursed in those very restrictive cases. Does the Netherlands now intend to suspend the use of certain types of plastic mats, i.e. mesh, following the example of the United Kingdom, Australia and a few other countries? The answer is no, for the reason I have just mentioned. It's true that mesh can cause complications in some patients. Therefore, it has been common practice in the Netherlands for years to apply these only in extreme cases, when alternative treatments no longer work. I understand that mesh can still be used in the UK if there are no other alternatives. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Van den Berg asked if I would speak with the NVOG, the NVU and other umbrella organisations to call on them to stop implanting certain types of mesh into research at home and abroad has shown that these implants are safe. These conversations have already taken place. Since 2013, the inspection calls on professional groups to use mesh very reluctantly. As has been said, mesh should only be used in extreme cases in the Netherlands if alternative treatments no longer work. In addition, transvaginal mesh is only applied by specialised gynecologists in six specialised centers. Since then, the number of complications caused by mesh has fortunately decreased.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	The Minister spoke about this in his letter of 1 February. He also writes that there are new products available that are expected to bring fewer complications, but none of this has been proven. The minister says it's only been used in a few centers. We get different sounds about that from the field anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	Then I would also like to have that information. That's what I'm told. From my answer, I hope you will find that I think that there should be a very cautious approach to the use of this mesh. So I'd like to have that information. Then I'll inform your room about that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg's follow-up question was: is the Minister going to provide good information, especially to young people who think too easily about putting a syringe? The information must be accessible, appealing and understandable, including for young people. I am in the process of making information on cosmetic interventions better and more appealing to young people's target audience. I've reported that to you before. I will inform the Chamber more about that appealing information for the summer. Then there is the question of increasing the age for cosmetic interventions, from 18 to 21 years old. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? No, I'm not. When you reach the age of 18 you can vote in the Netherlands, make agreements, drive independently and so on. I see no reason to apply a higher age limit for cosmetic interventions. This would mean restricting the rights of young adults. Young people aged 18 and over are adult and able to act. This gives them the freedom to opt for a cosmetic procedure or not. But good information is important here. And I'm working on it. The following question: does the Minister agree that there should be an independent website where clients can leave their assessments instead of the current commercial comparison sites? Yeah, I'm in favour of an independent website where clients can leave information. Healthcare CardThe Netherlands of the Patient Federation is a good example of this. At the moment there can be searched for plastic surgeons on ZorgkaartThe Netherlands, but not on cosmetic doctors, for example. That is because cosmetic doctor has not yet been recognised as a separate profession. This is expected to be the case on 1 July of this year. Therefore, I will consult with the Patient Federation to see if cosmetic doctors can be added as a separate category and to see what else can be added to Healthcare CardThe Netherlands. Next question. There is no clarity as to the quality of the hygiene conditions required. For example, eyelid corrections are carried out not only in clinics, but also in general practice, where other requirements apply. How does the Minister feel about this? I think it is important that this clarity should be achieved. A few months ago, I thought in December 2018, the Healthcare Institute took over responsibility for the realisation of the Quality Framework Cosmetic Medicine in accordance with its legal perseverance. That's pretty special, but it did happen here. The quality framework shall describe what is meant by good cosmetic care and the competence requirements for the performance of cosmetic medical operations. It is expected that this quality framework will be established and offered by the Quality Board in the middle of this year for inclusion in the Register of the Healthcare Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	According to the Minister, therefore, competence and competence are included in this. We hear that the dermatologist and the plastic surgeon both do liposuction, but according to different standards and own guidelines. May I conclude, then, that according to the Minister, there is one standard, regardless of the original profession of the doctors? Because we understand that this quality framework will only apply to people who are cosmetic doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mrs van den Berg's wish is my wish. There will be a single Quality Framework Cosmetic Medicine. But I'm gonna double-check it to make sure every doctor will then commit to it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the next question. There is no clarity about the requirements of competence and competence. Dentists and general practitioners may be competent for some treatments but without additional knowledge and skills they are not competent. How does the Minister view this? Both the dermatologist and the plastic surgeon are both competent and competent but perform liposuctions according to different guidelines. How can this be made clearer for consumers? This is the answer I have just given: the quality framework describes what is to be understood by good cosmetic care and the competence requirements for the performance of those cosmetic medical practices. This is expected to be adopted by the Quality Council in mid-2019. Then I'll go to the next question. There is a lack of regulation of many medical devices. In the United States, there are only 10 types of fillers and more than 100 in Europe. Are the U.S. doing so well or are we doing something wrong? The safety of the product must, of course, be paramount. A product may only be authorised on the EU market if it meets the requirements and does not pose a risk to public health. At the moment, I have no signals from the European regulators that degradable fillers pose a threat to public health. So the question whether the US is doing so well or whether we are doing something wrong on this point is difficult to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	Would the Minister then be prepared to check in America what the qualifications are and whether they are so different from the European qualifications which lead to such a large difference in authorised products?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	I'm quite willing to do that. Then I'm going to America.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	Maybe there's another way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	No, no, I have to go to America for that. I think it's an interesting question. That's what I'm gonna do. Mr. Chairman. Next question. Is there a lack of supervision by the inspection because it is only involved in serious complications and following reports which therefore prevent it from acting on its own and therefore does not monitor counterfeit fillers and parallel imports? The inspection has been working with the cosmetic sector action plan since 2015. This includes that the inspection is risk-driven. This means a reactive attitude for degradable fillers. The inspection shall monitor the products on the Dutch market and shall take place as soon as there are signals that those products do not comply with the requirements of the law, regardless of whether they are concerned by parallel imports or by counterfeiting. Then I'll go to the next question. There is a lack of information and proper information for patients. Many people are guided by experience websites, but they are commercial and their independence is often a question mark. Is it not better to agree, together with the sector and, for example, with the Patient Federation, to set up a single independent experience website for cosmetic treatments so that it can be assumed that this is not controlled and paid for by the sector itself? Yes, I will consult with the Patient Federation to see if cosmetic doctors can be added as a separate category and to see what else can and should be added to Healthcare CardThe Netherlands. Then there is the question of whether proper advertising rules are needed, including for influencers on social media. Since October 2018, rules within the Advertising Code Commission have been agreed but they are not enforced. How does the Minister view this? How far should we go before there is a legal ban on advertising cosmetic interventions, as may be the case in other countries? When advertisers cooperate with an online influencer, the advertising code Cosmetic treatment applies. For example, the advertiser should not work with an influencer with a minor audience. In addition, the advertising code Social media applies to influencers. When an influencer receives a free treatment in exchange for advertising, the influencer must be transparent. The Advertising Code Commission comes into action when someone complains. So far, I've been checking it out. No complaints have been received. I will consult both the Consumers' Union and the Patients' Federation to see if the possibility of complaints can be brought to the attention of the public. I'd like to explore this before thinking about a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	Before you proceed, Mrs Van den Berg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	I have two questions. I may not have understood correctly, but I had also asked if the Minister felt that the sector should only finance an independent institution itself, as is the case with the Financial Markets Authority and the housing corporations. And do I understand correctly that the Minister said in the second part of his reply: I will go into consultation with the Consumers' Association and the Patient Federation, but there is no proactive enforcement now? Will only be maintained on the basis of notifications?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	That's the system. It is maintained on the basis of reports. I think that's good, too. Not everything can always be checked everywhere, so choices have to be made. I think I am putting the best action on the table here, namely that I should consult with the Consumers' Association and the Patient Federation to see if the possibility of complaining is being brought to the attention and whether something is being done about these complaints. One step further is the question of whether this should be done through an independent institution funded by the sector. That's another question mark for me. I want to start with the question of how we can strengthen the right of complaint. From there, I want to take the next step. Next question. Has the Minister discussed quality registers with the scientific associations in order to achieve what Mrs Van den Berg has called a 'pass or explain' system, a 'comply or explain' system? I haven't had that conversation yet, but I will before the summer. As I said on 21 March, I will report on this in the progress report that you will receive before the summer. Then there's the next question. The Minister has undertaken to examine what initiatives are already in place to organise consumer information on the quality of apps and whether it would be fruitful to take further action. How's that going? The new European legislation lays down requirements for the reliability and safety of apps for medical purposes. Apps that do not meet these requirements should not be placed on the market. That's one category. Another category is health apps that are not covered by legislation, such as apps that focus on healthy nutrition or sports performance. Standards are being developed at European level. These standards include reliability, the burden of proof of claims, privacy, security, quality and user-friendliness. That standard will be ready in the middle of next year. There is hardly anything known about the reliability and effectiveness of all these apps. A part of the LUMC is working on an appchecker in collaboration with Thuisarts.nl, the GGD and the NEN Institute, the Standards Institute. The scaling up takes €100,000. There is cooperation with students from colleges and universities. Is the Minister prepared to look into that? I thought I'd had this question before, but I wasn't sure. I'd like to take a look at that. I will take into account whether the app checker adds value to the NEN standard for apps developed at European level, which I have just spoken about. Also for this I bring homework: before the summer you will get the results of this homework. Then the notified bodies. How is the CE marking adapted to new developments? Manufacturers are required to notify significant changes to the notified body, the notified body, but what if they do not? The answer is: if it appears that the manufacturer does not transmit any changes, notified bodies may withdraw the certificates. This means that a company is no longer allowed to sell its products, which could endanger its business operations. Should there be an independent supervisor for monitoring the publication of research results? Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. Monitoring the publication of research results will be carried out in each Member State with a competent authority. In the Netherlands there are two candidates for this. One is the IGJ, the other is the CCMO. That choice has yet to be made. That will happen during the course of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	Let me ask you a brief question about the previous point. The Minister says: When a notified body finds out, you will withdraw the certificate. However, there is still a category of products for which a CE marking is sufficient while new insights may emerge. I wonder how that process will come about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	Manufacturers of low risk devices may affix this CE marking to the product if they meet the requirements. The IGJ supervises both proactive risk-driven supervision and monitoring in response to reports, i.e. reactive supervision. It is therefore important that healthcare institutions and patients continue to report, so that the inspection can involve them in its supervision. So my first answer was about high risk and Mrs van den Berg's answer is about low risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	This means that if a CE marking imposes new requirements on a low-risk product, this can only be achieved on the basis of a consumer's notification?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	It is proactive risk-driven supervision on the one hand and monitoring on the other. So it's proactive and reactive, it's both. There are three more questions on the part of the CDA that I have to answer. Is it true that, as a result of these European regulations, the CMO is concentrating its assessment of high-risk studies on a limited number of recognised Medical Ethics Review Committees, the METCs? That's right. This will be concentrated for the high risk studies in nine METCs with the most experience in assessing such studies. What's the result of that? I think that's the juxtaposition of expertise. So I think that's a good choice. Next question. The annual report of the CCMO for 2018 reports that consideration is being given to the use of additional expertise for the assessment of clinical research in order to improve the substantive quality of the assessment. An expert in the field of medical devices will eventually be added as an additional mandatory member to review committees wishing to continue to assess such research. How's that plan coming along? The obligation to include a member with expertise in the field of medical devices in the Review Committee is included in the present legislative proposal. So it looks good with that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	Let's talk about those notified bodies. We also discussed this in the debate on 21 March. How do we prevent manufacturers from shopping between notified bodies? We do not know exactly what is exchanged in the communication between the notified body and the manufacturer. That's already problematic to me. But one manufacturer can think: well, if you don't approve, I'll go to another. Even though those notified bodies become stricter and there are staff with more expertise, that does not prevent manufacturers from thinking: it is a company and I can also just go to another company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	But they can't. A notified body may not take over a package from another notified body. The IGJ will see to that. The manufacturer must therefore report it if he has offered it somewhere else before. And if it's about another product, then there's a good reason. But you can't walk by twice. So it's just not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you for that. Can the Minister indicate where to report this? Are those reports public? Or does it go to the IGJ? How does the IGJ see that? I'm not gonna micromanage, but it's nice to have some idea. Do they do that on a random basis? Do they do that on the basis of reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	I'm gonna have to check that out. Let's make that answer a cliffhanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mrs Ploumen owes you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	Yeah, and so am I! Mr. Chairman. One more question from the CDA. What if the CCMO research takes place abroad? Is it not a better idea to have the sector pay its own supervision through an independent supervisor? That's actually a question I'm not ready for. I really need to think about this question. I think I'll include that in that progress report before the summer too. I need to think about this question. I hope that I have answered the questions, with the exception of Mrs Ploumen's one point. Then I come to the questions asked by the PVV. The Minister says that stricter requirements should not hinder availability, but the Minister should say: stricter requirements increase patient safety. Mrs Agema would like my response to that. I agree with the PVV that the importance of the patient is paramount. The regulations are intended to increase patient safety. However, we want patients to have new, innovative tools at their disposal. If we impose too strict requirements before a product is admitted to the market, new tools will no longer be developed. That's not in the patient's best interest. And that is why it is important to keep a close eye on tools after they have been admitted to the market. The regulations therefore include obligations on the manufacturer to actively monitor the product after it has been admitted to the market, the so-called post-market surveillance. This is a theme that the Netherlands has been committed to in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	I ask the Minister: why not? Of some products you will just really need to know more before you allow them to enter the market. More important than money and sales for the manufacturer, for example, is that those pelvic floor mats, those mesh mats, are not only inserted into someone's body; they also grow with the environment. So if things turn out to be completely wrong and someone gets a miserable and painful life, then a mat like that can't even get out. So you really would like to set higher quality standards in advance before inserting a medical device. That was my question to the Minister. Is he prepared to take better care that we know more about this before a means is allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u86	This new law imposes stricter requirements on medical devices before they are placed on the market. For example, the new law that we are discussing today, as I have just argued, is the fact that even if those resources are on the market, information is being obtained from the manufacturer, but certainly from patients, about experiences they gain with that tool. That's what needs to be learned. This remains, unlike medicines, which you can test very long and comprehensively in advance. With an implant, of course, you can't put it in subjects. That's why post-market surveillance is so important. In general, however, I would like to answer Mrs Agema's question in the affirmative, namely that even before the product enters the market those requirements become stronger. That is the nature of the regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes, but that is not at all in line with the practice, because these meshes are not only still used under those conditions, as was explained in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Van den Berg. But the technique is also still used in groin fractures and still in stoma's. And there too, the product grows solid with its surroundings. So there are humans, patients, living guinea pigs. That is the current practice. What does that law change about this current practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u88	The requirements become stricter at the front of the product and also when the product is on the market. That's the general answer. Specifically about the mesh: these can only be applied in extreme cases in the Netherlands in the pelvic floor. Mrs Agema is right to say that the use of mesh for femur fractures and also for abdominal hernias has been taking place for a long time and is not limited either. Of course, complications can always occur. As I have argued before: implants will never be risk-free, but at the moment I have no evidence that there are complications associated with the placement of mesh in the case of groin fracture or abdominal hernias, or that that number is unacceptable as with the use of pelvic bottom mats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u89	I believe that the Minister does not sufficiently explain what the current law is changing in practice. Another example. In his reply to Mr Van Gerven, the Minister said that patients would be much better informed. But what does that really help a patient? You're a layman as a patient, and your doctor has a manufacturer's product. I myself got an implant in my jaw a few weeks ago, but I really didn't talk to my doctor about what implant I got. I'm going to my doctor who tells me that this implant is good and that he wants to put it in my jaw. As a patient, I say, "Okay." I do not know who it has been applied to, who it has been selected for and when it has been admitted to the European market. I'm the layman. My question to the Minister is: what will improve the position of patients, other than that the Minister will better inform them? What if that thing's gonna be really weird?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u90	Even now, the doctor is obliged to inform the patient in detail. It's in the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. That obligation to provide information already exists. What do I think the effect is? On the one hand, the information available in EUDAMED. But it may be as important for people in the Netherlands if more is reported at the MEBI, the Meldpunt and Expertise Center Side Effects Implants. But also because of the data collected in the National Implant Register. I believe that this will lead to more information, including for patients, which will strengthen the patient's position and make it easier and better to talk to his doctor. In many cases, doctors also consider this to be important. Not for nothing are actions planned about joint decision-making and outcome-oriented treatments. I think we are developing and I think the introduction of EUDAMED is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u91	I think the practice is really much more uncomfortable, and that as a patient you just sail on your doctor or dentist. If something goes wrong with a product admitted to the European market, as is the case with 25% of breast implants leaking, then you no longer trust it as a patient with such a breast implant. Then you go to the doctor, who then reports that he's done a blood test, took a photo, examined it again and doesn't see a medical problem. But the patient says: there is something really wrong with that product; with a quarter of people it leaks and I just want to get rid of it! Does the Minister agree with me that the patient should have the last word in that? The patient should be able to request removal of the implant. You can't do that yourself, it's in your body and needs to be surgically removed. There must then be a compensation and will the Minister then just knock on the door to the manufacturer to get that compensation back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u92	There are a few questions in Mrs Agema's speech. I agree that there should be a good conversation between the doctor and the patient. I can imagine in the example we are discussing here this afternoon, the breast implants, that a lot of women are worried about the safety of the implant that has been introduced to them. The best advice is: go to your doctor and the doctor will assess whether there is a medical need to remove the implant. If there is a medical need, there is also compensation under the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mrs Agema has actually already raised a follow-up question that you might be able to answer. Again, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u94	The Minister again referred to the criterion of medical necessity, but that was not my question. My question concerns the following. That woman who has breast implants, 50% of which will leak within ten years and who doesn't feel good about it, goes to the doctor, and then the doctor says, "I poked blood, I took a picture, I did all kinds of tests and there's nothing going on." But the woman says this doesn't feel right; I just want to get rid of it now. It is a product that is allowed on the European market. It's a product that was advised by the doctor who brought it in, but now that person isn't feeling well anymore. Then why doesn't the Minister want to settle this because he's always talking about the medical necessity of this person just getting rid of it and getting reimbursed? If it turns out that the product was not good, the Minister can then contact the manufacturer for reimbursement of what he has paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u95	This is in line with the debate we had yesterday afternoon. I can very well imagine that women feel insecure after the recent attention to implants. That's incredibly annoying. That's why I say and I repeat, go to your doctor. If your doctor says that there is a medical need and that is the reason why the implant should be removed.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u96	I do not think that the Minister can make it clear that a certain fear of side effects that still have to occur, so I am referring to the example that Mrs Agema mentions. Five criteria have now been set, but this is still a transitional area. If the doctor considers it medically necessary, is that criterion sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u97	Yes, I think that criterion is sufficient. If the doctor considers it medically necessary, there must be compensation under the Health Insurance Act. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u98	The Health Insurance Act now mentions five criteria, but it does not mention the criterion: if the doctor considers it medically necessary. That would be a sixth criterion. If we can add that now, we agree. Is the Minister prepared to agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u99	If Mr Van Gerven and I agree on something, you should always pay attention. However, I said in the debate on 21 March and yesterday that the professional determines whether there is a medical need. It is, and it must remain so. It seems important to me that this professional should rely on guidelines from his profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u100	That is true, but we also know the concept of "medical necessity" in medicines. That's a big problem. Then the doctor says it's medically necessary, and then it starts messing with the pharmacies and you name it. Then the minister says: no, no, no, it's not like the doctor decides. And then he launches a whole bunch of ifs and buts. Now back to this debate. If, for example, a doctor who has inserted the implant thinks that it is necessary and that it is best for the woman in question to remove it, does the Minister say that it is being reimbursed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u101	Sounds like the main rule to me. The professional can say: there is a medical need for this lady to remove the implant. The qualification, the answer to the question why it is a medical necessity, is up to the professional, to the profession. They work on the basis of rules and guidelines. But if the doctor says there is a medical need, that seems to me to be the reason to remove the implants and the title for reimbursement under the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u102	What the Minister is saying now is in line with what he said yesterday, namely that it is the doctor who determines that. Does the Minister agree with me that if a woman suffers psychologically from the worries and complaints she has, a doctor who suffers can also qualify as medical necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u103	I could imagine that, but don't ask me to get into the role of a professional, because I'm not. This is also a bit of yesterday's debate: can I lay down criteria to determine what medical need is? I think that's really up to the professionals. I think that decision must lie there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u104	I agree with that, but I also read Mrs Agema's remarks about the fact that there is no compensation for psychological problems caused by breast prostheses in clinics with information to patients. But the minister says he thinks we should be compensated if a doctor says he ranks those problems under medical need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm not the one filling out the criterion of medical necessity. Nor do I know exactly which website or information is being referred to. I will be presented with it in a moment, but I still believe that medical necessity should be the criterion for the compensation of the operation that the woman must undergo in order to remove the implants. I consider this qualification "medical necessity" to be important. That is what we exchanged yesterday. Then compensation is possible under the Health Insurance Act and that seems to me to be the steady line of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u106	It seems the Minister agrees with Mrs. Agema and I. I like to give him this; it's a comparison site. In fact, like us, the Minister says: if a doctor says 'this is medical necessity', then the insurer has nothing to do with it, which means that the doctor has come to that conclusion and has to be reimbursed. I'm going to say it a little sharp, but I think we need to clarify women now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u107	I fully agree that we need to clarify this. I'd like to take a look at what's on that information site, which probably isn't from the government, but from another party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you. You were in the process of answering Mrs Agema's questions, but I think you have already answered a number of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u109	I think so, too. I hope Mrs Agema agrees with me. Can the Minister explain the compensation procedure for a defective device again? We have already exchanged a great deal about this, but the main line is this: a patient can, as has been changed in the debate with Mr Van Gerven, address the producer or the doctor in the event of damage caused by a defective device. Our Dutch liability law lays down the conditions under which this can be done. The compensation for the removal of implants shall be subject to medically necessary care being reimbursed by the health insurance provider. That is the main rule and I hope that will provide a sound and conclusive answer for Mrs Agema. If there are no symptoms with a patient, but the patient still wants explantation, how does it work? Again, only medically necessary care will be reimbursed. If there is a medical need, the removal of the implants will in principle be chosen. In addition, women can also have breast implants removed at their own request and at their own expense. Doctors would advise against this, because of the risks involved in surgery. That is also what I have just said. Am I prepared to compensate victims for the removal and all post-treatment? No, if there is a medical need, the removal of the implant, including the post-treatment, will be reimbursed by the health insurance companies. Patients can also claim compensation through the court if they are harmed by an implant: at the manufacturer if there is something wrong with the implant, for example a manufacturing error; at the notified body if it has not carried out a proper assessment of the implant and with the healthcare provider if it has made mistakes and can be held liable. I hope I have answered all of Mrs Agema's questions. I still have the questions of Mr Raemakers and Mr Rutte, and I have now answered a large number of the questions. Question one is from Mr. Raemakers of D66. According to this law, the manufacturer may no longer use the clinical data of another product to demonstrate that the product is safe and performing as intended. Does this requirement also apply to the registration of the development of an existing product? The answer is yes. How many tools are we talking about? We don't know exactly. We know that there are about 500,000 different tools on the market. In the future, with the arrival of EUDAMED, we will gain more insight into this. What's the timeline? The regulations provide for a transitional period. By May 2020, all low-risk medical devices will have to comply with the new stricter rules. The higher risk classes must then all meet the new requirements in stages. By 2024, all medical devices placed on the EU market will meet those stricter requirements. That categorization has already been shown. Then there was the question raised in Mr Rutte's speech: are there sufficient notified bodies? Are they sufficiently equipped to carry out their task of re-assessing all the resources? One concern is indeed the available capacity of the notified bodies. I share that concern. The rules for notified bodies have been tightened up with the coming of the regulation. All notified bodies are once again designated by the competent authorities to see if they meet the strict requirements of, among other things, independence and expertise. This is an intensive process, both for the notified bodies and for the competent authorities. This process is under way, and I promised you on 21 March that I will keep you informed of the progress. I will follow closely the issue of notified body capacity, together with European colleagues, but we also shared in the debate on 21 March that it is scarce capacity; it is a scarce resource. What about the independence, knowledge and expertise of the notified bodies? Those notified bodies will need sufficient qualified and independent staff. Can the Minister indicate whether this is already the case in each Member State? For the record, not every Member State has notified bodies. Notified bodies may only offer their activity if they meet strict requirements. Although a notified body is designated by a Member State, the designation path closely involves the European Commission and experts from other Member States. Notified bodies have a particular interest in carrying out a careful assessment. They are responsible for the certificates they issue. Notified bodies and their employees shall not give advice to manufacturers or be involved in the manufacture of devices, or have done so during the last three years. In addition, remuneration should not depend on the number of assessments carried out or their results. This is to keep the quality of the authorities in all countries at the same level. Finally, I would like to address a question from Mr Raemakers. The majority of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, devices used in laboratories, are classified into a higher risk class. Has the Minister received any signals that manufacturers will no longer be offering a product for this reason? If so, will there be sufficient alternatives on the market for those who need it? Is there also a risk that manufacturers will decide to restrict the supply of medical devices as a result of stricter quality requirements? And what does that mean for patients? It is true that the impact of the regulations is particularly significant for in vitro diagnostics. I would stress that the regulations are intended to increase patient safety. Rethinking the products by manufacturers is a matter of day-to-day importance and not just subject to regulatory changes. National and European stakeholders are currently working hard to ensure a smooth transition and implementation of the regulations, so that everyone is ready in time to comply with the new rules. I am structured in consultation with manufacturers, suppliers, healthcare providers and patient organisations. Part of this consultation is the timely reception of signals about possible changes in supply. I emphasise to healthcare providers and healthcare providers that they have a responsibility to talk to their manufacturers and suppliers. I hope I have answered the questions put by Mr D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u110	On the last point in particular, my question was also what the Minister can do for devices that are only used by a very small group of patients. You might expect manufacturers to think: well, we have very few patients, so we don't make those tools anymore. Does the government see that risk and is it recognised as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u111	Yeah, I see the risk, and I recognize it. I actually had this subject in Mr Rutte's folder, but I can also answer it in your direction. I spoke a few weeks ago with the three notified bodies active in the Netherlands about this issue to see if there is any possibility on the side of the nobos to give priority to their work. I asked them that in the conversation, and I sent them a letter after it. In the conversation it appeared to me that the notified bodies do not feel the space or that they have to think about whether there is room to put a certain priority in it. It may well be.... but now I am ahead of an answer that I still have to get from the notified bodies.... that they say that this is only possible on the basis of a message from my side, so I have to instruct the notified bodies to carry out certain work earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u112	That's clear when it comes to the notified bodies, but what about on the manufacturer's side? Would it be possible for a manufacturer to have fewer incentives in the future to stop making tools for relatively small patient groups, which would be a pity, of course?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr Raemakers has asked if I have any signs of that. That is not the case. However, I believe that the new regulation and all the work that is done by manufacturers mean that manufacturers will not now be offering some of their products for the new regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u114	Finally, Mr Rutte's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte's first question was: "I hear signals that notified bodies have a structural shortage of capacity and that this creates a potential shortage of crucial devices such as dialysis fluid. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he would like to enter into consultation with his European colleagues in order to create, if necessary, the possibility of using a perseverance force to give priority to the assessment of a device or implant in the event of a threat to national health." On the one hand, the answer I have indicated to Mr Raemakers is to do what is necessary at national level. In addition, I will also have a discussion with the European colleagues. I think it's important to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u116	Thank you very much for the Minister's commitment. In the previous written answer that was all a bit... well, it all seemed to be a bit complicated. The Minister just replied to Mr Raemakers that he had already had a conversation, which I very much welcome, with the notified bodies in the Netherlands to prioritise. They said that perhaps we can only do so if you, the Minister, would draw their attention to them. Is the Minister prepared to do so even before he has spoken to his European colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yeah, sure. I think that is a good thing: do not wait until after 23 May with the new European colleagues. We can do that sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u118	While we are doing so well, does the Minister have any ideas as to where people could go with such a report? Parties say: I really can't get through; I really get into trouble. Is there any place they could go with a report like that? Take, for example, the manufacturers of the dialysis fluid. They say everything's been full for two years, I really don't get in between them anymore and I get in trouble. Is there any way they can get that signal out of there? Is that possible with the IGJ or with another agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u119	Yes. Indeed, manufacturers can release that signal, or at the notified bodies, or at the IGJ. For a few years there has been a periodic, quarterly consultation with the notified bodies and the inspection at the table. And as you know, I take the liberty of inviting myself to that conversation sometimes. Mr Rutte also asked whether it was true that a university medical center could customize an implant for its own patients, as it is a custom-made implant or tool. The answer is yes, because the hospital does it all by itself. A CE certificate is not required if medical devices are made for one's own patients within a care facility and are used within that care facility. Where the healthcare provider transfers the tool to another legal person, such as another healthcare provider, the rules applicable to manufacturers shall apply. There are separate rules for manufacturers who make customised tools; there is no discussion about this. That was the one question. Now the other question: if a hospital has a medical device adapted by a manufacturer for use in its own patients, should a CE certificate be issued? There is still discussion in Europe as to whether a CE certificate is required in that case. A guidance document is currently being prepared to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u120	Those are clear answers in themselves. The question is: what does this mean in practice? Let me take the first example. One umc makes a customized tool and supplies it to another hospital. The Minister now says: the umc must obtain a CE certificate. This will not happen again in practice. At least, that's very unlikely. For example, is a solution that the treatment is transferred to the umc in question, so that without a CE certificate this device can still be manufactured and placed with the patient? Or does the Minister see other possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u121	This is what Mr Rutte is asking me about. I see the importance of the subject. We are talking here today about a law which is very much about the larger numbers of medical devices, but I also understand that there are and are made specific, tailor-made tools and that in practice there is a need for them on both sides, i.e. on the side of the healthcare professional and on the side of the patient. I therefore need to consider this in greater detail. I would like to think about it, but if I gave an answer now, that would be a general blow in the air. I'd rather not answer that. I reply in writing and I take this into account as far as I am concerned with the progress report mentioned above.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u122	I am also happy to accept that commitment. It may be appropriate to consider contacting the UMCs in particular on this issue. That's what I'm considering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u123	That's a great idea; I will. I have two further questions to answer from Mr Rutte. Is there a decision framework for dealing with known side effects of medical devices and implants? Mr Rutte knows that each profession makes its own clinical directive in which a decision framework for dealing with known side effects is an important part. I encourage the development, maintenance and implementation of quality policies, such as a directive and decision-making framework through quality funds for medical specialists. For example, the Dutch Society for Plastic Surgery is reviewing the directive on breast prosthetic surgery. All aspects that are important about the procedure are dealt with, so not just the intervention itself. A lot of attention is paid to safety, to the advantages and disadvantages, in this case of silicone breast implants, and to what needs to be discussed with the patient. So it's the profession first. If there are any defects in those clinical guidelines, the IGJ will be able to monitor them. And if necessary, the Healthcare Institute can also replace that profession and draw up the clinical guideline itself. That is the framework in which we work. Finally, the question was when an adverse reaction is part of the conversations and thus part of the decision-making process between the physician and the patient. As far as I'm concerned, always. I think it is a very important point that there is always talk of side effects in the conversation between the doctor and the patient. One of Mr Rutte's examples shows how difficult that is to decide together. An update is always the subject of conversation on the basis of the aforementioned WGBO. The WGBO already states that doctors should carefully inform patients about the purpose of a treatment, the likely effects, the risks to health, the alternative research and treatment methods, and the prospects for health. But it always remains a balance between the risks and the benefits of the implant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u124	I totally understand that last piece, but we are talking about the situation where an implant or a tool is available and can be used. Then you can weigh the risks and come together to the question: am I going to do this or not? Now, if we look at those macrotextured breast implants, the case that has been cited several times today, and we assume that the risks are known in themselves, which you can still differ on, there is clearly a time when the minister says "in this case it should not be available anymore, it should be available from the market and should not be used anymore" and another time he says "no, the risks must be mapped out; they are still part of conversation." As we are getting more and more of this kind of information thanks to this new legislation, do we have a good decision-making framework and a good way of working on these considerations? Or do we end up in debates like today's every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u125	This is a complicated question. On the basis of the Medical Devices Act and on the basis of the criterion "to prevent harm to public health," the inspection may take measures. That's one part. I have looked for some time, but Article 7 of the Medical Devices Act also allows the Minister to take action in the interests of public health. That is not so often used, but the case of the implants, I say it to Mr Rutte after the RIVM, depending on the interpretation of the RIVM, could give rise to the use of the legal framework that already exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u126	Okay. That's obvious. There is therefore already a legal framework whereby the Minister or the inspection can prohibit a particular implant. That's a good thing, because if it's dangerous, it should be. People need that authority. But what I am asking is whether, as we are probably going to know a lot more about side effects of the implants, a good balancing framework, we have a good decision-making framework to say "this really needs to be known in the office and can still be discussed there, after which patient and doctor can decide for themselves" or to say "now we have to ban." In my opinion, this legislation is changing the playing field and we need to rethink the decision-making frameworks to prevent us from working incredibly incident-driven and every time something goes wrong, standing here in this Chamber asking the Minister to ban or not. That seems very uncomfortable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u127	I think, for the time being, that we have an adequate framework with this legislation in hand and the working methods I have just outlined. But Mr Rutte's question triggers me, so I'm going to think for a moment whether a more comprehensive and visible framework can be created. Well, I'll take that as homework. Then I actually answered all the questions, except for one question from Mrs Ploumen. Imagine if a manufacturer joins the first notified body and thinks: well, that's not going well, can I do that again? This information will soon be placed in EUDAMED and will also be visible to others. Mr President, I hope that I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u128	Thank you very much for your answer. That is why we need the second term from the Chamber. I would like to suspend very briefly for a few moments. Then we will continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u129	We're gonna start with the second term of office. I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u130	Mr. Chairman. During this legal process, I wondered what the patients and those concerned would think of this debate. Would it make them happier? Do you think they'll be able to follow? And so on. I hope that they have been able to follow it and that they will eventually get some positive points out of it, so that the work we have done leads to something, in a positive sense. I myself had a negative association, namely the following. You want something, but the European regulation, which is very much dictating, forces us into a particular straitjacket, which actually blocks a lot of things that I would say will improve the law and ensure patient safety. I tried, anyway. I have tabled no less than five amendments and I also have a number of motions for resolutions. I hope that the Minister will see room to provide them with a positive association; we will hear it. I also have a question about something that triggered me in the discussion about the pelvic floor mats and the mesh patients. Does the Minister see any possibility of carrying out independent investigations into the current use of pelvic floor mats in this area? Is that even justified? I'd like an independent investigation, so apart from the doctors who use the mats in certain circumstances, to remove the unrest among the concerned patients. I hope that the discussion on compensation for the removal of breast implants will lead to success. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas some women who had high-risk implants placed were not aware of the possible consequences;]] [[Whereas the potential dangers are so great that France has prohibited macrotextured and polyurethane coated breast implants and the Dutch Minister has requested the Netherlands Society for Plastic Surgery (NVPC) not to use these implants pending the RIVM study;]] [[Whereas there must be a medical need for the removal of implants free of charge;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the principle that the Dutch suspension of the use of these risky implants is a medical necessity for reimbursement of the costs of preventive removal by the health insurance company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u131	Then there is a motion for a resolution on EUDAMED. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the publication of safety warnings in the European database EUDAMED is not sufficient as they are already publicly available on the website of the Health and Youth Inspectorate;]] [[Whereas both adverse reactions and emergencies and incidents involving implants should be publicly available in EUDAMED;]] [[Whereas a summary of the investigation is not sufficient and it is important that the full investigation is public;]] [[Whereas authorities in Europe sometimes keep research results secret;]] [[whereas, while the Regulation provides for the publication of both positive and negative research results, clinical studies are not published in EUDAMED outside the European Union;]] [[Notes that, in order to achieve maximum transparency, it is important that all information is publicly available in EUDAMED;]] [[and calls on the Government to make efforts to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u132	Then a final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Regulation provides an optional basis for delegation, on the basis of which Member States have the right to restrict the use of a specific type of device;]] [[Whereas, at present, a channeling system exists through delegation bases, which means that certain home-use tests which may have a significant impact on health, such as an HIV test, may only be provided by doctors and pharmacists;]] [[Whereas it is important to continue that scheme in view of the desirability of maintaining such transactions and the desirability of involving or possibly after-care by a doctor or pharmacist;]] [[points out that recourse to suppliers from outside Europe is not a reason to drop the scheme and calls on the Government to regulate this channeling scheme per AMvB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you. Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers to the questions. I have a number of motions, actually to establish with each other what the Minister has said and what we think. I very much hope for support for that. My first motion concerns the co-finding of population surveys. That's what I started my input with. The directive now states that any problems with implants are not reported to the general practitioner. That's what's on the web right now. That's why, just in case, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the secondary findings of the Directive state that any wear and/or leakage is not reported to the general practitioner;]] [[whereas the Directive is expected to be amended before the summer;]] [[calls on the Government, pending the Directive, to ensure that abrasion and/or leakage of breast implants is actively reported to the GP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. Then a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an increasing awareness of the adverse effects of breast implants;]] [[Whereas this leads to justified uncertainty in many women with breast implants and that this psychological burden may constitute a medical need for explantation;]] [[believes that women who want to have their breast implants removed should not be prevented from doing so because they have to pay for it themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that breast implants are also reimbursed if the doctor considers that the psychological burden constitutes a medical necessity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u137	Mr. Chairman. One last, very brief motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the success of the new European resource policy depends on the completeness of information in EUDAMED and accessibility for all,]] [[calls on the Government to press for this at European level and to keep the Chamber informed of the progress of negotiations on the implementation of EUDAMED,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the Minister. I am going to listen carefully to his answers again, because they are the basis of the advice I will give to my group to vote for the law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs Ploumen. I call Mrs van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister for all the answers, and for the fact that he is talking to the Patient Federation and the Consumers' Association to strengthen the complaint law and to establish an independent website. I just wanted to come back to the pelvic floor mats. The Minister says that they are only used exceptionally if there are no other options. I am pleased that the Minister is prepared to allow us to pass on the information we have from the field, because I am told, for example, that they are even going to be used as standard in stomas. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I found a recent investigation by the NZa and the ACM a bit disturbing. The Minister sent a letter about that. The research was about purchasing behaviour with regard to medical devices. It says that there are often rather strong links between manufacturers and doctors. This may lead to use that we did not mean with each other. I have two motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas orthopedics and cardiology have a quality record linking patient information and information on implants so that it is directly traceable which patient has which implant and when and by whom it has been inserted, and the LROI is willing not to make its system available to other associations;]] [[Whereas these registrations have led to fewer revisions, savings in healthcare costs and better quality of care;]] [[Whereas the national reporting point for adverse reactions is not yet linked to these quality records;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a link between registrations of the adverse reaction reporting point and quality records;]] [[calls on the Government to also engage with health insurers and scientific associations to set up quality registers for all implants in the inclusion list, if possible in accordance with a standard according to the "pass or explain" principle before the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr van den Berg, Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u141	Then the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are no clear guidelines for carrying out cosmetic interventions such as eyelid corrections;]] [[noting that this results in a diversity of the quality of the procedure and hygiene requirements of the treatment area;]] [[noting that there is also uncertainty as to the requirements of competence and competence for carrying out cosmetic interventions;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage with the relevant professional groups in order to agree on clear guidelines for carrying out cosmetic interventions and to inform the Court of Justice before the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u142	I would like to return to Mrs van den Berg's introduction. She said that unwanted behavior can occur if there is a financial interest between a doctor and a manufacturer of an implant. I have tabled an amendment which seeks to prohibit individual favours and conflicts of interest. How does the CDA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u143	I find what Mr Van Gerven says very far-reaching. As the Minister pointed out in another debate, the favour has been reduced and much more accountability has to be made. I am also thinking of the studies that often take place for which doctors make additional efforts. In order to ban it altogether, I am going too far at this stage. But it is good that there will be more transparency. This letter probably also appears in another debate. We are also curious about the sometimes strong links found in one third of the cases by the NZa and the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mrs Van den Berg recognises the risk that health care is not central. In the amendment, I would argue that it is not the individual doctor's appointment, but that it is up to the institution, for example, a university medical centre, so that it is a consideration of an institution and not the consideration of an individual doctor. Can the CDA live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u145	I would like to see the consequences first. There are doctors who are very well known for all the research they do. They have a huge position in the scientific world. I don't know what that would mean for the research and the expertise they have, because sometimes these doctors also work in multiple places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u146	Finally, the conclusion is that the CDA stops somewhere halfway again when it comes to preventing unwanted conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u147	I'd like to respond to that. It is said here that in a third of the cases there are strong links. This means that in two thirds of the cases there is no such finding. Now I know that in another debate recently it was said: perhaps only 1 in 100 bicycles are stolen but we lock all bicycles anyway. The point is that we also want to ensure that there is an atmosphere of trust in care and that there is a learning culture. Then you're not gonna help by just closing everything down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I call Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Looking back on the debate, I do not think it is sufficiently realised that there is a big difference between medicines and medical implants. I also notice this in the debates we have held here. With a cure, you can stop. If that drug has caused damage, it's very annoying, but at least you can stop. With an implant in your body, however, that is a completely different story. You're not just gonna take it out. You can't do that yourself. However, the ability of manufacturers to bring a medical implant to the attention of specialists who will then try it out is very great. Actually, a lot of people are medical guinea pigs. I think that the Minister's approach to the medical need is too strict. As an example, the breast prosthesis has passed several times. I myself came up with the example of the jaw implant. That's about six weeks in there, and it's kind of a bitch all the time. But, yeah, you can't prove that. If you then go back to the jaw surgeon to say that you actually want to get rid of that implant, because you find that thing very annoying and pressure it all the time on your jaw, which might still be like this next year, then the jaw surgeon says that there is no medical need for that, that he took a picture and it looks fine. Then what, I'll ask the Minister. Then it can be said that the doctor should have the last word because of medical need or that the patient should have the last word, but I think you should look at that less black and white. I think you should be able to take that patient's judgment with you in the case of those medical implants, because it doesn't just get rid of them. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an implant is basically lifelong in your body and that side effects or adverse health effects can always occur at any time;]] [[Whereas, as a patient, you should be able to decide at any time whether you want to retain or remove an implant, even if there are no complaints;]] [[noting that the removal of implants is now only reimbursed if there is a medical need;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the patient's judgement as a criterion for determining medical need,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35043-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u150	I had also asked a question that was not answered and it was about the pelvic floor mats, the mesh mats. Because they grow along with the body, those mats aren't easy to remove. Moreover, the complaints it causes are long-term and can last for a lifetime. I had asked the Minister about the treatment of these patients, whether they are actually being adequately helped and what his view is of the long-term treatment of people who are dealing with medical implants that are stuck and can no longer leave their bodies but which cause a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u151	Thank you. Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answer, for the exhaustive answers to all Members' questions. I do not have any amendments or motions, but I have three comments to make. First of all, I would like to comment on my question on the number of devices that now have to be re-examined. The minister's gonna stick to the figure of 500,000. It is very difficult to clarify that, and I understand that. We had also asked for a timetable. In particular, I have heard years today. I get that, too. It is not important for the Chamber either, I think, to know exactly what month everything is being tested, but it must all be done in the end. That's very important. My second comment concerns the independence between notified bodies and manufacturers. I have followed the debate with the other Members closely on this point. So we don't want the situation that a manufacturer can shop between different notified bodies. I was wondering what the deal was with informal contacts. That is very difficult to keep up with, and you do not understand that in a transparency register. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at this and how strict the rules are in this area. My third point concerns the tools for perhaps small groups of patients, which are of benefit to very few patients, but which are important for those patients. In the debate, you saw a lot of tension between, on the one hand, ensuring more protection for patients and, on the other hand, ensuring that there is sufficient innovation. Mr Arno Rutte also pointed this out. So I think that's a point to think about in the future: how do we also keep all the tools accessible to small patient groups? All in all, D66 thinks there's a good bill ahead. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u153	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Finally, Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u154	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to confirm that we had a good and well-balanced debate today on a very emotional subject, as was the case on 21 March. It is not often that the House of Representatives talks about implants and aids. It is very good that we have done so in such a short space of time, first of all in connection with all kinds of incidents and now with a legislative proposal which implements two very robust European regulations. Are they sturdy enough? Each group must consider whether it agrees or not. I don't have any motions. At first I thought I needed it, but the Minister has made a number of very important commitments, for which I thank him. I am extremely pleased that the Minister is talking to the umc's in the Netherlands to look at the problems surrounding the custom implants, to see how we can prevent them from becoming available to patients who are not being treated in an umc. That seems like a small problem, but that's a pretty big problem in the world of the umc's. It would be good to find a way in. I am also very grateful that the Minister is going to make a strong commitment at European level to look at the adjustments made to existing implants, and to tailor them to suit them. Should we or shouldn't we have a CE certificate? That must be clear, otherwise parties will not know what to do with it. As far as I am concerned, these small adjustments should preferably not lead to a new CE certificate, because that would also mean that they simply cannot be used anymore. And two years of waiting doesn't, of course, go with a treatment. Finally. There was a lot of attention today on the complex issue of macrotextured breast implants. I told you, this discussion is going to take place more and more often. Many thanks for the Minister's commitment to reflect on a robust and new balancing framework. I hope that will be there in the foreseeable future and that we will be able to take note of this in the Chamber. I think it is important to talk about that framework, to think about it with each other. I would like the Minister's undertaking that he will share that with the Chamber in due course. It is clear that the VVD will wholeheartedly support the bill as it stands, but it is also aware that the discussion is far from closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister needs fifteen minutes to prepare his response in second term. I hear he doesn't have all the amendments yet. We're gonna collect it for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u156	We're still working on the Medical Devices Act. I give the floor to the Minister for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you, Mr President. First in the direction of Mr Van Gerven. He has tabled a number of motions and a number of amendments. He also asked a question: is it not important to have independent research conducted into the use of pelvic floor mats so that unrest can be removed? I'd like to think about that question. I'd be happy to look into it with the aim of removing the unrest. I'd like to see what's still going on right now. I couldn't quite fix that in a quarter of an hour of suspension, but I'd like to respond to that. I'll inform your room of that by next month at the latest. Then there are the amendments. First of all, the amendment on item No. 10 on grace. It concerns the deletion of the phrase referring to a natural person. The idea is that favours can only be provided for services by institutions. I do not recommend this amendment because, as far as I am concerned, it is a brake on the development of new medical devices. In that case, the doctor may only provide services for the institution or university for which the doctor works. This means that there is no service for institutions other than the doctor's own institution. I believe that this is a fundamental limitation on the application and development of new medical devices. So it's undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u158	The amendment in part No. 10 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u159	Then there is the amendment to item No. 11, which is intended to make the framework law vbo's applicable to notified bodies. I would advise against that amendment. I assume that the idea of the author is that additional rules can be added with regard to notified bodies. I'm not for that. I'm trying to figure out the consequences of this. If we add too many rules for the notified bodies, they may leave the Netherlands. I wouldn't want that to happen. I prefer them in the Netherlands, under Dutch supervision. So I advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u160	I have another question for the Minister. I ask him whether he can do it, regardless of whether he is in favour of it or against it. Can this amendment simply be adopted despite the regulation adopted in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u161	That's not what I've been thinking about. I honestly thought that there had been technical consultations with the legal experts of my department on this amendment. But I'd be happy to find out. But I don't recommend the amendment. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u162	That is, of course, also important. Certainly, there has been technical consultation on the amendment. The notified bodies are now commercial, with a potential profit, and that has certain risks. I am trying to contain them with a number of amendments that I have tabled. All right, we need to point them out. That is a matter for the Minister or for the inspection. Then I say: put some extra conditions around it, so that you can steer it better and intervene if things go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u163	Of course, I should have known better. If the department's legal experts have helped in drafting the amendment and the amendment is here, I should have assumed that I would have liked to say that the amendment is technically possible. But I am not in favour of it for the reasons mentioned above. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u164	The amendment in part No. 11 is not recommended. Then there is the amendment to item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u165	The amendment in part No. 12 is about setting up a medical device assessment college. I do not recommend that amendment, given the route that is being followed with medicines. The role of the CBG is a different one than we are discussing here this afternoon. The regulations are here in a context of European regulation. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u166	The amendment in part No. 12 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u167	Then we have the amendment to item No. 13. I would advise against that amendment. The amendment aims to remove the legal burden of using a defective medical device from the patient and lay it down with the doctor or institution. If a producer is blamed, it is up to the doctor and the institution to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u168	The amendment in part No. 13 is therefore also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u169	Yes, because it goes against product liability law, whereby the producer must be held liable for mistakes made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u170	I believe that the Minister's conclusion is incorrect. The producer's liability simply stands. What I intend to do with this amendment is to reaffirm the responsibility and liability of the physician, as already stated in the Civil Code in Article 6:77.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u171	We exchanged that in the debate. I've been talking about the side-suitability. The nail producer can be addressed, and the carpenter. But the amendment looks primarily at the aid provider. I do not think that order fits in with the regime of product liability law as we know it. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u172	We have the Van Gerven amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u173	I thought I'd run out of stuff. I do not have the text of that amendment here, but I would like to add it. In the meantime, I am going to give an opinion to Mr Van Gerven's motions, first of all the Van Gerven/Ploumen motion on item No. 15, in which the government is asked to apply the principle that the Dutch suspension of the use of these risky implants is a medical necessity for the reimbursement of the costs of preventive removal by the health insurance provider. I do not feel in favour of this, and I say this in view of other motions that are still before us in order to colour that concept of'medical necessity'. That's up to the profession. They need to color that understanding, not me. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u174	The Van Gerven/Ploumen motion in part No. 15 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u175	In the operative part of the Van Gerven/Ploumen motion to item No. 16 states that in order to achieve maximum transparency, it is important that all information is publicly available in EUDAMED and calls on the government to make efforts to do so. This is all about information. I have just given an example of information that gives rise to research into certain manufacturers. As far as I am concerned, that kind of information should not be public. However, having said that, I agree that we must strive as much as possible to achieve and work on it, and I too am moving towards Europe to ensure that public information is placed in EUDAMED. If I may read the motion in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u176	The motion in part No. 16 gets "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u177	The Van Gerven/Ploumen motion in part No. 17 I do not recommend, because I do not expect a practical result from the ruling contained in this motion. The concerns of the SP, the impact of a possible negative result, are not prevented by maintaining the channeling system. After all, a self-test is carried out without the presence of a health care professional. If the self-test reveals a negative result, the patient may seek medical attention. Of course, a patient can always choose to have a test carried out by a healthcare professional instead of a self-test. It remains possible, even without the channeling system. That is why I do not think it is necessary to continue the channeling scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u178	The motion in part No. 17 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u179	The motion in part No. 18 has been tabled by Mrs Ploumen and calls on the Government to ensure, pending the directive, that wear and/or leakage of breast implants is actively reported to the GP. I thought I had argued in the debate that there was already an active obligation to report visible wear, because of course it is necessary for that screening radiologist to see that something is going on and that this is being reported. This motion is intended to ensure that the process at RIVM, where these screening radiologists work, works well in practice towards the general practitioners. If I may explain this motion in such a way that I bring both parties to the table and say to them 'you must pay attention to this, because this is important', I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u180	The motion in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u181	The motion in part No. 19 I recommend, because I do not want to paint the concept of'medical necessity', as I said earlier in the direction of Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u182	I have, of course, heard that argument from the Minister, but this motion is actually asking for nothing more than that the cabinet should guarantee that the doctor's judgment is correct. Actually, it fits, so to speak, right in the direction of the Minister. It does not ask the Minister to give a judgment or to qualify that judgment. It only asks: if the doctor comes to the judgment "medical necessity" on the basis of psychological stress, will the minister guarantee that that is also a guiding factor? In fact, it calls for confirmation of the words of the minister himself. In that sense, it's just something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u183	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u184	My objection is against the remark: to ensure this. I have always said all afternoon: it is important not to put the government at the centre of attention here, but to put the professional at the heart of the matter, so that the doctor and his profession choose what is covered by'medical necessity' with their professional rules. I would like to leave it at that and therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u185	Let's just call it man and horse. The fear of me and my co-sponsors is, of course, that a doctor comes to the judgment "medical necessity because of psychological suffering" and that the health insurance provider says: yes, girl, that is not going to happen. I would like the Minister to say at that point: no, the agreement is that the doctor's judgment on medical necessity is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u186	If such a situation arises, I would like to know. But I said both yesterday and today that I think it is important that the medical necessity is the criterion and that it is up to the professionals and the profession. They have to choose that. So I'm sticking to the judgment of "dissuade emotion."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u187	The motion in part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u188	This motion considers that the completeness of the information in EUDAMED is crucial for the success of the new European resource policy. The motion then called on the government to press for this at European level and to keep the Chamber informed about the progress of negotiations on the implementation of EUDAMED. The motion is therefore, in fact, twofold: continue to insist that as much as possible be made public and that the confidential part of EUDAMED be kept small. I think that would be fine, Mr. Chairman, and therefore the Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u189	The motion in part No. 20 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u190	The motion in part No. 21 calls on the Government to engage with health insurers and scientific associations in order to establish quality registers for all implants in the inclusion list, if possible in accordance with a standard according to the principle of "application or explanation." I have previously welcomed the position that I would like to discuss with that scientific association the importance they attach to a quality register, because that is a new administrative burden. So I am fine with that "going into conversation," but the result does not always have to be a quality register as far as I am concerned, if that is a lot of administrative ballast and if the result can be achieved in a different way. That is how I put it on 21 March. So I want to see what's possible to establish the link with data that's in the different registers. The aim is to find a solution, but I'd like to take a swing at the arm. So my position is a little more cautious than the motion asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u191	The previous motion didn't say "pass or explain." We then held that motion at the Minister's request. We're gonna rescind that motion. We would like to put this motion to the vote. The term "apply or explain" gives a bit of space. There may be circumstances at a specific scientific association which makes it say: I'm not going to solve it this way, but in a different way. So the Minister has some freedom in that. But the aim must be to work towards a registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u192	Okay. It is, of course, the professionals who make quality registers, but if I may interpret the term 'apply or explain' in this way, I am happy to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u193	The motion in part No. 21 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u194	The motion in part No. 22 invites the Government to engage with the relevant professional groups, with the aim of agreeing clear guidelines for carrying out cosmetic interventions and informing the Court of Justice before the end of 2019. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The development of the quality framework of cosmetic medicine led by the Healthcare Institute is taking a good step in this direction and I would like to see with the parties whether additional steps are needed and to inform you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u195	The motion in part No. 22 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u196	The motion in part No. 23, I advise. The motion calls on the government to consider the patient's judgement as a criterion in determining medical need. No, Mr President, I say it again: it is up to the professional to colour the concept of "medical necessity." I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u197	The motion in part No. 23 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u198	I have one more amendment, the one on item No. 14. I'd advise against that. The first part of the amendment is superfluous. The regulation already provides for the obligation to publish both positive and negative research results in EUDAMED. The amendment does not add anything, because this obligation already exists. The second part of the amendment is undesirable because it puts the doctor and other caregivers in an impossible position. I've promised that caregivers will be required to report an incident to the inspection shortly. I will submit a letter of amendment to that effect. The amendment goes further and looks at the direct disclosure of an incident. This amendment puts the doctor in an impossible position. If he is required to make an incident public, he could become more reluctant to use medical devices. Also, a doctor will think three times before reporting an incident, because he is at risk of liability for false reporting of an incident. On the contrary, I want to keep the reporting of incidents at a low threshold. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u199	Thank you. I'm looking at the members. Are there any outstanding questions? One more question that has not been answered by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u200	A question I asked in my first and second term, about people who suffer from a medical implant, such as pelvic floor mats, and who become long-term pain patients. What about them? What is the Minister's view on this? How many people is that? I just want information about patients who suffer from long-term pain from medical implants that have something wrong with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u201	I thought Mrs Agema's question was more specific and was about people who are still experiencing adverse effects from pelvic floor mats. That is actually the same answer I gave to Mr Van Gerven. I would like to think about whether further research is needed in order to remove the unrest, and I would also like to add the factual information that Mrs Agema is asking for. You must give me the opportunity to think about what is already going on in research, because it is not so easy to grant research. But I'd be happy to give you a letter on that by next month at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u202	Thank you very much. We have thus come to the end of the treatment of the Medical Devices Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-9.u203	The amendments and motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and suspend the sitting until 6:40 p.m. In addition, I have to say that the Registry Plenair is currently doing everything possible to go ahead. If that works, you will be informed later.
