ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall continue with oral Question Time. We begin with Mr Raemakers of D66's question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment about the message "GD confirms: Fourth child infected with measles in The Hague's daycare center." Mr Raemakers has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of parents are worried about their child's safety. Yesterday it was announced that a fourth child was infected with measles at a daycare center in The Hague. Last week there was a report that three children were infected with measles. So it makes sense that a lot of parents in The Hague, but also in the rest of the Netherlands, are worried and wonder: is our child safe in child care? Mr. Chairman. The problem is that children under 14 months of age in the Netherlands are not vaccinated against bmr (mumps, measles and rubella). But these young children can be infected by other older children if those older children have not been vaccinated. We have seen where that can lead in other countries of Europe. Last year dozens of people died from measles in Europe. Here in the Netherlands, too, someone died from measles in 2013-2014. So it makes sense that parents are very concerned. That is why I have the following questions to Secretary of State Van Ark. Have all the parents of children at the nursery where the infection has taken place been informed? And not only these parents are worried; also parents who have a child at another daycare center are worried. Are these parents also informed that their daycare has not been affected and is therefore still safe? What is the Secretary of State doing to keep the daycare homes in the Netherlands safe? What measures does it intend to take? Finally, does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that we should be able to refuse unvaccinated children at child care, and that the law should be amended if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Raemakers for his questions, which concern legitimate concerns. I also saw the mother at Jinek yesterday, who, as far as I'm concerned, put the finger on the sore spot by indicating the ultimate dilemma, namely the right of someone not to vaccinate versus the right of your child to grow up in a healthy environment. I think it is right that we have this question here, the debates and also Mr Raemakers' own-initiative law, because I understand the concerns that there are very well. Mr Raemakers had a number of specific questions. Have the parents of children at the relevant daycare center in The Hague been informed? Yes, they are. If there is an outbreak or case of measles, a daycare center is obliged to report it and the GGD gets to work. In doing so, they contact all the parents of the children of the daycare center, give antibodies to children under six months of age and vaccinate the children between six months and 14 months of age. This means that if you are not informed about such a situation, you can assume that there is no measles at the nursery in question. When it comes to measures to be taken, I say in advance that I would like to fight with the Chamber to bring this situation to an end, and that is why I am not ruling out any measure. At the same time, it listens very closely to what measures are effective. My colleague from VWS has taken all kinds of measures to increase the vaccination rate. Mr Raemakers has tabled an initiative law, and I have set up a committee because all kinds of dilemmas emerge from this question. I really want the key we're looking for with each other to actually fit the door we need. This means that, although I also feel the urgency and urgency and want to make it urgent, I would like to await the committee's proposal so that I can include it in the opinion I am giving to the Chamber on the initiative law tabled by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I think it is very good that at least all the parents of children in the affected daycare centre have been informed. If you follow that reasoning, it is also logical that other parents at other daycare centres know that their care has not been affected. But I still have the next problem. Imagine having a seven-month-old child who is not at the shelter at the moment, wanting to choose a childcare location for your child as a parent, and then you would end up at the affected children's center. My question to the Secretary of State is whether you will be told as a parent: beware, at this shelter there was an outbreak. Or isn't that information provided? I think that is a very important question. The Secretary of State also reports that the committee is currently investigating what is possible. That committee was asked by the Secretary of State to report by 1 May at the latest. I would very much like to ask whether the committee will be able to do so, also because the institutional decision states that there can be interim reports by the committee. The Secretary of State set up this committee in December. So I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State whether, between December and now, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 6, it has already been informed by that committee of any interim findings and what is to be said about them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	When an outbreak of measles is over, the risk is also over. If a child is then notified, there is no risk of infection, because then the outbreak is over. But that does not alter the fact that, at the time of a daycare center, there is a situation in which the GGD is involved, of course information goes to parents. I have indeed asked the committee to report on this before 1 May, because I too feel this haste. I had a conversation with the chairman of the committee last week. It indicates that many medical, ethical and legal dilemmas are emerging behind these questions. I would also very much like to advise the Chamber on this, because I would like something that works and what also perpetuates, even if you go to a judge, for example. The chairman of the committee asked for a postponement until 1 July. I have indicated the urgency of myself and of the Chamber, but she has informed me and, as I understand it, the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	I would like to come back to that child, who is now, for example, seven or eight months and who is now being registered for a childcare facility, because the Secretary of State says that when the outbreak is over, there will be no danger. But that outbreak is here now. Yesterday it became known that a fourth child was infected with measles. If you want to make a choice as a parent today, then that outbreak is still there, isn't it? On the question of the postponement of the committee, I would very much like to know the reasons for this committee. This cabinet has been talking about this problem for years. There's been research going on for years. It's just time to kick some ass right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	If the outbreak is still there, parents will of course be informed. Let's just be very clear about that, too. So I'd like to take that care away. As far as the work of the committee is concerned, I fully share the urgency. The committee also shares this urgency, but it is tough, tough matter. There are complex dilemmas behind this and we just want to get this right. If we want to get it right, I sometimes think to myself, when it comes to this: have we forgotten how recently it was that we saw those horrible images of a lot of children, including in the Netherlands? So Mr Raemakers is right to fight for this, but against all those parents who are still in doubt or who have not done it, I would also like to say now: help us to increase that vaccination rate, help us to make the work of the committee possible, but above all help all those children who may be in unsafe situations and, for heaven's sake, have your child vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	Last week I asked here in this Chamber for a debate on this measles outbreak. That debate was actively blocked by D66. We had to do it with a letter. He came on Wednesday, too. I actually hear the Secretary of State say nothing here but what was in that letter. That's how it works here, well, in this house. My question to the Secretary of State is: how are the children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	I cannot comment on this, other than that the health services are closely involved and that the children are being treated and are now under supervision. So I cannot make any further comments on this, other than what comes through the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	By now, four children have been infected, and that is worrying. I can very well imagine that parents who take their child to a daycare center are very concerned. At the same time, it is a pity that Mr Raemakers really only focuses on those daycare centres, because the real problem is, of course, that there is a growing number of children who could have been vaccinated and have not been vaccinated. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she agrees that it is a question of ensuring that as many children as possible who can be grafted are also grafted. Does she agree with me that it is necessary for the Cabinet to respond to this Chamber's appeal to the Secretary of State for Health to investigate what other methods are in place to increase the vaccination rate? Think, for example, of no longer granting child-related supplements to parents who do not vaccinate their child or refuse compulsory admission to schools of children who have not been grafted. Would the cabinet like to conduct that investigation as soon as possible and send it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	The VWS colleague is indeed working hard on this. I actively help him where I can and where I also have puzzle pieces to offer a solution for this. One of the things Mr Veldman has indicated is not to shy away from any means. We're working on that, too, as a matter of urgency, because I understand the concerns very well. It's okay if we get a quick look at a solution, and parents, as I just mentioned, have a lot of them in their hands too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	The law that D66 has put forward is actually proposing that two types of nursery should be created in the near future. There will be a category of nurserys where you are legally vaccinated and a category of nurserys where only a limited part or a majority is not vaccinated. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. Does she not think that if this proposal is introduced in this way, we will create new fireplaces? We will then have daycare centres where an even greater proportion of the children have not been vaccinated. If there were an outbreak there, the risks of disease and a great deal of misery would be even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	What I have just indicated is that there are many dilemmas behind this issue, including legal dilemmas, but certainly also medical and ethical dilemmas. It is not appropriate for me at the moment to enter into all kinds of discussions which the committee is currently examining. But it is precisely for this reason and for this type of dilemma that I think it is important to include what the committee says about this in the opinion I will give to the Chamber from the government on that initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	It's 2019 and we're dealing with a measles outbreak. Quite bizarre and unnecessary, as the Secretary of State says. I imagine a lot of parents are worried about their kid at daycare. I can also imagine that not every parent looks at the oral questioning or reads the Chamber letters, so where can parents go with their concerns? I can very well imagine that there are questions, so where can they go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	They can, of course, go to their daycare center, which also actively follows the information and is involved by the GGD if there are such situations. They can of course also contact the GGD, because the GGD has the medical overview and also knows about the current situation. Of course, we all follow the news closely through the media. But especially if there is a specific situation, I would say: at the daycare center and the health center.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you.
