ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr Wassenberg's question on behalf of the Animal Party is now before the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the police, who demand a ban on fireworks. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also congratulate you on your award of Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	So now we actually have two knights in the Chamber. You're not the first; we have two now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Every year, hundreds of old and new victims are killed by fireworks. Among those victims are many children, but also aid workers and agents. "The most unsafe party of the year" called the Safety Research Council the turn of the year. The council therefore recommended banning fireworks and flares. Also Chief of Staff Erik Akerboom of the national police wants a ban on fireworks and flares and he believes that citizens and agents should be better protected. Fire department, paramedics and paramedics, they all want a ban. And yet the Minister of Justice and Security is not behind the police and the emergency services, but rather refusing to ban fireworks. While the recommendations of the OVV are normally adopted one-on-one, all kinds of semi-soft measures are now being proposed, such as standard firing arrows and fuse selling or throwing everything over the fence at the municipalities. But the Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten asks for a national ban and the mayors of Amsterdam, Utrecht, Rotterdam and The Hague all want a national ban. So don't throw the problem over the fence of the municipalities, because that only leads to the relocation of misery. Moreover, enforcement becomes extremely difficult, because certainly in the Randstad one municipality passes seamlessly into another, making it impossible for the police to enforce. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. As far as traffic deaths are concerned, zero killing is the goal. How many fireworks kills and wounds must there be before the minister really acts? Why is the Minister in the wind of the recommendations of the OVV and of the national police? Why doesn't the minister just stand squarely behind the police and agree with me that it is difficult for enforcement that each municipality can have its own policy, especially when municipalities are bordering each other? And is the Minister prepared to ban flares and fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After congratulating you, also on behalf of the cabinet, I will immediately make the clear statement that with the signatories of the advertisement to which Mr Wassenberg refers, I believe that the turn of the year should be safe and festive for everyone. For me, the safety of the aid workers is absolutely paramount. I very much appreciate the fact that last week, in great cooperation, I unanimously voted in favour of a draft law on penalising the obstruction of aid workers. At least that's how we're gonna get on. Last year, your Chamber voted for the motion that would allow a municipal ban to be imposed and not for a national ban on fireworks. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State and I have conducted research into the experiences of police and municipalities on the progress of the social debate on the turn of the year, on fireworks purchases and fireworks use and on the effects of the launch standard on injury rates. During meetings, I spoke extensively with large groups of representatives of all parties involved at the turn of the year: from mayors, youth workers, aid workers and enforcers to scientists, fireworks vendors and medics. I've spoken to dozens of aid workers face to face in that context. The Secretary of State and I are now examining whether the evaluations and the proceeds of those meetings should lead to additional measures. We expect to be able to send the letter to your Chamber in June. Recently, the progress papers relating to the municipal ban that will enter into force next year have been sent to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Minister will not answer my question. My main question is: why is the most important advice of the OVV, which is now supported by the national police, not taken over? The minister says, "We're gonna go after whoever did this afterwards." But that's not the point. Does the Minister agree with me that prevention is better than cure? Does he agree with me that an approach is fine afterwards, but that we should avoid violence against the police? A ban on fireworks and flares contributes to this. Not only does the Animal Party think so, but the OVV and the national police agree so. The only measure that everyone is asking for is a ban on fireworks and flares. There will be an evaluation anyway, but it has already been postponed. So we simply need to take measures as soon as possible to prevent us from seeing the following reports in the newspapers every year in the annual changes to 2020 and immediately to 2021: hundreds of wounded, one or two dead. We've got a show to do. We have to act now. We need to take measures, real measures, namely a ban on fireworks and flares. That's what the Minister is all about. It revolves around the hot stuff. He says what the Cabinet has done. These are all measures that do not really matter. The only real measure is a ban on fireworks and on ornamental arrows. Everyone agrees on this: all the experts, the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm not gonna beat around the bush. The Chamber, the Secretary of State of IenW and I discussed in detail last June, inter alia, the report of the Research Council for Security. I have just indicated the outcome of that debate to you. I announced at the beginning of this year that I felt that some of the incident figures that came to us in the first few weeks of January now needed a thorough, detailed evaluation. I explained this in detail in a letter to you. As has already been said, the letter in which we will discuss these figures and will indicate how the government views them in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	I insist on the Minister turning around and chasing the facts. We've seen the ad from the national police very recently. National police don't put an ad every week. Apparently, this is a cry for help. So it's national police high. It's high on us, too. My question to the Minister was how many people have to die before any real action is taken. Those must be measures that really work, so not delivering a fuse, a glasses or a standard. The measures must really work, because there are a lot of innocent victims. It's not just the ones who light it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	I refer once again to the fact that we are coming up with a letter in June. In consultation or after discussion with your Chamber, more measures have indeed been taken than just a safety shot here or there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr President, first of all we would like to congratulate you on the high French award. Très bien!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	Then I'm addressing the Minister about the fireworks. If the Animal Party and the SGP agree on something touching and if the investigation board and the police chief of police agree, then something really is going on. Then something must be done. That's right here, around the fireworks. It can't go on like this! My concern is: isn't it gonna be a little padding and wet? It's gonna take more than that around the flares. We heard that last year. The minister said last year he was going to evaluate it right away. He said, "We're gonna look at injuries." Now I hear it's gonna be June. Are we really going to take necessary steps before the coming year? Can this still be taken into account in the draft amendment to the Fireworks Decision that is now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	First of all, Mr Van der Staaij and I agree on this: paping and wet-keeping is an excellent means of rendering fireworks harmless. But apart from that, I would like to point out that there is a measure that was adopted by a large majority by your Chamber last year by way of a motion, in order to make it possible for a ban to be imposed on each municipality. It is being worked hard to get it across all the procedural channels, so that we can do so before this turn of the year. Furthermore, I repeat that a letter will be sent in June. That is not a question of the proverb that Mr Van der Staaij just quoted, but this is because those evaluations, precisely because they are deepened, took a little more time than I must admit, I thought in all my passion at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr President, I am not going to congratulate you, because I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	You already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	I already have. Well, look, you took the words out of my mouth. Then I'll turn to my question to the Minister. As far as my group is concerned, safety in the streets is the best thing for citizens, but also for the police. Then the Minister comes up with all kinds of legislative proposals, for example on the obstruction of aid workers. But the police have to maintain this. And it is she who says, "Come with a ban." Let us leave aside what my group thinks of that. The minister says he's coming with a letter. But it's quite extraordinary that such a call comes from the police. So, on behalf of my group, I would like to ask the Minister the following. There's gonna be a letter. I'm sure it's full of official language, but is there a separate, clear passage in there about how this emergency call from the police is handled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	I don't even have to admit it, because I was planning to go into the advertisement in the letter in non-official language. I'm responsible for the police. But that also means that I am responsible to them. Then I think I should at least respond to that letter, which was not only on behalf of the police, but also on behalf of mayors and a large number of other institutions. I believe that it is part of good governance or responsibility that I say something about this in the letter, so here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	In advance, Mr President, for my fellow Members, I should like to say that I do not congratulate you, because I was at the happy moment yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yeah, that was really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	So I was able to convey those congratulations yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	I'm not gonna get 150 congratulations, am I? Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	It is also well deserved; we can see that. Here's what I want to say. If drivers and enforcers ask for this and are here in the Chamber at least four parties in favour, the Party for Animals, the SGP, GroenLinks and 50PLUS. and I now also see doubts at the PVV. it would be nice if the Minister would send a signal that something is really going to happen, because those merchants in fireworks must now make their orders. That stuff's from Asia. I think these people need to know now whether it's going to happen or not. So don't wait any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	In any case, let me begin by saying that this signal must come from the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State. We have to do that very well... Otherwise, I'd be running out of powers here. But I would like to stress to Mr Krol that I am very concerned about the safety of aid workers. I understand very well that he's asking me about that. However, as has already been said, a letter from the cabinet will be sent in June to respond to the evaluations that are currently being completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr President, I would very much like to congratulate you, but I also wonder who was the first to receive this award. Actually, I've been stuck with that since that remark, but I'm gonna find out later through Wikipedia. Congratulations, though. I hear the Minister say that he is responsible for good governance and that this is important. He's talking about responsibility. At the same time, I see that the cabinet is making proposals which are not really good for the local administrators, for the police who have to enforce them. Then my question is: why is he making this proposal? In my view, it is above all that the Minister does want to keep tabs and wet, and to move away from the difficult decisions. That is why he is now coming up with a solution that nobody wants at local level, but which at least ensures that the Minister does not have to take a decision in the short term that goes beyond what the coalition believes is desirable. But good governance has little to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	I don't know about a proposal I would have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think it is about the proposal that can be considered at local level if you have a fireworks ban. And according to a lot of mayors, that is not enforceable because it will work out differently in one municipality than in the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	That is a motion of an overwhelming majority of your Chamber that I am carrying out. The Secretary of State is talking about it, and I take responsibility for it, of course, but it is a motion by the majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	No, no, you just explained your question. So if you ask another question now, you're through. I can't believe you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you. This is important. In any case, I understand that the Minister is keeping it open here and that he may be able to go further than that motion and that there may indeed be a national ban on fireworks, which I hope will be. I have the next question. The Minister says that the security of aid is paramount. But mayors and the chief of police say that in order to achieve that, it is necessary that there be a national ban. Is the Minister prepared to look at that and, if not, why is there a difference between how the mayors want to maintain national security and how the minister wants to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	But those are mayors who are under this ad. Last year, we discussed in your Chamber that, as indicated by the Association of Dutch Municipalities, there are a large number of mayors who think differently and who are therefore not under this advertisement. Once again, this is all part of the democratic process. The letter's coming. I would certainly like to say on behalf of the Secretary of State that we are happy to discuss this with the Chamber, but last year this was the outcome of the democratic process. That does not mean that the safety of emergency workers is my responsibility and that I can send as much as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	If I can quote Mr Van der Staaij in agreement, I am happy to do so. It doesn't happen very often, but when it happens, it's worth it because the Party for Animals and the SGP are in total agreement on this. The Minister says: I am carrying out the motion that the Chamber has asked for widely. But the Minister must not only carry out the motion, he must also guarantee security. This motion is about a ban on fires per municipality, but municipalities themselves and the police say that this is not going to work because when it comes to municipalities bordering on each other it is very difficult to enforce. A police van drives through a municipality and crosses the city line and the cops don't know if there's a firework ban there or not at the time. That's very complicated. Does the Minister agree with me that this ban on fireworks per municipality can be very unnecessarily complicated for the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	No, I fear I do not agree with Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Christian Union Group, I should like to congratulate you on this fine award.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	Then let's go to that fireworks tradition. That tradition is not with a large group of people throwing fireworks at policemen, with no distinction between legal and illegal fireworks. That tradition is also not hundreds of people every year in the emergency room, where in half of the cases legal fireworks are the cause of the problems. The police are making a compelling appeal this week to us and to the minister. We are used to the Minister giving firm back to his people, but at this point it sometimes seems to be left behind. So my question to the Minister is next. Is this appeal also a reason for him to reconsider his position, including what we discussed with him democratically last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	Of course, the motion of ChristenUnion and D66 on the municipal bans on fireworks was filed in June 2018. We have now carried out evaluations and come forward with a cabinet letter. I have already stated that, of course, the Secretary of State and I are prepared to hold another debate with your Chamber if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr President, thank you, and I shall skip something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	Dan's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	What the VVD is intriguing is the fact that the analysis we have read shows that most situations with regard to aid workers, which we also believe should be left alone, are caused by the use of illegal fireworks. Now a number of parties in the Chamber are asking the Minister to ban a lot of things. We are not in favour of this until we are absolutely certain that there would be a sec and only that illegal fireworks would be maintained and that this would be reduced. You'd be a long way by then. Does the Minister explicitly include this consideration in his letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	The letter certainly includes the subject of illegal fireworks. Maybe a nice fact: this year, the police seized 56,000 kilos of illegal fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	This is my second and final question; I know that, Mr President. The Minister said that we talked to the Chamber last June about that report from the Security Research Council. But the OVV responded to the main conclusions in November 2018, six months ago. The OVV literally writes: the only way to adequately protect citizens from this danger is to remove the source of fireworks. The council also writes that he sees no benefit in leaving this decision to individual municipalities, because every citizen deserves the same level of protection. Can the Minister explain why he does not agree with these comments from the OVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	Those things are a little more complicated, I guess. The advertisement also contains a phrase "I paraphrase," because I do not have the advertisement in front of me which shows that the signatories of the ad also find that fireworks are part of the new year. So that means that as a society we find that there is something festive like the turn of the year or something special like the SAIL party in Amsterdam that I can remember. I think safety is the most important thing, and I am primarily concerned with the safety of aid workers. Once again, in the June letter we come back to these points, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	Congratulations on my behalf, too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	This minister is the minister of and for the police. He's the chief of police. So I find it remarkable that the police have to communicate with this minister through advertisements in the newspaper. What conversations were there? How is it that the great concerns that the police have and which she feels should be expressed through an advertisement in the newspaper have been so little heard in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	I cannot answer that last part of the question, because that assumes that there has been little response to these concerns in the Ministry. I'll fight that. I'm sure there was a hearing for that. I would like to touch on the question of whether it was put in such a way or whether I can indicate whether we have responded to it. Yeah, I do. This is a subject that comes back to me 12 months a year. Especially after last year's turn of events, I indicated quite quickly that we should carry out these in-depth evaluations and not sit still. We should not stick to the question of whether there are 200 or 180 incidents, but we should see what comes out of it. I also had talks with the police about this, but more importantly, I took the initiative for a number of town hall meetings. There I was among a group of 100 to 150 aid workers and I had a very free discussion with them about what they thought and experienced of the problem. The chief of police has told me that there would be an advertisement from a number of mayors, the police and a number of other agencies; I do not know exactly who the signatories are. I must tell you that there are differences of opinion, but I respect that. I believe that my Chief Constable should be able to stand up for his people and express what he considers important in that context. This is how Mr Akerboom and I deal with each other: we have a habit of saying to each other what we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you.
