ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u1	We will continue the debate on the amendment of the Long-Term Care Act to provide access to this law for people who, due to mental illness, are in permanent need of permanent supervision or care 24 hours a day nearby, under number 35146.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u2	The next item is the reply by the government in the first place. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about access to the Law on long-term care for people with mental illness. That's a special moment with a long history. The first speaker, Mrs Bergkamp, also reminded us of this in her speech. I think that she and Mrs Keijzer deserve the credit for putting this on the agenda so clearly. It has taken a while before we stand here, but fortunately we stand here, and we hope to have a good discussion with each other today here in this Chamber. For me, the added value this proposal has for people with mental illness is central. These are people with different backgrounds. These people have in common that they are permanently dependent on permanent supervision or 24 hours of care nearby. For example, someone who has schizophrenia or autism, a classic psychiatric patient, combinations of a mental disorder with, for example, a mildly understandable disability, but can also be thought of specific diseases or syndromes such as Huntington, Korsakov or Gerontopsychiatry. Because the foundation lacks mental disorder in the Wlz, these people do not yet have access to the Wlz. I remember when I was alderman, in that position I was also quite excited about it with fellow aldermen. The moment I got excited about that, I couldn't imagine that I'd be defending a law here right now to settle it. But again, the credits go first and foremost to Mrs Bergkamp, who pushed this hard. The only exception currently in the law for people with mental illness is those staying in a clinical setting and using continued residence. That's about 5,000 people in the country. In the current situation, clients also receive care and support from the Wmo and from the Health Insurance Act. The objective of this care and support is often recovery-oriented. The aim is for the client to be able to function independently in the long term. The target group of this bill concerns those people who cannot and cannot be expected to return to full independence. These are people who have insufficient or no direction in many areas of life and who do not have sufficient problem-solving capacity in their daily functioning or who do not ask for help. In order to have regular discussions about the impossibility or the ability to participate independently, there is a great deal of concern when these clients need security and stability. This is also widely recognised by the Chamber. The social gain of this proposal is for me in a few things. One is appropriate care for clients with mental impairment whose return to full independence cannot and should not be expected. Two: when determining the Wlz indication, the CIZ can take into account the overall picture, including the mental impairment of the limitations and the severity and persistence of the need for care resulting from it. Three is removing a significant part of the current bottlenecks at the borders of the systems we know: Health Insurance Act, Wlz and Wmo, and perhaps we will be talking about the Youth Act as well. The step we are taking today in dealing with the legislative proposal is therefore an important milestone. In addition, it is important to work with all those involved for a good and careful implementation of the legislative proposal. I too had to blink a few times when I saw how long it takes to be careful, but we also agree that if we aim at 2021, that is careful. That is why I have drawn up an implementation plan in consultation with all interested parties. The implementation activities are carried out, depending on the subject, in different working groups on ten regional tables. The common goal is to ensure that the transfer of the client to the Wlz is as careful and smooth as possible. I am now very committed to all the parties involved and I am convinced that we are going to achieve this goal with each other. The continuation of my speech is divided into five blocks, President: 1) youth, 2) indication/target group, 3) implementation, 4) finance, and 5) other. I'll start my answer with the youth block. That is what most of the debate has been about, so that seems logical to me. As you have read in the bill, this bill does not apply to young people under 18. The cabinet believes that the youngest will benefit most from close, municipal-organised integrated youth aid, both for the young themselves and for his or her neighbor. I recognise the concern that lives in the Chamber but also in society about helping our young people with serious psychiatric problems. These are vulnerable young people who need help and support in various areas of life. The immediate environment of young people also often needs help. Customized care are the key words for these youngsters. It is important that there is an appropriate supply of care for young people with severe psychiatric problems. Although I see good initiatives in various municipalities, I know that there is still much work to be done to ensure that all these young people receive good and appropriate help. In response to Mrs Agema's comment in this regard, I do not think I am too optimistic about the state of affairs in the municipalities. I can also see that there are bottlenecks. This has also been highlighted very clearly in the various sessions on this subject. I am not too optimistic, but perhaps a little more optimistic than Mrs Agema. All in all, the cabinet strongly favours finding the solution to the issue in the Youth Act. In my opinion, the Youth Act offers a number of advantages over the Long-Term Care Act for this category of people. For example, the Youth Act allows an integral link between all forms of youth aid, such as education support and help in behavioural disorders. In this way, the development of the child is central to the overall system. Because the municipality is responsible for the entire youth aid chain, cooperation between parties can be improved and integrated assistance tailored to this vulnerable group can be improved. In doing so, municipalities are increasingly making above-regional agreements for specific groups of young people with complex care needs. This responds to our concern that municipalities, especially smaller municipalities, may be difficult to deal with very complex care questions properly. We are increasingly seeing above-regional cooperation in this. Finally, I consider the uncertainties, unrest and implementation problems involved in the inclusion of young people in the WlZ to be a major risk. I am thinking in particular of young people who are unnecessarily sent from the municipality to the CIZ and back again. We do not want this to happen, but if I understand the authors of the amendment, they do not want it to happen. I therefore understand the wish of the Chamber to seriously explore whether young people with mental illness can have access to the Wlz, as expressed in both amendments tabled. Many questions remain unanswered in the expert sessions on this subject. In order to decide on access for young people to the Wlz, a number of conditions must therefore be met, as the members of the VVD and CDA groups stressed. The amendment tabled by Mrs Bergkamp and others mentions these conditions. Firstly, research needs to be carried out into the size and composition of the target group. Secondly, it should be examined whether the proposal is feasible for CIZ, healthcare agencies and healthcare providers. The question of feasibility is therefore an important one. Thirdly, the budgetary consequences must be assessed. This concerns the transfer of municipal funds from the Youth Act to the Wlz. This is similar to the transfer of the Wmo budget for protected living to the Wlz for adults. This should be included in the expenditure frameworks on a budget neutral basis, at least as a starting point in the amendment. Mr. Chairman. I imagine I'm gonna get a picture of it and report to the Chamber on it. In response to Mr Hijink's intrusive questions about the financial condition, I say: if you read the explanatory statement to the amendment literally, you will see: 'The starting point is budgetary neutrality'. That's a starting point and I don't think it's a law of Medes and Persians. My idea is that I will inform the Chamber about the budgetary implications and then we will have the conversation. Do we think that the set of conditions that have now been formulated provide sufficient relief to organise access for young people? Under the conditions set out in the amendment and in my interpretation of it, I shall look at the authors of the motion for a resolution. I shall leave the opinion of the Bergkamp cum suis to the Chamber. I would like to dissuade young people from having direct access, as stated in Mr Hijink's amendment, for precisely the reasons set out in the conditions. As early as 2021, I believe that unbiased access for young people is a call for accidents, especially if we take into account that it is a vulnerable target group that we have to deal with very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u4	I understand from the answer given by the Secretary of State that it was not his first preference, but that the amendment can be judged Chamber if it is formulated in this way. Let me ask the Secretary of State what he thinks of all the disclaimers in the amendment, because there are quite a few. We do not yet know exactly what the size and delineation of the target group is. You could say that there should first be a motion to figure things out and then an amendment to it. But it's going this way now. My question is, how are we going to get this back? I assume that we will have a reaction to this investigation and that it will then be returned to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u5	I will deal with Mrs Bergkamp's question later, but I believe that Mr Voordewind has also asked this question: how do you propose that timeline for this research and the presentation of these conditions? I'm gonna put that in the picture. Of course, I'm going to inform the Chamber about that and I'll outline that timetable later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u6	I get a bit of a déjà vu, because exactly the same discussion was also about the adults: should they have access in the Wlz based on a mental disorder? Now it's moving to the young. But I will go to the interpretation of the amendment. It is quite clear: "if the effects have been mapped, including in relation to the evaluation of the Youth Act, and they do not hinder careful implementation, the target group must be young people with mental illness by a royal decision" and so on. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u7	That's imperative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u8	Exactly, but I think it is also very important for the legal process to establish that, if there are no obstacles, we are going to do it. Does the Secretary of State share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u9	Yes, that is how I read the amendment and its explanatory statement. There is no misunderstanding about that. I have just outlined on the basis of which consideration the cabinet has always said: we are opting for the Youth Act. We have indicated this in the written exchange of views, and this has always been our line in the various general discussions on this subject. I can count, and I see that a majority of the Chamber says that, under conditions, young people can also be admitted. We all assume that it is a very small group of young people. Then, of course, that is imperative: if those conditions are met, then we are going to settle that; point. In my interpretation, moreover, I also said that the basic principle of budgetary neutrality is the framework conditions. I do not need to speak for Mr Hijink, but I think he and everyone deserve to be clear about the interpretation of that point. If I come back to the Chamber that there is a cup of money, just like the adults, then it is useful that we already know at the front, at the moment, what consequences that would have. In my view, I am presenting as many things as possible and as carefully as possible, informing the Chamber about them and then having the debate on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u10	I thought that the Secretary of State actually put it well: that is the starting point and if it is more, then he informs the Chamber. Then we decide with each other whether we find that a disclaimer, but the starting point is budgetary neutral. I also think that's wise. We did the same thing to the adults. If then it turns out that it costs more money, so a number of investigations take place, then we have the talk about that. But if the conditions are met, we're just gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u11	I didn't hear a question. So I am going straight to Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u12	At least I'm glad the Secretary of State says it's imperative. That's how I see it: if all the signals are green, then we're just gonna do this. There is no reservations about that either. We were talking about the word "explore." Is it true that I have to understand that there is some sort of roadmap coming to the Chamber in which this care and how we are going to proceed with this is actually outlined once again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u13	It is correct as Mr Slootweg puts it. In any case, we are going to present all the framework conditions, including how healthcare agencies should deal with purchasing from organisations with which they have no contract so far. What expertise is needed at the CIZ? Et cetera. That's what we're going to visualize. I imagine that this goes to the Chamber in one package, as our understanding of cross-compliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u14	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u15	At least that's what I wanted to hear. The word "explore" made me think it was a little more noncommittal. But the Secretary of State had already taken that back. Now I am very pleased with that step-by-step plan and the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u16	I do not think "explore" is appropriate, especially when it comes to such a vulnerable target group. We're handling this very carefully. We're going to see under which conditions some form can be given. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg and Mr Hijink have asked questions about the principle of equality and equality of law, especially when it comes to excluding 18-miners. I can answer those questions now, but in the light of my reaction to the amendment, it seems to me a bit of a waste of time. So I'm skipping them now. If there is still a need for an answer in the second term, I am happy to hear it. That's not an invitation, by the way. Mr. Chairman. The same is true of Mr Hijink's question: what does the Secretary of State think of the amendment maintaining an additional limit until it is introduced? I've gone into that. I do believe that until the target population has access to the Wlz, the existing youth regime should continue to apply, and that is the Youth Act. Let me now turn to the question that has everything to do with this: how does it fit into the timetable and how long do young people have to wait before they get that right? Mrs Bergkamp was the first to put that question, but it has been repeated by others. Then what's gonna happen? What do you have to put in the picture? In order to decide on access for young people to the Wlz, the conditions set out in the amendment must be met. That is a very clear piece of homework for the cabinet. That's what we're gonna do. The Chamber will hopefully vote on this bill next week, before the recess. Otherwise the implementation will be exciting again, because we will also go to the Upper House. But I imagine I'll just start the investigation before I go to the First Chamber. Around the summer recess, therefore, the task is to identify the elements mentioned in the framework conditions. That investigation will then be initiated. So in the summer recess of 2019 the research is started. These are complicated questions, but I do not have any agenda to take longer than is necessary. I think we should be careful. That is why I think it is real to assume that we could have carefully looked at these issues around the summer of 2020, i.e. in a year from now. I would add that it is in the picture for the summer of 2020. There's a lot to get in the picture. For the adult target group, we have had a lot of research going on for a long time. We now know a number of things. So we can do it faster. But for a careful examination, I can illustrate that if you need it, much remains to be seen. So it's gonna be summer 2020. Following that investigation and a possible positive decision on access, the CIZ will start work. For example, it attracts the extra staff needed to do so and provides training for existing staff in order to identify young people. It is also about the interpretation of the term 'permanent', especially for young people. I would add that, for the sake of completeness, there will be no new criteria in the Wlz on the basis of which young people are indicated. In 2022, the CIZ will then be able to indicate. If you compare that with the adult target group, I can reassure Mr Hijink: we are not in 2028. I don't want crash planning, but if you do it all very carefully, the indications for young people could come into effect on 1 January 2023. The year 2022 is necessary for municipalities and providers and healthcare offices to prepare themselves. An important element in this is, for example, the purchase of care. We must not forget that: care must be bought in. That too must be done carefully. That's the railroad book here. I do not think I can say much more about this at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp said the following, and other spokesmen, such as Mr De Lange, have drawn attention to this: "We think that a small group of young people with specific problems is eligible for the Wlz. In the meantime, there are also young people in the Youth Act, especially until the entry into force of that law. But there are a lot of other young people in there too. Then how do you deal with the indication in municipalities? Because those short indications often cause so much unrest." Now I am working on the subject of fellow Minister De Jonge, because it is his portfolio. He and I recognise that it is a problem and that the indication for people with permanent disabilities is often given for too short a period, such as a year. Action is being taken on this at the moment. In a very recent letter from last week, 20 June, the Minister informed the Chamber that decisions for people with a non-temporary life-long limitation are issued on a multiannual basis, unless there are valid arguments from the client's perspective and the nature of the restriction that should lead to a different consideration. Minister De Jonge is in intensive conversation with the VNG because it has to be with the municipalities countries........................................................................................................................................................ We do not have them on a string, but we want to appeal strongly to the congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u17	Just now it was about the railroad book. That leads us to 2023, if I understand correctly. That railroad book isn't for a very fast intercity, I'll say. I understand all the attention to care and lead time, but I do wonder the following. Suppose we got the research in the summer of 2020. The amendment mentions as a prerequisite: if there are no contraindications, we are going to do so. That's how I understood the Secretary of State. My question is then: when are we going to make that decision? Because I'm assuming that this decision will be made before we get a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u18	I did not mention that step separately, but I imagine that I will inform the Chamber before the summer of next year about whether or not I can meet the conditions. Let's assume in an optimistic mood that it's really possible and that I'll send it to the Chamber before the summer. As far as I am concerned, we have a debate on it the following week. I would like to propose that we debate this right before the summer or immediately after the summer, so that the Chamber can give its approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u19	We talked earlier about the size of the group. It is said that we are talking about 300 to 500 young people. When I look at the number of days we're going to take off before this group could actually go to long-term care, I think: that's a lot, because then you need three to four days per youngster, if you calculate it that way. That's exceptionally long, you'd say. Isn't there a way to allow certain processes to take place simultaneously, so that an acceleration can occur? 'Cause I know it has to be careful, but this is a bit of an extreme, isn't it, 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u20	I can't quite follow Mr Hijink's mathematics, because if you do five days per person on the indication, I think you're going for more than a year and a half, if you're talking about 300 young people. Apart from that, the indication is one thing. I share your view that this should be possible at a speedy pace if you have sufficient staff at the CIZ. But that's not the only thing. For example, the purchase of care is also a thing. The healthcare offices have to buy care from organisations. If we assume that we also have care continuity in mind, so that we want to allow young people to stay in the same organisations as much as possible, then the healthcare offices need to buy care from organisations with which they sometimes do not have a contract with. That should be in the care purchase plan for the year before introduction. A number of things need to be prepared in all due care. I say to Mr Hijink and the whole Chamber that I do not have any agenda to take a day too long here. I just think I'm yelling at myself, which could be at the expense of care if I say: you know what, we're doing it July 2022. I'm getting really excited about that. I mentioned that date now, but when I say it here, it's gonna lead a life of its own before we know it. That can be at the expense of care. Perhaps Mr Hijink will be satisfied when I say that I am doing it as quickly as possible and that I do not have a single agenda to take a day too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u21	I'd like to believe that. I just wonder to what extent the various processes mentioned by the Secretary of State can take place at the same time. I feel like we're gonna be waiting for each other. If the laws are through and the First Chamber has a curl under it, then the CIZ doesn't have to sit on its hands, does it? They know what's coming, don't they? The parties who have to buy the care also know that this is coming, right? Then you don't have to wait for each other and build in a lot of delays?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u22	But I think it is also a matter of care that I take the House of Representatives seriously. Next year around the summer, just before or after, we have a debate. That is the moment when the CIZ can be given the green light to recruit additional staff for this specific expertise. So you're gonna have to start from that departure position anyway. As far as I am concerned, a very important item on the agenda for this debate is the rapid settlement of this matter. I also want to promise you that I'll report it to the Chamber when I've had the investigation done. A timetable is attached to this for a quick implementation. Once again, I do not have any agenda to allow that to run longer than is necessary. As far as I am concerned, we have a debate on this. If Mr Hijink can draw my attention to parallel processes that I am overlooking, then we are discussing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u23	It seems to me very good that, if we can, we have the debate before the summer, because that saves us. The Secretary of State states that he is doing it as soon as possible and that there are reasons behind him for his care. I can totally agree with that. But we're doing this for adults now, and we're taking three and a half years off for that. For young people, we also spend about three and a half years. I can imagine that we are drawing from the process and process of adult learning, on the basis of which it might be possible to speed up. I'd like to give that suggestion to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u24	I'll take it with me in my inner pocket in the investigation. Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Voordewind asked about the integrality of the Long-Term Care Act, especially for the youth target group. The Long-Term Care Act has an integral package of care. The main provider, together with any other providers, provides care and pays attention to the coherence between different forms of care for the client. For example, if there is Wlz care for young people and there is also a need for support for education, the provider has a responsibility to establish a proper link between these different forms of care. In this example together with parents' care under the Youth Act. In this way, you will get the system approach that Mr Voordewind, I think, has quite rightly drawn attention to in his first term. It's primarily up to the provider to take a good look at this. I can also imagine that the healthcare office is looking into this and perhaps even suggesting that the CIZ, when giving an indication, the provider or the family, should also ask for other forms of support to ensure that there is good comprehensive help. Mr Voordewind said that the Youth Act should always give an indication. We also talked about the length of that. He asked how this is prevented with the Wlz, specifically for the youth target group, because it is very difficult to assess whether the disorder is permanent or not. In the case of young people, however, if they are covered by the scope of the law, the same starting point as for adults is the indication for an indefinite period. Once it is clear that someone has a permanent need, care 24 hours a day close and/or permanent supervision, that client will have access. If young people are given access, they will also be given an indication for an indefinite period of time, i.e. for continued support under the Long-Term Care Act. I will come back to the subject later on whether this Long-Term Care Act is indeed a kind of Hotel California, just to advertise the Eagles once more, or whether there are opportunities to switch to another regime there. Finally, a question from Mrs Agema on youth. Are there enough suitable places for admissions? For sheltered housing institutions, this means that they have to deal with health care agencies, in particular, changes in funding and other purchasing requirements. Clients can stay where they lived before this change of law. At least that's a starting point. It'll give you peace of mind. Only the payment regime becomes another. Mr. Chairman. This was the Youth Aid block, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u25	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr Voordewind. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u26	I would then like to hear how this integrality is also guaranteed in this section, because this will, of course, be a new part of the Wlz system with those healthcare providers. But we will see that; perhaps we will have to put that right in a motion. The second point concerned the indication of the CIZ, including in this category. The Secretary of State says this is permanent concern, but are we here, because this is a psychiatric problem and also about young people, then don't keep your finger on the wrist every now and then? Because of course, I have given an example of this that people can scale down from the Wlz to the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u27	This also applies to adults, but Mr Voordewind will agree with that. For example, they may also show recovery or develop a different concern. Especially when it comes to youth, there is a chance. Then I believe that all relevant actors should have an eagerness to see whether an indication needs to be adjusted or even reduced. This applies to the CIZ, which applies to the healthcare provider, which applies to the family concerned. The CIZ will have a hard time seeing that; they can't smell that. Actually, the ball is mostly there with the healthcare provider. It has to observe whether the question of care is different and it has a responsibility on its shoulders. But it also applies to the family. If they say "yet our child is now in the wrong care approach, we want to have another type of support," then that family can also point that out and request a re-indication from the CIZ. So the ball lies with different actors, where care provider and family involved are the directly designated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u28	It's about kids. It's possible that a 12-year-old is already given a Wlz indication. The Secretary of State says that the healthcare provider or the parents themselves can give indications towards the CIZ, but are there any benchmarks? I can imagine that the 18th birthday is a benchmark to see how the younger person is doing, whether they can be scaled down and so on. Are we going to set benchmarks in this because it concerns young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u29	To be honest, I find it difficult in this situation to make the cesura at the age of 18. In my opinion, there is no generic evidence that at the age of 18 there are far-reaching things that justify such a review. As a general starting point, I would use the healthcare provider's responsibility for the scaling up and down of care. I have also said to ggz providers that they provide very good care, but that they probably find it easier to scale up than to scale down. Also when scaling it should be possible to go to other arrangements. I wouldn't want to tie that to an age. However, I believe that Mr Voordewind is making a relevant point. There is a comprehensive package, and now that an amendment seems to make it possible for young people to have access to the Wlz, the provision of assistance for the family should not be reduced, namely only for young people on the basis of the Wlz. I therefore imagine that there can indeed be a dialogue between the municipality, responsible for the Youth Act, and the healthcare provider/CIZ on a full offer that the family can do most.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u30	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u31	I understand that, but at the same time, I do have concerns. A child of 12 years old, for example, is still developing. I am not saying that the benchmark should be 18 years, but I assume that we will get a benchmark somewhere where the health insurance company says: we need to do an extra check on this, because the child is now 18, 19 or 20 and may have developed very well. I am not saying at what age that should happen, but it would be good if we were to set benchmarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u32	At present, the law does not provide for young people to be included. The amendment regulates this, but the amendment does not provide for the installation of a sort of intermediate moment when the child reaches the 18th year of life. I would also like to know what the other proposers think of that, but at least for the time being the bill does not provide for it. I don't have a very big urge to organize that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u33	Mr. De Lange?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u34	Yeah, maybe just to get clarity on this. You're telling me you're taking the Hotel California story in the block. Isn't the bill contained that if there's recovery and the situation demands, there's the possibility of getting out of the Wlz again? Isn't that true for all ages?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u35	Mr President, I think it would be best if I took this question with me right now, otherwise we will have the same conversation again. Mr De Lange is absolutely right. The principle is that the best treatment is constantly monitored in the case of the assistance provided. Within a Wlz framework, different degrees of care are possible: heavier treatment, lighter treatment, daily spending and other types of support. So that can be pushed into it, but it can even be completely phased out. This applies to adults, but certainly also to young people. I say to Mr De Lange that I am mainly responding to Mr Voordewind's question as to whether, as a standard rule, everyone has an extra calibration moment at 18. I haven't considered that question yet. I can also imagine that in the debate on the framework conditions, on which we already agree that it will take place next year, we will address this specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u36	In my view, it is important for the legal process to note that this review is already, in fact, a natural part of the legislative proposal. That possibility always exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u37	Yes. There's no pin to get in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u38	Fine. You'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u39	I have therefore answered the questions put by Mrs Bergkamp and Mr De Lange about Hotel California. The "if you're in it, you'll never get out" doesn't apply to the Long-Term Care Act. That's already the case, including for other client groups. It will also apply when the ggz offers a basis to be admitted to the Wlz. If there is a recovery that is not foreseen in the indication, people may use another support if in all cases the assistance and support that is designated and appropriate for the client concerned is provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u40	I honestly don't know what's going on, so I'd like to know if the Secretary of State knows. I understand that at the moment when a young person is eligible for the Wlz, the municipality can also rely on this and that the young person would therefore no longer have the right to care under the Youth Act. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u41	Just to clarify the question: does Mr Hijink mean that young people, at least the parents, will call on it, for example, with a serious intellectual limitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u42	I'm mainly referring to where we're going later. We take as an example a young 15-year-old who has serious psychological problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u43	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u44	Suppose the boy himself does not necessarily want to go to the Wlz, for example because he is satisfied with the way things are going, but that the municipality indicates that this boy is actually eligible for the Wlz. Can that municipality, for example, when such a case comes before the courts, invoke that the Youth Act states that you are no longer entitled to child care under the Youth Act, because you are entitled to care from the Wlz?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u45	Then the Wlz would be a kind of provision for Youth Law arrangements. Let's put it in the right order. If that case were to occur and a municipality says that this young person should actually fall under the regime of the Long-Term Care Act, then it is logical that there should be a CIZ indication pathway. That is where people are informed to assess whether there is persistence and whether all the criteria of the Long-Term Care Act are met. That happens completely objectively. If it turns out that's true, there's gonna be a CIZ indication. You don't have to cash it, by the way. Suppose a family says: we do have a CIZ indication, but we stick it behind the wallpaper and we don't do anything with it. Then there's no one who's gonna force that family to take advantage of that. It is also conceivable that they will make use of the CIZ indication, but that there will also be partial recourse to the Youth Act, for example in the case of education support, because education support is a provision that does not fall under the regime of the Long-Term Care Act. But if you look at the family as a whole and the indication for the Long-Term Care Act offers tailored assistance for the younger only................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This leads to a separate indication under the Youth Act. I hope that is an answer to the question put by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u46	That's what we're gonna hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u47	I'm specifically talking about the indication of mental illness, so you would have access to the Wlz on that basis. The CIZ issued that indication, but the younger or the parents decide not to use it. The point is that at that time you cannot lose care from the municipality, from the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u48	It seems to me to be a very strange setting, because that means that parents have been to the CIZ and had an indication. Parents can also say: we persist in support from the municipality and before we even go to the CIZ to get an indication that we are not waiting for at all, as we want support from the municipality, we will go to the judge. I can imagine such a situation could arise. By the way, at local level, you also have the normal course of justice that should be in the rule of law. You can object and appeal if you do not receive an indication under the Youth Act, because that is the case. Those parents say they want an indication under the Youth Act. The municipality says: you don't get it; this is an appropriate situation for the CIZ. The parents say we're not going to the ClZ at all, because we don't want to be in the WlZ. Then they can object to not issuing a decision. If, on the appeal committee, those parents are unsuccessful, they can also go to court. And what the judge does, that's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u49	Then there is a question from Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u50	I would like to continue with this, because the question puzzles me a little bit. How does that work at the moment when you would have a physical or intellectual disability? At the moment, isn't it true that there aren't many municipalities that are applying for it? Isn't that what the parents always do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u51	Yeah, but municipalities can get parents on that path. They can say: we advise you to walk that path. That's the normal conversation you could have then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u52	The essence of my question is: if you have a mental disorder, isn't there going to be anything other than a physical or intellectual disability? That process is the same, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u53	That's right. There's no misunderstanding about that. Those tracks are gonna run like this. In response to the way I just put it, I would like to say that education support is one thing that is covered by the Youth Act and which may exist alongside an indication for the Wlz within the same family. A double indication of ggz support within the family for one individual is not mentioned. It's either one or the other. That's what I'm adding for the sake of completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u54	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Bergkamp. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I just needed to put in a helpline. When it comes to Article 129, also a little in response to Mr Hijink's question, it says in paragraph c: "If the College has reasonable grounds to believe that the young person can again be eligible for care under the Long-term Care Act and the young person or his legal representative refuses to participate in obtaining a decision to do so." It looks like the municipality can say that she no longer cares under the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u56	That is how I understand Mr Hijink's speech. In my opinion, then, parents say: "So we get no decision from the municipality. That's what we want in black and white, that negative decision. For then we have a handle to object and appeal."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u57	And then you just have to go to the judge. It will probably be an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u58	I hope this never happens, but it will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u59	And if so, you'll go to court for appeal and appeal. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u60	Mr. Chairman. Several political groups, VVD, Christian Union and SP, have asked how the CIZ will apply the concept of "permanentity." That there must be permanence is one of the bearing thoughts under the law. This concept is not clearly defined by law. It is also not possible to underline it with a thick viltan. It's not black or white. The CIZ identifies the continuing need on the basis of medical information from the relevant expert, e.g. a psychiatrist or an EZ psychologist. In making a decision, the CIZ also involves the diagnosis, treatment history, the course of illness and the course of the client's life. There's a client's file, and all of this is involved to assess the persistence. The indication concerns whether the disorders and limitations resulting from the condition, the lack of direction in virtually all areas of life and the lack of ability to seek assistance at relevant times lead to a permanent need for permanent supervision or 24-hour care close by. Any improvements in functioning do not change this and therefore do not reduce the need for care. That is what I just said in response to Mr De Lange. It may be that within the indication for the Wlz scheme there are still gradations of aid. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked by Mr Slootweg and Mr Voordewind and others about the preparation of the CIZ. In the documents there is talk of 95 fte. Is that gonna work? Can the CIZ issue indications as of January 1st? In preparation for the legislative amendment, the CIZ set up a project. In order to carry out the assessment, the CIZ has now recruited 100 additional employees, who are now being prepared for the tasks. In addition, eleven relationship managers have been appointed to shape the process for 2020 at regional and local level with healthcare providers and municipalities. The preparations for the implementation of the legislative proposal are therefore fully on track with regard to the indicative story. To monitor progress, regular consultations are held between the CIZ and VWS, a kind of hotline connection. At the moment, everything looks like CIZ is fully capable of starting the process of indication as of 1 January 2020. The right to care starts on 1 January 2021 as you have seen in the law, so the CIZ has a year to indicate a large group of people. At present, agreements are made with interested parties to avoid waiting lists in the care itself, not at the CIZ. If there are waiting lists for other CIZ target groups, for example disabled people, it is precisely this extension with 100 employees that is very welcome to bet on it this year. Mr. Chairman. In what way do Mr De Lange and Mr Voordewind ask, will municipalities and CIZ join forces in the 2020 assessment and how will they be supported? 2020 is the transition year. By the way, it may also be mentioned that it is nice that municipalities have said that people who have made use of the transitional right that lasted five years will be added that year 2020. It's not possible. This avoids a great deal of unrest. It is a good thing that municipalities have been so generous in this respect. As regards this specific question about the cooperation between CIZ and municipalities, the answer is as follows. By 2020, the clients who move to the Wlz will be in contact with both the municipality and the CIZ. It is important that this process goes well and that there is coordination between CIZ and the relevant municipality or health insurance provider, including the health insurance provider of people who are still in the Health Insurance Act regime. That's why I founded the Netherlands, the VNG and the CIZ regional tables together with ZN, so Health Insurance. This topic is one of the discussion points at the regional tables, which are supported by Q-Consult Zorg. In addition, some municipalities and the CIZ are working on a joint document setting out and describing the cooperation. Mr Renkema asked whether the question of care should fit into the framework of the law or whether the question of care should be taken into account. The answer to that question is: the indication for the Wlz is to determine the limitations arising from the mental disorder and to ensure that there is a permanent need for permanent supervision or 24-hour care in the vicinity. If the Wlz indication has been issued, the healthcare office will look at which provider the client can best get his care from. In that care plan agreements are made on how the care question translates into the care to be provided. Mr De Lange asked what kind of medical frameworks would be used and whether I would involve the municipalities in the indication. In order to make a decision, the CIZ needs up-to-date medical information from relevant experts, such as the psychiatrist or the EZ psychologist, which I mentioned earlier. In addition, the CIZ involves the documents I just mentioned, so the client's entire file. The file must therefore be up-to-date and complete. There is a role for the healthcare provider in particular. In addition, it is important that there is, if necessary, coordination between CIZ and the municipality. This is particularly desirable in cases of doubt. At the regional tables that I was talking about, it is agreed how this can be done as carefully as possible. Mr De Lange also asked how the indications dealt with the erratic course of a mental disorder. The indication concerns whether the disorders and limitations resulting from mental illness, lack of direction and lack of ability to call for help result in a permanent need for permanent supervision or 24-hour care per day in the vicinity. The medical information, including any erratic course of the disease, is important for the determination of the permanent need. It also looks at the treatment history, the course of the illness and the course of the client's life. All relevant information available is thus involved in order to optimally discount the erratic life cycle of the patient concerned. Mr Voordewind and Mr Slootweg asked: does the CIZ have sufficient knowledge and expertise for the indication? The indication is carried out by both existing and new employees of the CIZ. I just said it attracted a hundred extra employees. All employees follow a central training pathway in which specific attention is paid to this group. This pathway offers specific knowledge, skills and the ability to practice acquired knowledge and skills. Expertise of, among others, ggz and healthcare providers, housing forms and client organisations is involved. Mr. Chairman. I took care of the indicator block with this. Then I'll move on to the implementation block. Mrs Bergkamp asked if institutions are ready and what preparations are needed. The healthcare providers are aware of the change that is coming. They're busy preparing for that. Healthcare providers are also participating in the regional tables I was just talking about as part of the implementation. The industry organisations themselves have also created a joint implementation plan for healthcare providers. It offers them handles to prepare themselves well. For protected housing institutions, this means very concretely that they will be responsible for specific treatment. The industry associations drew attention to this in a letter to the Chamber. I myself am convinced that we are very well in touch with the industry organisations and that we are very well prepared in this respect. If institutions do not now provide Wlz care, I add, there is a one-off adaptation to the administrative requirements of the Long-Term Care Act. Then ICT needs to be adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u61	That raises a question for Mrs Bergkamp. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u62	I have another question about protected living, pgb and parental initiatives. I got some e-mails about that. There are some concerns. Imagine having a parent initiative for 17 children, some of whom will soon comply with the Wlz, and some of them will comply with the Wmo or remain in the Health Insurance Act. It's all gonna take a while, but how can an institution handle it best? Can the Secretary of State state indicate that they are being accompanied? Because I can imagine that this is kind of tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u63	As far as I am concerned, this is a very specific focus on implementation. I would like to promise Mrs Bergkamp that I will ensure that this is handled very carefully. If there appear to be hiccups in the implementation, I will inform the Chamber. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp and I have the starting point that young and old can stay with the same provider as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp also asked whether customer support was sufficiently involved in the implementation. At the regional tables I was talking about, there is also plenty of representation of client supporters. I trust that they will pay attention to the fact that customer support is involved in this major change up to the heart of Dutch society. I think there have already been several debates on customer support. I think Mrs Bergkamp referred to that as well. I think there is enough ground to get this right, but we will certainly keep our finger on the pulse. Mr De Lange asked if I expected any bottlenecks when ggz clients joined the Wlz. I believe that all signals in the implementation process are green. The healthcare providers are also involved in the regional tables I have mentioned several times. The aim is to identify and agree on specific bottlenecks at these tables. Similarly, it is important that clients and traders are aware that the medical record including current diagnostics is in order. This avoids problems with the application to the CIZ. In general, Mr De Lange asked me if I could see any problems. The biggest complicated point I'm looking for right now is how we're gonna do well with youth. I think we have just discussed this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u64	Before you go any further, there is still a question from Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u65	I understand what you're saying about the importance of the appointments at the tables on good file-forming. It is also about weighing the combination of factors life course, diagnosis and what is expected. The people of the CIZ are trained there. It has been asked earlier whether, for example, guidelines have been developed on the basis of which this is verifiable and on the basis of which decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u66	I am going to go under the block on the quality frameworks that have been asked for; I will not pick that block completely. In general, however, we aim to be clear on the basis of which criteria should be assessed. I will go into detail later on about the quality frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u67	Then we'll wait for that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u68	Mr. Chairman. Your own contribution. Several spokesmen, including Mrs Bergkamp, have asked questions about this. How are clients well informed? For some clients, the effects will be best, we should not hide them, even though there will be little impact on a large part of the clients. The CAK communicates with healthcare providers, clients and client organisations about the calculation of its own contribution. The importance of timely communication has already been discussed by us with the CAK. I wholeheartedly support this interest. People shouldn't be surprised. I asked the CAK to actively disseminate information on the calculation of its own contribution in the run-up to the entry into force of the bill. In addition, I work with relevant organisations, such as the healthcare office and the CIZ, on a broad communication plan. This communication plan also focuses on providing information on its own contribution. To the above I can add that even now, for people who, for example, use the Wlz through extended stays, the larger own contribution will apply. As far as I know, this is being carefully communicated to that client group and this does not cause much unrest. Mr. Hijink has asked where clients can contact a changed care question or when reaching the age of 18 during the transition year. In 2020, the municipality and the health insurance company will remain responsible for providing care support to the client who will be covered by the Wlz as of 2021 due to a mental illness. Until 2021, the regular process applies. The client can therefore always contact the municipality or the health insurance company in 2020 if it is good. The logistics process in 2020 and the client's approach will be agreed during the implementation process with VNG, on behalf of the municipalities, ZN, on behalf of the health insurance companies, and the CIZ. In doing so, the communication with the clients has the necessary attention. The implementation plan also focuses on the group of people who are now at risk of falling between shore and ship, including young people around 18 years of age. So that has an explicit focus in the communication plan. The parties concerned shall consider whether these bottlenecks can be removed. Mr Slootweg asked how the government will continue to ensure that the target group moving to the Long-Term Care Act itself does not notice this as much as possible. This is a fair question; perhaps the key question. A careful transition with as little unrest as possible with clients is my starting point, but I am sure that this is also the starting point of the Chamber when implementing the bill. Together with all the parties involved, I have drawn up an implementation plan. Among them are the ten regional tables, in which municipalities, health offices, healthcare providers, CIZ and client representatives participate. Similarly, local arrangements can be made to ensure a careful transfer of clients. The Communication Working Group deals with communication, so that the right target group is reached, and the CIZ strongly focuses on relationship management with municipalities, healthcare providers and interest groups such as MIND and Per Balance. Mr Slootweg also asked whether the government could inform the Chamber about two things during the six months prior to the entry into force of the bill: firstly, the consultation with the sectors of healthcare providers on the subject of "treatment" and secondly, the simultaneous identification of what more they can do if further steps are needed. The answer is yes. I will inform the Chamber of the progress of the Working Party on Treatment and any additional steps that need to be taken. It is expected that this working group will conclude its work by the end of this year, November 2019. I'm done with the implementation block and I'm moving on to the finance block. Mr. Chairman. Several groups have asked why the lower limit estimate of numbers is used. As you know, it has been very carefully estimated and we have even had a few rounds of estimates. In the upper limit, which several spokesmen spoke about, there are also potential Wlz clients from institutions that did not participate in the investigation. Based on the further investigation of the HHM office and discussions with VNG and municipalities, it was chosen to assume the lower limit, because municipalities recognise themselves best in this. Municipalities themselves say, looking at their client population: we think that this is a real assessment. Municipalities consider it likely that the institutions that did not participate in the investigation do not house potential Wlz clients. So it's not wishful thinking, but there's a foundation. Mr Renkema has also asked about the different amounts that are mentioned and which would be necessary. What amount of extra costs do you have to assume? The estimate of the number of clients that there are 9,250 is based on the investigation I was just referring to. This leads to these amounts, which are based on them. The average amount is, I believe, €60,000 to €65,000 per client. This is therefore based on the research that has taken very careful form in several rounds. Mr Renkema also asked: can the transfer of patients to the Wlz be accompanied by high extra costs? I believe that this question was specifically aimed at transferring young clients, because we have already made a budget for the adults. Indeed, the admission of young ggz clients is based on a budget-neutral transfer from the Municipal Fund. The money follows the client. Further research has been carried out to assess the extent of this transfer. We discussed in detail how we dealt with financial assessments at the youth block. Mr Slootweg has asked whether I am prepared to have the Chamber look at the financial consequences of the abolition of the three-year criterion and the consequences of the settlement of risks. The answer is as follows. The Court shall be informed annually of developments and investigations relating to the risk settlement. Of course, the financial consequences of abolishing the three-year criterion will be taken into account as soon as they are known. Mr De Lange asked: are we sure that we will get the 495 million transferred from the municipalities? Yes, this was already agreed in 2018 in the administrative consultation with municipalities. It's part of the bill. Municipalities are not going to hold a general assembly of members. It's well attached. I'm done with the finance block. I'll just have a block left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u69	Yes, but there are a number of questions. First of all, Mr Renkema. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u70	The Secretary of State has answered my question about possible exceedances. I have mentioned quite specifically that the NZa also says that it has doubts about the choice of the lower limit of the bandwidth. The NZa also concludes that there may be uncertainty. In case of a possible overrun, the Secretary of State says that this can be covered from the Expenditure Ceiling care. I said this doesn't sound very structural. The Secretary of State says, "That estimate, it's a good one." But what if the amount is exceeded? Then what's gonna happen? I would like to explain this a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u71	If the expenditure is higher than estimated... The arrangement we're talking about is... Well, let me put it this way... no, I'm gonna say it differently. If there's an overrun, I'm gonna report it and we're gonna have a conversation about how to deal with it. As far as I'm concerned, we're not stopping when a ceiling is reached. We use this movement for reasons of principle. It would be very strange if in September we transferred 10,000 clients to the Wlz living from the Wmo protected and the Health Insurance Act and we said that we'd quit because we ran out of money. So I'll definitely come back to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u72	Shortly. Does the Secretary of State recognize the point of the NZa that this uncertainty, that uncertainty, is simply in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u73	There are uncertainties about the financial estimates. Of course, the 68 million that we are structuralally estimating for this is well calculated. However, certain assumptions are then taken into account, e.g. a certain degree of impact on the tariff. The NZa will present views this year on tariffs to be applied to this concern. Then it could just be that we're working with different numbers. But we do not assume that, precisely because it seems unlikely to us that if a client continues to be treated in the same place, often by the same provider, the costs will be substantially more. That is the idea that we have set out below. Nevertheless, we have reserved an additional amount. We don't think we're too optimistic about this. If we've found out, we're gonna report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u74	Thank you. Another question from Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u75	I would like to ask, in the same vein, how it is dealt with when there are failures. I find that interesting to know, too. But the reason why I came here is that I have not heard in this block whether you have an assessment of the amendment I tabled together with Mr De Lange. I suspected that would belong to this block of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u76	About the three-year criterion? That's what I'm getting at right now, but I'm sorry I'm cutting it under other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u77	We'll wait and see. The Secretary of State continues the reply. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u78	Mr. Chairman. Let me get that right away. Mrs Bergkamp has asked: do you inform the Chamber if the three-year criterion is abolished, if only one access road comes to the Wlz? Yes, of course I'm going to inform the Chamber about that. That was also my idea in the design of the bill: it should be regulated through an AMvB. But it's just certain that it's going to be abolished. So the question is not whether it will be abolished, but when. It seemed logical to me that a report to the Chamber that we are going to do so would suffice. But if the Chamber says 'we have an amendment stating that we have to do so by means of a veil', if the Chamber so wishes, then I leave the judgment to the Chamber. That is my assessment of the amendment. I wouldn't have thought of it myself, but it's not a problem in itself, so judge Chamber. Then I come under the heading other than the point of quality of care. Mrs Bergkamp has specifically asked and others have referred to this: care in the Wlz, that is where we work with quality frameworks; is there already a quality framework ggz in the Wlz? In the Long-Term Care Act, quality frameworks for the V&V sector, care and care, care for the elderly and for the disabled are deposited at the Zorginstituut, but not yet for the ggz. Mrs Bergkamp has a point. There are quality purchasing requirements, ggz-B, from the healthcare office. For 2021 there will be procurement requirements from the healthcare office, based on the procurement requirements ggz-B and the VNG purchase requirements for protected housing. Now I'm beginning to understand that the bleachers are getting a little empty. GGZ Nederland has started developing quality criteria for 2022, so they are being developed. They do this in consultation with MIND, the Federation Reception and the RIBW Alliance. Those last two are going to merge this year; at least that is the intention. Existing quality frameworks shall be used. This is expected to be developed over the next two years. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink asked: does the Secretary of State intend to increase the capacity of the IGJ? With the IGJ, the inspection, is agreed to monitor whether this bill leads to additional activities of the IGJ. If necessary, this will be provided for in the IGJ's budget. Then we'll see if the capacity needs to be expanded. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink also asked: do you have a plan of action for the current waiting periods? The waiting lists have to do with purchasing arrangements, good triage and good referral between providers, and there must be good waiting list mediation. We have had a number of debates on this subject, including in the context of the Ggz. Waiting lists must be resolved at regional level. Each region must have a waiting list approach that unravels why waiting lists are created in that region. However, this approach leads to good business being done between health insurers, healthcare providers and municipalities to take steps to eliminate waiting lists. The Minister has made specific agreements on this subject for young people in the 'Care for Youth' programme. Mr. Chairman. Well, this is a very general question from Mr Hijink: "Can a small group have easier access to the Long-Term Care Act? Show some coulance." I think that was about that border group or the group sitting in the waiting room, as it were, to get to youth. Did I get that correctly? May I ask the spokesperson?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u79	Oh, yeah. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u80	Yes, and that concerns in particular the group in which the intellectual limitation was not demonstrated before the 18th. There's a lot of fuss about that, with lawsuits. That's the group we're asking for some coulance for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u81	Okay, so I better place it. In itself, we do not want to interfere with the principles of the Long-Term Care Act. The question of coulance for one group will lead to the same request from another group. In order to do justice to any client who makes a request to Wlz, everyone will benefit from clear, clear and unambiguous criteria for everyone. If Mr Hijink could come up with very concrete cases specifically about young disabled people, I would invite him to share them with VWS, because we also have people working on very complicated cases that do not lead to solutions. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another question about the four-month transitional period for the own contribution. Mr Hijink asked: isn't that too soon; shouldn't that be extended to six months? The four-month transitional period for the transition from the low to the high own contribution applies to all Wlz clients, i.e. not only to this category. In the light of equality of law, I find it difficult to justify applying a different regime to this category. I would like to emphasise that the amount of the own contribution depends on the financial capacity of the client. Those states are shared with the Room. Moreover, clients who already live protected on the basis of the Wmo 2015 already pay the same contribution as for the Wlz care, so for those clients nothing changes in that respect. Mr De Lange asked about the cashing-in for ggz-B. The Long-Term Care Monitor states that 25% of ggz-B clients do not cash out their indication in 2017; what is the explanation for this? For clients with mental illness, the stay in a clinical setting with treatment is currently paid out of the Long-Term Care Act after the third year, for the first three years, as you know, from the Health Insurance Act. That's what we call continued residence. That's a three-year temporary Wlz indication. If a client no longer needs this care at any point in time, he can drain to the Wmo, for example for sheltered residences, or to the Health Insurance Act for Outpatient Care. At that point, a client like that doesn't cash out the Wlz indication. That's the explanation. They can still be re-entered into the clinic within the legal time limit, thus re-lives Wlz law, without first going back to the Health Insurance Act. That's to build in some flexibility. Therefore, the CIZ does not close the indications. Moreover, after the three-yearly review in 2018, the non-use rate decreased to 13% in 2019. Mr De Lange also asked how work on recovery was secured in the bill. Also in the Long-Term Care Act attention is paid to development. Any client can experience a development within his limitations. For example, it is about reconnecting with family, structure in the day and a meaningful daily use. It is up to the treatment staff or supervisors to give execution here. The last question I answered was also from Mr De Lange, but this is also his last debate, so I think that is appropriate, at least the last debate in this House of Representatives, now. Mr De Lange asked how the transition from sheltered living to good care in the Long-Term Care Act was organised. The healthcare providers are aware of the change that is coming. They're busy preparing for this. Healthcare providers participate in the regional tables, which I have mentioned on several occasions in the context of implementation. The industry organisations themselves have also developed a joint implementation plan for healthcare providers. They give them good handles to prepare themselves. All interested parties are preparing to make the transition of clients as simple as possible. Hopefully we will be able to say in a few years' time: people have not experienced great shocks, but they have experienced more peace. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u82	Thank you. Four amendments have been tabled. The Secretary of State has provided an opinion on the amendments in the course of his reply. The amendment in part No. 9 is the Court's opinion, the amendment to item No. 10 is not recommended, the amendment to item No. 11 has been withdrawn and the amendment to item No 11 has been withdrawn. 12 is also Judgment Room. So that's just for the administration. This means that we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I would like to take the floor first of all to Mrs Bergkamp, who speaks on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his response and his drive on this subject. It's nice to feel the passion for a particular subject together. You notice that in politics things are going a little faster than sometimes the other way around. In this debate, I am therefore very happy with the way this is going. What we're going to do, this subject, is still a milestone, if the law is passed. We may not make the headlines of the newspapers and we may not, but this is very important for people, for the people who it is about and for their families. If the law is passed, long-term care will be given a basis for people with mental illness. We think that more appropriate care can be given and that we also look more integrally at people; people cannot be cut. As far as we are concerned, the same argument applies to young people. That is why we have tabled an amendment, together with colleagues from the CDA. I also think it is important to point out that during the cabinet period I also dealt with this issue together with Mrs Mona Keijzer. The amendment was also signed by the VVD. It has already been recalled that this is the last debate in this Chamber by Mr De Lange. We have sometimes thought differently about this subject, but I think it is a happy end that Mr De Lange is also under the amendment. I would like to thank him for his cooperation, and I wish him every success in all the good things he is going to do. The amendment was also signed by GroenLinks and also by Mrs Agema. So the wait is still on Mr Hijink, I would say. I hope that next summer we will make a decision on the issue of young people. I like that we assume a very careful implementation, but that we are going to adapt the system to humans. That's good. It often happens that people have to adapt to the system, but what we're doing here is adapting the system to people. I also welcome the commitments. If the amendment on young people is adopted, we will see what we can learn from adults, so that we may be able to speed up. Attention is paid to customer support, to pgb protected living and the parent initiatives, where when it comes to implementation there are some concerns about different clients with perhaps different care issues and different care laws. It is also good that there is a separate quality framework. I am pleased that we are already working on this, but I think that this is a real gain and that it is much better if it comes from the sector rather than from a motion of censure. There were also some concerns about the integral care that can be delivered in the Wlz. But I think that care has been taken away, because the Secretary of State has clearly indicated that there is also comprehensive care in the Wlz. I told you, there's also triage, involving the family. If necessary, care can also be provided under the Youth Act. I'm glad that care, if it was still alive, was taken away. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the amendment of the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz) to provide access to this law for people who are permanently in need of permanent supervision due to mental illness or care 24 hours a day is close to implementation of the Keijzer/Bergkamp motion;]] [[having regard to the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. is adopted and, after careful preparation, young people should also have access to the Wlz on the basis of a mental disorder, this should not be burdensome for these young people;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the VNG to consider how the transition of young people with mental illness who meet the Wlz criteria leads to the lowest possible burden, for example, looking at extending decisions and preventing unnecessary relocations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35146-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u85	Thank you. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Voordewind. Mr Voordewind speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u86	Thank you. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer, including our questions. We look forward to implementing the law. I am very pleased that the regional tables are being used for this too, because, as Mrs Bergkamp says, we must and can now adapt the law to the care that is so badly needed. We are talking about over 9 000 people who need to be properly tailored to their needs. Support from the Christian Union for the bill. In the debate, we exchanged views on the young people. I have the next motion for a resolution to define this integrality and also that support from the Youth Act, when those young people move to the Wlz, and to encourage the Secretary of State to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young people who have a permanent need for permanent supervision due to mental illness or care in the vicinity 24 hours a day often have to do with complex psychological, and often multiple, problems;]] [[Whereas, unlike the Wlz, the Youth Act provides for integrated diagnostics and comprehensive care for young people with multiple problems, combined with family support;]] [[Whereas young people with long-term mental illness may still have access to the Wlz;]] [[believes that these young people also have the right to full assistance and care, with a view to family and environment;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in consultation with municipalities, the possibilities of providing this group of young people and their families with comprehensive care and support from the Youth Act to the Wlz, as well as the possibilities for combining support from the Youth Act with care from the Wlz, in order to assess the effects of the transfer of young people with long-term mental illness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35146-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u88	Thank you very much. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Hijink. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also for the SP Group, it wholeheartedly supports the bill. It is an important improvement for a large group of people, who will soon be given more certainty about the care they really need. We have talked extensively today about young people, about young people who will be able to have access to long-term care if they are facing serious psychological problems. I must say quite frankly that, when Mrs Bergkamp's amendment came in, we were genuinely concerned about the conditions laid down in the explanatory statement in particular. Some of them have been taken from me. This concerns in particular the organisational aspects: institutions must be ready, the CIZ must be ready and municipalities must make adjustments. I very much agree that this should be done carefully. At one point, my concern remains, and that is funding. I am also a spokesperson for youth services within our group. I do all these youth care debates. And every week I hear the stories about the huge deficits in youth care, about the problems that exist in youth ggz and about young people who do not get the care they need. If the money that these young people now have in the Youth Act goes one-on-one to long-term care, while the need for care within long-term care is heavier and more budget is needed, then I do not want to see a cut linked to that transition. That's why I'm filing the next motion. I hope the Secretary of State wants to embrace it. Then we can look at what we are doing with our own amendment and see if we can go along with Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. But I'm gonna leave that in the middle for a little while. Let's move on to the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is good that the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz) is open to young people with severe and long-term mental problems;]] [[Whereas the opening of the Wlz to adults with severe mental illness is based on higher expenditure because the care provided within the Wlz is wider than at present under the Social Support Act;]] [[noting that youth care currently suffers from shortages, waiting lists and rates that are not always cost-effective;]] [[considers that the transition of young people with serious mental problems from the Youth Act to the Wlz follows the patient, or the client, but that this budget should be avoided in order to provide the care required within the Wlz;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent shortages within the Wlz to ensure care for this vulnerable group in the future opening of the Long-Term Care Act for young people with severe mental problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35146-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have any motions. However, I do have two more questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, thank you for the comprehensive answer to the questions, the comprehensive response of the Secretary of State and his explanation of the legislative proposal. It's become clearer today. Let us be very clear: after such a long preparation, as GroenLinks, we are very happy that this legislative amendment is coming, that it is now in place. It is also good that the Secretary of State has moved towards youth by giving Mrs Bergkamp's amendment and others 'judgement chamber'. There is a great deal to be done to ensure that this amendment is successful. I assume that we can finally give the green light to young people's access to the Wlz by the summer of 2020. I'd like to be very precise. I would like the Secretary of State to promise that we will talk about this in June 2020. It's been a couple of times this afternoon about "summer 2020." I think that's a little broad-minded. I would very much like us to have the results of the research in June 2020 and to be able to really take the final step in this legislative amendment. I still have concerns about the macro budget. The Secretary of State has said the necessary things, but my concerns have not been fully removed. We must ensure that this change of law does not lead to a reduction in budgets in the longer term. Mr Hijink also said something about this when it comes to youth care. The period of preparation is still a long one. Could the Secretary of State promise that we will have good information on the estimates at that time? The numbers and rates are becoming increasingly clear. In this way, we will not find out later that we will have a problem in the macro-budget in the longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u91	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Slootweg. Mr Slootweg speaks on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State for the comprehensive and careful response. Looking at the whole process, it remains remarkable. My predecessor tabled an amendment together with Mrs Bergkamp in 2014. Now we're here. It shall be introduced in 2021. When you see what preceded it, these people almost got into a curse and a sigh in other laws, because first it came from the AWBZ. That remains remarkable, but that is certainly not a reproach to the Secretary of State. I see here an involved Secretary of State, who wants to speed up where it can, but also based on care. That's why I think it's kind of cool that he said at some point: 2023. You notice that everyone would want to go faster, but he says it's about care and then I'm not gonna promise anything I can't promise. I think that is in the spirit in which this debate has taken place. The point of care is the reason why I would like to endorse Mrs Bergkamp's motion. There too, care in the transition is the key concept. I wish the Secretary of State every success for the moment he is allowed to cross the street to bring the law forward with speed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u93	Thank you. By "the other side," you mean the First Chamber. I would now like to give the floor to Mr De Lange. It has already been referred to by a number of people: this is his last plenary debate as a Member of Parliament. I call you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers. An important point about what we have discussed about youth is that the amendment has not only created conditions, but has, above all, been a plea for careful implementation. I think that's a very important one. I am also pleased that this has been clarified. There will be a railway booklet to get a better picture and a better view of it. I think we should also be careful in the Chamber that we declare data sacred too easily. In the end, it should be a careful implementation. Why does that matter to me? Because ultimately it is also about the expectations of vulnerable people who are counting on it. We can want anything, but that must be guaranteed in the end. I think good things have been exchanged in this debate. I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that the starting point of this law is that money follows the client, and that clear agreements have already been made with the municipalities on the front. It creates clarity. As far as I am concerned, this should also be the starting point for the future. Then I'll get to the lockdown. This is about the purpose of this law, ultimately that people can continue to develop, including in the Wlz. It's not a Hotel California, reported the Secretary of State. That always brings you into the realms of that famous summit 2000. Where it sometimes looks a bit like a Bohemian Rhapsody in people's lives, I hope that eventually this law will lead to the song Happy from Pharell Williams being number one. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u95	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he would like two minutes of suspension in order to prepare himself for the response and to make an assessment of the motions. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u96	I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond in the second term. I would also ask him to give an opinion on the motions that have been tabled. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the spokesmen for their broad support for this bill. In my opinion, it is indeed a real milestone, as Mrs Bergkamp says, that today, at least in terms of support from the House of Representatives, we are going to organise a green light for access to the Long-term Care Act for people with ggz problems. It's okay to think about that. So thank you very much for that support from this side of Parliament. I will do my utmost to defend this bill on the other side as well. I would also like to thank Mr De Lange for his warm words about the balance between care and speed, and for his support for my approach: rather later and carefully than the other way around. I would also like to thank him very much in this way for the pleasant cooperation and wish him every success in the great next step in the public administration. Mr. Chairman. A few motions have been tabled, first of all Mrs Bergkamp's motion on item No. 13. It invites the government to discuss the transition of young people with mental illness who meet Wlz criteria, in order to confront them with the smallest possible burden, for example looking at extending decisions and preventing unnecessary relocations. When it is clear that young people can have access to the Wlz, I will, of course, draw up a detailed implementation plan together with all the parties involved. An important part of this is good consultation with VNG. I will certainly pay full attention to these elements there. In view of that, I would like to give the motion for a resolution as qualified as Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u98	The motion in part No. 13 by Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Slootweg will be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u99	Mr Voordewind has the motion in part No. 14 submitted. This is based on the cooperation between the regime within the Long-Term Care Act and the municipalities. In the operative part, the cabinet is asked to provide the group of young people and their families with comprehensive care and support, and to examine the possibilities for combining support under the Youth Act with care under the Long-Term Care Act. In response, I say as well: the Long-Term Care Act is in front of the Youth Act. It is not the case that young people under these two laws receive the same type of support. That is not the intention of the motion either. However, as far as the example we mentioned in the debate is concerned, education support in the family and a Wlz indication can go hand in hand. Therefore, the starting point is to provide good, appropriate care. Within the Long-Term Care Act it is about the right to care for the individual client. I recognise the importance of connecting with the support that the family, as a whole, needs. I also think we should see this motion in that light. In that light, I would give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u100	The Voordewind motion in part No. 14 gets judgment room. Mrs. Bergkamp, you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u101	I have a question about the interpretation of the motion. I understood from the Secretary of State in the debate that it is already possible. At a time when a young person is going to be covered by the Wlz and there is a need for education support, this can be regulated by the Youth Act. I wonder what new things this motion contains, other than what the Secretary of State has already said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u102	I see a plus here. We always mention the example of education support in addition to a Wlz indication. The motion calls for all possibilities of cooperation to be identified and discussed with the parties concerned. I do not rule out the possibility of more full cooperation than the classic example that we have always mentioned. In that sense, I can see the added value of this and I would like to give the House's ruling motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u103	One last question about this. It is stated in the recital that the Wlz does not actually provide comprehensive diagnostics, although the Minister, or the Secretary of State, I always make mistakes in this regard, in my opinion, indicate that the healthcare provider also looks comprehensively. Is this consideration still correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u104	The healthcare provider looks if it is good integral, but the CIZ looks at the complaints with which the client comes and then looks at an individual arrangement based on the Long-Term Care Act. I also said in my first term that the CIZ could, for example, point out to the healthcare provider or parents that it might be desirable to add a different arrangement from the municipal domain. But the integral indication from the CIZ does relate to the law within the Wlz. There is an integrated approach to people who, for example, have a combination of a ggz disorder and a disability. That's what we're gonna do with this law. In addition, there are other arrangements within the family that are outside the Wlz regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u105	It's about my motion. I can agree with the words of the Secretary of State, but then I agree with his own answer in the written round, because it already shows that the indication, the diagnostics, is limited for the Wlz. This does not take place in an integral way; that is why we need the care of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u106	I was just checking it out. We also have an experimental article for the pgb right now, don't we? Why couldn't this question be worked out in that sense? I really wonder if this is not a bit of an unnecessary motion, because we already have all kinds of means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u107	I just want to make sure I understand Mr Slootweg correctly. Does he refer to the pgb under the Long-Term Care Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u108	There is a decision on an integral pgb. It contains an experimental article, in which I think all these elements can get a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u109	I don't think I'm standing here defending a motion. I read the motion in such a way that the next question is put to the cabinet. If you take an integrated approach and see the human being as a whole, several spokesmen have said so with so many words: see man as a whole and functioning within the family system, especially among young people, what this is about specifically, then look at what possibilities there are. The experimental article may be one of them, but perhaps there are other routes without pgb that are much more obvious. There are also arrangements that are conceivable in which there is no pgb at all, but in which other rights exist on the basis of the Youth Act or the Wmo. The Wmo then applies to an adult in the family, in support. I don't see why it has to go through the pgb route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u110	Thank you. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u111	The motion in part No. 15 is about the budgets and the fear that we may not have enough money to deliver good care in the future. In the operative part, Mr Hijink asked the government to prevent shortages within the Wlz in the future opening up of the Wlz to young people with serious mental problems. I think that is a very sympathetic idea, but I am afraid that Mr Hijink is asking me about it. It's premature. I can't promise now that I'm going to organize enough budget anyway. The cabinet is wider than the gentleman standing here. If it turns out that there are resources available, I do not know how comforting that thought is for Mr Hijink, he has given me a very good advocate for what he wants, namely that there is enough budget available to provide young people with adequate assistance. But that will be taken into account in the overall balance of the cabinet. No matter how sympathetic I am to the motion, and no matter how much I am an advocate for the organisation of sufficient budget, I would like to discourage this motion, because I simply cannot make this happen. I can't say I'm gonna take care of that one way or the other in the cabinet. The motion in part No. That's 15 I'm not telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u112	Yes, thank you. The motion-Hijink in part No. 15 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u113	Mr Renkema has asked two questions. The first is: can we talk about this in June 2020? Yeah, let's just agree on that: June 2020. Then there's a month to it. It's gonna be a lot of work, but we're used to it. The House of Representatives is about its own agenda. It can then put it on the agenda in the same month. We're gonna live to see it. Mr Renkema's second question concerned additional information on budgetary effects. In the 2021 budget, the Cabinet will address current insights into the financial impact of the legislative proposal. We'll make sure they're insightful and that you can trace them out as well. So this point is reflected in the budget. Mr. Chairman. I didn't write down any further questions. I would once again like to thank the Chamber for its strong support for this bill. I would like to leave it at that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u114	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-14.u115	I would like to inform Members that the vote on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions tabled will take place on Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State and his support for the input into the debate. The same goes, of course, for the Members of Parliament and their support and also for our support. I would like to thank the people in the gallery for their interest. The same applies to those who have followed this debate in a different way. I suggest we suspend until 6.30 p.m. Then we'll continue with the VAO Building Statement.
