ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u1	The next item is the debate on the results of the JOB monitor and the admission policy in VMBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u3	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u4	"Vmbo" you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u5	Did I say "vmbo"? No, I mean Mbo. I've been looking at The Lime Mother, so vmbo's on the tip of my tongue. Sorry about that. A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. Thank you for joining us. We have eight participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Özdil and he has six minutes of speaking time, like everyone else. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 24% of MBO students still don't know where to go with their complaints. 29% is not satisfied with how the school handles their complaints. 24% do not consider themselves well informed about rights and obligations. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks considers it important that MBO students can have physical contact if they have doubts or complaints about their training or otherwise, especially since most MBO students are younger than students in higher education and therefore do not always know what to do with their complaints. The service document Complaint treatment in the MBO does not advise institutions to set up a single point of contact for this purpose. I have the following three questions for the Minister. How many percent of the MBO institutions already have such a physical window? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that each institution should be able to offer a physical complaint counter and, if so, will it anchor this in the law? Is the Minister prepared to also provide an ombudsman at every MBO institution? This Ombudsman can inform students, but can also mediate and assist in the lodging of a complaint. The JOB has been asking for this for a long time. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the MBO must also join an independent law college as soon as possible. A law college is much more low-threshold than a step to civil justice and has proven its usefulness in higher education. The Minister writes to the Chamber that she wants to explore the possibility of seeking for the MBO connection with the College of Appeal for the Examinations of the MBO or the College of Appeal for Higher Education. Why is the Minister only going to explore these options and is it not taking immediate action to set this in motion? Then there's the participation. Since 2011, the existence of a student council in the MBO is mandatory, but the monitor shows that almost half of the MBO students do not know if there is a student council. And that is worrying as far as GroenLinks is concerned. I have the following three questions for the Minister. What is the Minister going to do to increase this awareness? Think, for example, of funding of campaign resources. Sees the Minister opportunities to, for example, provide target grants to student councils that can be used to increase visibility. The JOB monitor also shows that less than half of the students are convinced that the school attaches importance to their opinion. Why is that number so low? Does the Minister agree with us that there is an incentive for institutions to create a cultural change? Well, then, admission policy. Since August 2017, MBO students have a right of admission. That is a great asset for GroenLinks and we follow closely whether institutions follow suit, but to our great surprise there is already a silent selection, a silent numerus fixus based on "who comes first, first served." No less than 25 institutions apply that principle of "first come, first served," according to research carried out by the Keuzegids. Students need to register as soon as possible through this rat race to get ahead of other students. The danger is that young people will have to make their choice of study hastily. But choosing a study is a life-defining choice. Isn't it crazy that MBO students are being hunted down to make that choice super fast? In response to my written questions, the Minister states that it is important for MBO schools to communicate properly about the registration dates, but that registration date is completely unknown for many students, according to the Keuzegids. For some training courses the registration date may be on 1 October, for others it is 1 December. As far as we are concerned, all the institutions must open their tenders on the same day. It is also primarily the responsibility of the Minister to bring this to the attention of all students. That is what the next two questions are about. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that one registration date is used? And is the Minister, as a system-responsible executive, going to launch a national campaign to publicise this? Mr. Chairman. Then it's college fees. The JOB monitor shows that almost half, 43% to be precise, of the students purchased books and teaching materials are not used. Last year, research by RTL News showed that the average student lost €670 in extra study costs in the first year. For some courses, this even amounts to €1,300 extra, as in nursing. That's a huge amount for a lot of students. We, together with the CDA, have made this a point in an earlier debate. I am pleased that the Ministry, together with the MBO Council and the JOB, agreed that institutions will now take responsibility for the teaching materials that the student still has to follow his or her education. Still, I'm wondering. There are appointments now, but are students aware of this? To what extent are these agreements also respected and enforced? Who's watching? What do these agreements look like in concrete terms? And is the Minister prepared to anchor these agreements in the law so that this can not be broken? Finally, Mr President. All the points I have made illustrate the far too low social appreciation for MBO in the Netherlands. I get the impression that this Minister is prepared to do something about it. My group welcomes this, for example when it comes to our idea of calling MBO students in future under the law "students." These are all good steps, but my group is sad that the Minister does not seem to be ready to take the next logical step. That's a title for graduate MBO students. Research by the EenVandaag Opinion Panel, co-founded by the JOB, shows that 63% of MBO students want a title, just like in higher education. Therefore, my final question to the Minister: does she agree with GroenLinks that the award of a title for students contributes to self-confidence and social appreciation? And is she prepared to look at this with us, especially because we are working on an own-initiative paper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u7	Good. Thank you. Then there is Mrs van den Hul from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the compliments towards the JOB for another solid monitor, the tenth even this time: a beautiful lustrum. No less than 264.532 students participated, and with this the monitor makes the voice of MBO students sound loud and clear, even tonight here in the Dutch House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. MBO is doing well in the Netherlands. Students give their education on average a 7.1. I must say that on my work visits I am always very impressed by the passion with which many teachers in the MBO are working to prepare our future professionals for the future. But there are also points of improvement. I will mention some of them. First of all, the school costs, which are rising, by the way. We welcome the hand-off school fees that the Minister sent with her letter of July last year, in particular point 16: "Olders and students who cannot have the educational supplies and/or pay the voluntary contribution can go to the school for help." Of course, your parents' wallet must never decide what opportunities you get at school. Can the Minister say anything about the current state of affairs? How is the implementation of these intentions now going? In the meantime, who monitors progress, including from the MBO student fund? And what if there are complaints? Where can you go as a student? Mr Özdil talked about it: too much of the participants in the JOB monitor do not know where to go. Shouldn't every school therefore have an ombudsperson where students can go with questions and complaints? We too would like to hear the Minister's views on this idea. Mr. Chairman. One of the complaints we hear from students is about education itself. Fortunately, students are on average satisfied with their education, but especially with the general education courses it can really be better. For example, 4% of the respondents did not receive Dutch, 7% did not receive mathematics and 8% did not receive English, of the students at level 4. I wonder how the Minister assesses these figures. Does she agree with us that both Dutch and English as well as computational education are essential ingredients for this famous threefold qualification of students in our MBO, namely profession, follow-up education and functioning in society? And that brings me to my next point. Internships are also such an essential ingredient of our vocational education. Every student in the MBO must be sure of a good internship place, but unfortunately it is not yet that far; not by a long shot, even. As many as 18% of the bol-students have difficulty finding an internship and unfortunately we have to note that internship discrimination remains a persistent problem. In the preparation of my own initiative paper on equal opportunities, I spoke to Vienna, who, as a trans-woman, faced prejudices at her internship site. At least 20 internships called them. I quote: "But as soon as I had imagined, I heard the confusion on the other side of the line. Of course, they didn't expect Vienna to have such a low boy voice. None of the companies invited me. Writing letters worked better. My resume was good and I was regularly invited to a conversation, but always the result was, of course, that I didn't quite fit the profile. In the end, it was an employee of my school who stood up for me. He found a place, but only on the condition that I would not wear makeup and only unisex clothes." Many students with headscarf, with a non-Dutch surname or with a disability also have difficulty finding an internship place. For people like Vienna and all those others who run into internship discrimination for their looks, last name or identity, we need to do more, because everyone needs to be sure of a good internship. That is why I ask the Minister whether she agrees with us that schools can and should do more here. Can she indicate whether she thinks that internship counsellors are currently given sufficient time to supervise students properly? For students with disabilities there can also be a lot improved in the MBO, according to the monitor. 24% of students with disabilities do not report to school that they have a disability, 25% are dissatisfied with the resources offered and 21% feel that teachers do not take sufficient account of their limitations. Recently, the Chamber adopted our motion on the importance of supporting pupils and students at each school. We would like to hear from the Minister how she will ensure in the MBO that students with disabilities can expect a point of contact, such as a care coordinator, at any school. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in this context, I should like to express my concern about the imminent shortages of tomorrow's technical professionals. Is it true that some of the technical MBO courses have now reached a student stop? Does the Minister have any idea how many training courses this is about? Can it indicate how this relates to the shortage of teachers, which is now also felt in the MBO, especially in technical subjects? How does the Minister see the role of the Technics Pact in this regard? Has a new driver been appointed there by now? Mr. Chairman. If you want to start a new education, you are rightly being tested for macro-efficiency, but if you as a school, for whatever reason, stop an education, there is no such assessment. Is it not now time for some kind of reverse efficiency test, namely: what is going to go wrong with tomorrow's labour market if this training is no longer available? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u9	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, my party had a beautiful educational symposium at an MBO in Rotterdam. That was beautiful again. There were MBO students who showed what beautiful things they had done abroad, beautiful projects, with which they had enriched themselves and deepened their studies. Of course, this is still a matter of concern: how do we get internationalisation further into the MBO? But we saw mostly students chasing their dreams. For D66 it is very important that students can continue to do so, that they can choose which study they are going to do, that their own preference is not blocked for them. Since the entry right came into force in 2017, this seemed guaranteed, but the study guide reported that the number of courses with a numerus fixus has increased; you don't expect it. By the way, that is exactly the same pattern as in higher education. The MBO Council also notes this. Can the Minister confirm and explain the increase in the number of fixed training courses? Is there an overview of the number of fixus studies in the MBO? The Minister states that there will be a multi-annual review before the summer. Can she say anything about the picture for the coming academic year? What does that look like and what effect does it have on upcoming students? As in higher education, D66 would like institutions to ask the Minister for prior authorisation to set up a numerus fixus on a training course. How does the Minister view that? At present, in many numerus fixus studies, who comes first is the first to be served. Mr Özdil mentioned this. This leads to hasty choices of students and also brings with them self-selection, and often by students who feel less sure of their business. Students who do not yet know exactly what they want to study or are less well supervised are often too late to study their preferences. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. What is the consequence of this on the accessibility and diversity of these studies? It is important that the student's choice of study is his or her own choice, based on fair and optimal information. What is happening right now to promote this? Previously, D66 held a motion proposing that a committee be set up to monitor the general accessibility of higher education. In the vibration, as it is mentioned, of quality, macro-efficiency and accessibility, the first two separate independent institutions are responsible for monitoring this, namely the inspection and the Commission's macro-efficiency MBO. But for perhaps the most important or at least a very important part of that triangle, accessibility, this is not the case, not in higher education and not in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u11	D66 approaches the problem of for example the numerus fixus very much from the individual student. I understand that of D66, but looking at accessibility, for example, is a very close approach to this problem, isn't it? There are training courses in which there is a significant social shortage, such as training care and well-being, education assistant training and childcare training. Surely our first objective should not be to ensure greater accessibility? Then we should ensure that the number of training places shoots through the roof as quickly as possible, so that we can retrain enough people in these deficit sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u12	If you assume accessibility and there is a large number of students who want to do this training, then these courses are expanding. So I don't see the contradiction with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u13	I got the impression that you were more concerned with dividing up the scarcity than with increasing capacity. But if we can find each other to see what we and the Cabinet can do to increase the number of training places in the short term, for those sectors of society in which the deficit is so high, I think we are going to find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u14	Anyway, by not putting a brake on it. That's what it starts with. And if that brake is not there and we also give everyone we can tempt to do that wonderful job of teacher or teaching assistant, then the number of training places will expand. That is therefore an obligation on the institutions to comply with it. Now it is said: we only have a limited number of places, so we just set a numerus fixus. That's exactly what we see in higher education. And I think that we should limit ourselves to that, because our objectives are the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u15	Not always!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u16	No, not always, but in this case, yes. Mr. Chairman. There is no independent body that pays attention to the accessibility of education, and therefore in the MBO, given the above, such a committee could play a role. For who is currently supervising the accessibility of education in the MBO? I would like a response from the Minister to my proposal to keep a closer eye on this accessibility. Then there is the education agreement. My compliments to the Minister for strengthening the legal status of students through the law and in the complaints regime. I would like to comment on the Minister's letter. It lays down the duty of care for students with disabilities or a chronic illness in a law "provided that this does not mean a disproportionate burden on the MBO schools." At the same time, however, we must note that the appropriate education in the MBO is still inadequate. So please explain what exactly is meant by this passage. When is there a disproportionate burden on the MBO schools? Can that ever be at all when it comes to offering opportunities for students with disabilities or chronic illness? It sounds like a way out for institutions to stop these students at the entrance. We wouldn't want that. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about a profiling fund. D66 welcomes the fact that the Minister is working on a law to set up a profiling fund in the MBO as well, because it allows students who are delayed in their studies, for example in pregnancy or through a year in a board or in the student council, to receive support. Finally, D66 wants to ensure that the MBO does not go in the same direction as higher education in terms of pre- and post-gate selection. Dutch education must remain accessible to everyone, so that every student can learn and develop optimally. In that respect, it is worrying that we are now looking at calculation keys for the gate. Fine to determine the math level of students, but first you let people in and then you'll see what level they're at, not the other way around. Otherwise, this seems to be going in the direction of selection at the gate by calculation keys, and my group would not like that. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u17	Thank you. Then Mr El Yassini of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the JOB monitor, the biennial evaluation of what the MBO students want. Before we go into that further, I would like to give some signals from MBO students I speak to all over the country. I want to break a lance for them again today anyway. I am getting the signal, and I hope that many of you will get it, too, that there is still too little appreciation for the MBO, for MBO students and for MBOs. I think that we should really do our best to always bring out how much we appreciate them and that the MBO is the backbone of Dutch society. I actually challenge everyone not to use the products or services of MBOs for a week. I wish everyone the best of luck with that, because that is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u19	GroenLinks cannot agree with what Mr El Yassini has just said. In fact, nobody has to believe us on our blue eyes, because research also shows that the social appreciation of MBO in the Netherlands is far below the OECD average. So we agree on that. My question to Mr El Yassini is about how to remedy it. Does the VVD agree with GroenLinks that, after we have actually started calling MBO students "students" in the law, the next logical step towards recognition is that there will also be recognition in the form of titulature? That's the wish of 63% of the MBO students he just referred to. Is Mr El Yassini willing to fight with GroenLinks for that title?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u20	As far as the VVD is concerned, Mbos already have titles and they can be extremely proud of that. They're nurses, they're cooks, they're carpenters or carpenters, they're nurturing IG. They have titles that they can be incredibly proud of. It is up to us, as representatives of the people, to express to the outside world every time that we cherish and appreciate them. But a titulature as they are used to in higher education... We must ensure that we do not all use English terms at some point, which really only define what they already are, namely a very proud professional, a professional, where society cannot go without. So when it comes to Title: they already have MBOs!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u21	I note from Mr El Yassini's reply to the VVD that he is not prepared to fulfil 63% of the MBO students' desire to obtain a diploma. He ignores that wish. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u22	I think I've been very clear. I'm saying mbos already have titles. But if Mr. Zihni comes with bullshit: with all due respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u23	Mr Özdil. Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u24	Mr Özdil, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u25	You mentioned "Mr. Zihni."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u26	Yes, Zihni Özdil. Sorry, yes, he is. But it's Mr. Zihni Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u27	Let's not get too familiar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u28	If Mr Özdil wants to come up with, with all due respect, nonsense such as 'expert' and 'craftsman', then in my view, 'nurse' has a much stronger social value. That is someone who gives loving care and ensures that our loved ones, our elderly and our sick are cared for and helped. I think that's much more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u29	Mr President, very briefly. It is not a question of Mr Zihni Özdil's wish and not of Mr El Yassini's wish. It concerns 63% of MBO students who say: we do want titles, even English titles, just like in higher education. And the VVD says, "Fuck it." That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u30	Once again, I note that Mr Özdil is listening, but he is not listening. I say very clearly that the titles already exist. Of course, we can also make it "nurse" which is also English-language "chef," or "cook"; that is still English-speaking. But they already have the titles. Let us respect and appreciate those titles, and constantly put them back on the agenda that we cannot do without these people. I will continue with my speech. As I said, I keep making it clear to every debate how much I appreciate the MBO, the MBOs and how much I really see what they stand for, not a bullshit title, that they are really those professional professionals who make sure that we eat, drink and have our shelter, and that we really can't live without them. In the JOB monitor we see a number of good things. Students are generally very satisfied with their training and institution, but at the same time there are still a number of critical points. I'd like to go into that in more detail. We also have a number of questions and comments to the Minister. A number of colleagues have already spoken about school costs and school books. For me and for the VVD, it is still insufferable and inexplicable to explain that mandatory book lists drawn up by schools then result in students who do not use or do not need to use certain books in the classes, and that those books were actually purchased for nothing. We think that is a very bad thing. We would very much like to see if school books are on the mandatory books list and then not used to support teaching by teachers and schools, schools are obliged to buy back these books. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. The second point is the choices. We have talked about this enough in the past. Two years ago, we tabled a motion. The Minister said at one point: when it comes to the examination of the pocket-coating scheme for those choices, I need two years to get things in order. We are now a year and a half away and we see that the biggest problem with those choices was that the examination was not in order. Meanwhile, we have grown from 850 choices to over 1,000, and it continues to grow. The problem remains as well, because both the old and the new choices do not deal with the examination. I think that's weird. I would like to inform the Minister that I would like to see the choice of choice notified to the SBB only if the corresponding examination has already been arranged. This in fact means that if an initiative is submitted to the SBB for which no examination has been made, it is declared inadmissible. I would also like a response from the Minister, please. Finally, the question of admissibility. The VVD simply thinks it is important that the students can make an informed choice for a further education. Experiences from current students play an important role in this. That's why we think it's so good that the JOB monitor comes out. However, I would like to ask the Minister how she intends to ensure that future MBO students can continue to make an informed choice of study, including for the future. And I would like to know from the Minister whether she is satisfied with the frequency with which the JOB monitor is released. I'd like a reaction to that, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Bertema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u32	Mr. Chairman. First about admission policy in the MBO. We are talking about it tonight because De Telegraaf announced on 31 January that there is an increase in the number of courses with a numerus fixus. For us, setting up a fixus in MBO training is not a reason for a debate and certainly not an outraged tone. For us, it is logical that some of the courses are primarily intended for students who have registered in good time, which is often an indication of the motivation of a student, and secondly, for students who have a reasonable perspective of successfully completing the training. These training courses are, as it should be, that fine line between the law on admission law and the law on macro-efficiency. You can't separate one from the other. The legislator states that everyone should be admissible, but also that MBO schools should train students who meet the demand but also the requirements of business. Not so long ago we were talking about all kinds of training courses such as urban dance which offer little or no prospects for job security, on a regular income and thus on a life as a citizen who can shape his or her life independently of government support. Training has reduced competition. That competition consisted of offering pretop guides, just to attract students. They are now focusing more on offering training with a labour market perspective and therefore on training that businesses are asking for. I think it is logical and justified for training courses to apply selection at the front. Setting up a numerus fixus is then a logical consequence. For us, it is a clear indication that MBO schools take that balance between the right of admission and the macro-efficiency seriously, exactly as the legislator envisages. The results from the JOB monitor indicate that a periodically independent research among MBO students has absolute added value. However, MBO schools indicate that this monitor can still be improved. The questionnaire could be shortened and the results could be more easily involved in improving the quality of education. However, the monitor shows that students are still much too often forced to pay for all kinds of materials that they do not use or hardly use during their training. As a teacher, I have struggled with this problem for years, but in the meantime I have been in the Chamber for nine years. In nine years, therefore, the problem has not been addressed. The rocks, as well as the MBO Council, must now finally take action on this, because this is not a very complex problem. Come on, Minister and MBO Council, finally do something about it! Mr. Chairman. As of 2021, the Minister wants the education agreement to be removed from the MBO. It is not good enough, especially when it comes to guaranteeing the rights of pupils. We therefore welcome the fact that the position of MBO students will be legally anchored. In higher education, the rights and obligations are laid down by law. I do have a question for the Minister on this. It wants to abolish the parental signature for minor pupils, where the education agreement is now co-signed by parents. That is precisely what would be a source of administrative overload. It seems to me that parents of minors always have to sign in to make an agreement legally valid. I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, the signing of an educational contract by a pupil gives the school an explicit opportunity to indicate to a pupil and the parents that they are committed to the rights but also to the obligations imposed by the contract. I always thought that was a good time myself. It may be symbolic, but it is important to make parents and pupils aware of their rights and obligations. The Minister already says in her letter that she does not want to prescribe the method of registration and registration. In doing so, it gives institutions the freedom to dress up as they wish. They will, of course, choose the path that takes the least effort: general, standardised, without personal attention. That's not the way to deal with mbos, is my thesis. I would also like a response from the Minister. We also ask the Minister to hurry up with an independent, accessible body where students can go with complaints. It can't be that MBO students have to go to court for that. We all agree on that. It seems to us that it is fairly easy to set up and publicise an Ombudsman in every MBO institution. The MBO Council also states that the current infrastructure regarding the complaints scheme is insufficient and too confusing for students. So just take care of it. Can the Minister promise that she can do so in the short term? Let me ask you a brief question about this. Many MBO institutions are affiliated to the LKC, the National Complaints Commission on Education, but not all. Why not all of them? And how did the institutions that are not members of that LKC arrange that? One more comment on the math test. Due to the expiry of the mandatory mathematics test in secondary education and the maintenance obligation in MBO, MBO courses have virtually no understanding of the computational skills of students entering the MBO. The MBO Council is of the opinion that MBO schools can cope with this by asking for attention in the course of the study interview and possibly giving it a diagnostic picture. We find that rather pointless, because it will not be an admission test. Suppose an MBO school finds that a prospective student can barely calculate after his or her computational skills are diagnosed, what then? What can such a school do to prevent such a student from drowning because he or she simply does not have the required computing skills? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u33	Thank you. Another question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u34	I figured, what's taking him so long? But thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u35	Sorry. What else can a school do? Well, teaching math, I'd say. I do not know what Mr Bertema's answer to this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u36	Well, that sounds like a good plan. But, yeah, it's all kind of tricky. Because you can then offer a calculation course, which leads to major problems in most MBO schools, because they are not wonders of organization, I can give you. But what if it doesn't work out? Then such a student is a year, maybe two years later, and then it turns out that counting but not getting in order. Then what are we going to do, I ask Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u37	I'll ask the questions here, Mr. Chairman. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u38	Let me get this straight: what I want to say is that we might be too late. Then another two years of this precious time of education have been lost for such a student, and that is a shame to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u39	Of course, I agree. However, this evening's discussion should not take place in order to discuss the calculation test in secondary education once again. But the thought about what's coming is that the math improves. As we know, we think differently about this. I am concerned now with the fact that in the situation as it is today, as before and still today, students will apply to an MBO with different skills: one will be more competent than the other in calculating, and by the way also in other subjects. My thesis as a teacher is: you take that into account as an institution, so you're going to align your education with the level of entry. What I fear is that I hope Mr Beertema will reassure me in this regard..... is that this will not be considered a disguised selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u40	Hidden selection? I have nothing against selection, which I have already made clear in my contribution. What I do object to and look back on with sadness is the drama of the calculation test, which was mainly destroyed by your party and by other left-wing parties, because it was and could not be done. Every next floor in education is incredibly affected, and education is becoming incredibly cautious about it. That makes so much sense. They get whole cohorts of students who have no idea what their math is. Now something is being made up, but I think it is a cramped idea to start using a diagnostic tool at the very beginning of an intake to see what is going on with that computational skill. Then maybe we'll add some extra points. It's gonna be a big mess, it's not gonna be anything, and you know it. It's just a shame that the vo shouldn't take that math test from you, which would give the mbo but also the hbo much more certainty about who they're getting in the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u41	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u42	For me, mathematics may be part of the mathematics program, wherever it belongs, and not in this damned test, which has stood in the way of nine years of good mathematics education. In short, that is my view. As far as I am concerned, in the situation we are now in, does Mr Beertema now think that a diagnostic test for the port of the MBO should be a selection or not, taking into account the law on accessibility? Can it be in his eyes now or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u43	As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u44	I hear Mr Van Meenen talking about this. He says he doesn't want to go for selection, but you do. I think I would agree with your opinion on this, because we have also tabled a motion recently. Don't you agree with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u45	"Doesn't Mr. Beertema agree"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u46	... with us, with the VVD, that precisely in the specific courses where computational skills are needed, such as the course of lab or technical training, it is not the same thing as pre-checking as saying: come and become lifeguards, you don't have to be able to swim?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u47	I think it's a nice equation. I totally agree, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u48	A nice, warm ending. Then we are going to listen to Mr Kwint of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It takes a year, but then you also have a debate about the JOB monitor and the long-awaited research on the education agreement. Let me start with a compliment. It is a good thing that this Minister wanted to take the step that Minister Bussemaker did not dare to take: the end of the education agreement. The keeper wins. Where the SP and GroenLinks advocated the end of this agreement two years ago, the Minister does so after the investigation. Great, because, and we're not at all surprised, the thing didn't deliver what it promised. It was mainly a bureaucratic piece of paper. In addition, and this was a very important matter for us, this agreement is sometimes used in practice to remove students from training. It therefore served more the interests of the educational institution than the interests of the student. If something doesn't work, it's better to stop and choose to anchor the rights of MBOs in the law. It is good that this is going to happen now, and it is also good that we continue to eliminate other forms of legal inequality, for example in dispute resolution. For years the situation has persisted that the legal status of an MBO is much worse than that of an HBO or a university student. Another point is the Profiling Fund, but we are going to talk about this later in terms of access to education. So much for the compliments. Then there is the registration facility and training capacity. Study Link has been used in higher education for a long time. I read in the Minister's letter that a system is now being created to facilitate that central registration for MBOs. That seems rather impractical to me. If there is already a system that works properly, could we not just join it? Maybe I'm overlooking a very obvious objection, but that makes more sense to me. At the numerus fixus we also see some problems. As I have just said to Mr Van Meenen, a few of the courses that already apply a numerus fixus in some locations are those for teaching assistant, care and well-being, and teaching assistant childcare. In the meantime, I can tell you from my own experience that the waiting lists in childcare are really quite large and that the social problem is really quite big. If there's a capacity shortage... What do you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u50	Well, we'd rather keep that out of treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u51	The temptation is very great to repeat it now, but I'm afraid my microphone will be turned off. If the problems in these sectors are so great, no one denies that, in my opinion, a numerus fixus is extremely undesirable, for example, based on capacity size. If there is a shortage of capacity, then the solution is not to do something about admission, but rather to increase capacity. What is the Minister doing in consultation with these MBOs to ensure that we train sufficient teaching assistants, care workers and childcare staff? 'Cause we're really years behind. That's not the fault of this minister, but it's up to her to solve it. What is it doing where the capacity of MBO institutions is really lacking? Then the math test. In the end, it was April. Only in April was it clear for teachers and students in secondary school and MBO. As far as we are concerned, that is a mockery. Because the coalition parties could not agree with each other, teachers live in uncertainty. This means that MBO teachers now have less than five months to prepare for the changes next year. Are there gonna be enough math teachers next year? Or are there going to be big holes? Because if it is already stated in the JOB monitor, among other things, that 10% of the MBOs have not received any computational education at all, I see the Minister shaking all her head, so I'm sure she'll be able to take my concerns away soon. I'm worried about how that's gonna be next year. What does it mean when the cabinet writes that diagnostic tests can be considered in study advice procedures? So you're still doing a test before you get to go to the MBO. Isn't that the case with other courses in other places? You're in pre-school, so you can get in. Will students also be admitted if they do not take the test if they decide not to take part in it? How much pressure can be put into a conversation like this? The moment someone talks to you for 15 minutes and says, "I don't think you're gonna make it this way; I'm gonna do something else," I imagine this has its impact on the enthusiasm with which a student wants to start an education. Finally, some points from the JOB monitor. First of all, once again, I would like to congratulate you on your research. In the meantime, it has become a cornerstone of our recurring MBO debates. Earlier, I mentioned the 10% that doesn't take a math class. Furthermore, the SP finds it completely incomprehensible, as Mr El Yassini has already mentioned, that 43% of the MBOs must purchase materials or books that are not subsequently used. It is not the first time that this problem has been identified. In fact, it gets worse every year. That is why the proposal includes Mr El Yassini. Didn't use the book? Well, then you'll have to pay for your education. It's okay to have the book back. They'll see what they're doing with that. But at the moment when the programme prescribes a book that you do not use then, such an education is due to laxity or perhaps negligence money out of the pockets of the students. I don't think that's a good idea. There is a question from Mr Özdil, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u52	I just have a very enlightening question, because I fully agree with Mr Kwint. In my contribution, I also mentioned the unnecessary school costs. A year ago GroenLinks, among others, made a point of this. My question is whether Mr Kwint also agrees with me that it should be enshrined in the law that unnecessary school costs cannot be incurred, for example by lending things on loan or by letting the institution buy back unused things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u53	In fact, I think it was on the basis of a motion that we ourselves tabled that study materials should be made available through training rather than books, but, for example, the scissors sets of the hairdressing training or the powder boxes of the visa training programme should not be made available because you cannot expect students to buy them. Is that an answer to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u54	Yeah, I think so. But my question is also more about the specific point I referred to in my contribution, namely that educational institutions are required by law to recover unused books, so that is specified in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u55	My proposal is literally that they are obliged to take it back. Whether it should be by law or not, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. I don't care about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u56	We are indeed of the same opinion. I heard Mr Özdil talking about two things that had nothing to do with each other. On the one hand, it was about the fact that there is already teaching material at all and it was about the question whether if young people who have some difficulty in paying for it, the school should not pay for it. But on the other hand, we're talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u57	You're interrupting Mr. Kwint, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u58	Yes, because I just want to know how Mr. Kwint...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u59	You want to know how I feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u60	Yes. Do you agree with me on that? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would just like to know whether Mr Kwint also sees that clear distinction between teaching material and additional teaching costs on the one hand and the unused textbooks on the other. In my opinion, the focus was precisely on unused materials which the school ultimately has to pay back and not so much on the school paying all the tuition costs itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u61	You know the SP as a reliable, bridge-building middle party, so let me also perform this function between these two gentlemen. Yes, it is indeed two different things: the study materials and the question of whether books can be bought back. On the other hand, if you don't have it that wide, it both adds up to your study costs. Regardless of whether they're unused books or a powder box you buy, it's both school costs. So yes, they are different and yes, they also have to do with each other. Last item on school costs. We get signals from teachers in particular who recognize the complaint of the unused books, but who also say that this is often the case because educational publishers do a type of tying where your software license and book are compulsory. Then you use the software to practice assignments, but you hardly actually use the book. Is the Minister aware of that problem? Does she recognize that? Does she see a role for herself in this? It seems to us a shame if we bake the pockets of educational publishers with the money of MBOs. Finally. Dealing with a disability is often difficult enough, especially when you're young. Therefore, the fact that a quarter of pupils do not report a restriction to the school is worrying, firstly because we are convinced that this may have a negative impact on learning outcomes. Negatively said, you deprive an institution of the ability to make adjustments that could make it easy for you to attend education. Secondly, students do not seem to feel free or safe enough to tell about their limitations. Does the Minister recognize these two statements? And what else does she think training can do to ensure that there is a place on the MBO for everyone who has done the decent pre-training?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u62	Thank you. Then Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u63	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I wanted to limit myself from the SGP to three points. These are not all new points, but they go a step further here and there, I hope. First of all, the question of choice of study. Good intentions can sometimes turn out very wrong. We must all have had that experience sometime. The legislator wants to assist students in their choice of study by setting a timely registration date. However, in the case of training which has a limited number of places available, it is often the first to come, first to serve. The most vulnerable students could then be put at a disadvantage. That's a reason to be alert about that. The Minister refers to the mid-term evaluation of whether there is a link between the date of registration and the increase in the number of training courses with reduced registration. I get that. I am also in favour of following the route carefully in this way. But on the other hand, may I assume that the Minister is not sitting still waiting for that moment? My question to the Minister is therefore: can she now report more on the basis of signals she receives? And is it possible that these signals require precautions? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the cost of school. I agree with my colleagues: there is a certain amount of error in the MBO on this point, that is how the signals are. Then it can indeed be about buying materials, or a beautiful jacket of €100 with the logo of the institution which then never has to be worn or books that do not need to be used. I do not know whether a measure such as selling back to the school books that have not been used is the solution. I think it's a little more complicated than that. That is why we have a slightly different perspective. However, we do have the question of how it is possible that such situations still occur so often, while students have all kinds of rights and powers to combat this. In concrete terms, if participation and participation have practical added value somewhere, then that is the point. Does the Minister share this thought? Mr. Chairman. The third point is the education agreement. I have already drawn attention to the fact that, in the previous cabinet period, MBO suffers most of all sectors from red tape. The education agreement has or had an important part to play in this. I am therefore also pleased that the final decision has been taken to abolish this obligation. The study clearly shows that it is not an appropriate instrument and does not substantially help those involved. But I'm gonna take it a little further. Is part of the analysis in the study not applicable to the practical agreements concluded in the MBO? My specific question to the Minister is as follows. Perhaps it sees opportunities to make a profit in this respect, in the sense of reducing red tape. It may then be possible to take account of the difference between the vocational training and the accompanying learning path. Will the Minister also look at this in the further course? Mr. Chairman. Moreover, there is also uncertainty about the education agreement in other sectors of education. That may sound a bit strange, because this agreement is not in the law and is not legally applicable to other sectors, but remarkably, judges have different views in their assessments. This has led to legal uncertainty and inequality in practice for a long time. For example, a recent study by the lawyer Voskamp indicates that it would be good if the legislator were to provide more clarity on this issue. My question to the Minister is whether she is going to involve this issue in the screening of the legal regulations and the legislative proposal that is under preparation. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u64	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Kuik from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u65	Mr. Chairman. We do not have a good overview of which training courses use a numerus fixus. I think that this is particularly a problem when it comes to sectors such as technology and care, where we need a lot of people. Because we shouldn't want to. For example, there is a great demand for craftsmanship in technology and the government invests 100 million extra in VMBO. Shouldn't there be a stop to technical training at the MBO? Or think about the care. The CDA wants to know where the bottlenecks are when it comes to sectors that are jumping over people. Does the Minister agree with us that it is undesirable to have a training stop in sectors where people are badly needed? And is the Minister considering taking steps at this point? Most of the fixus courses in the MBO are based on the principle of "first come, first served." Does the Minister also see a risk here that students are rushing to choose a course of study or that a particular group is excluded because it is less assertive or because the parents are less involved? Is there any consideration as to whether there are other objective criteria for selection? The idea that is already stressful to me is that MBO settings can use different login dates. It is relevant for students to have this clear, especially when it comes to training courses that apply: first come, first served. For the sake of clarity, I think it would be desirable for this to be a national date, so that it can be clearly communicated to the upcoming students and their parents and so that everyone has equal opportunities in this respect. Does the Minister agree with me on this? If not, what is the advantage of these different login dates? In addition, I understand that for many people, it is unclear what is happening now with the right of admission and the deadline of 1 April. It sometimes seems that prospective students no longer have the right to apply if they register after 1 April. As far as I know, they have the same right on April 2nd. Can the Minister clarify this? A recent report shows that parents indicate that information on training is a kind of advertising. They would like to be better informed about the estimated cost of study and they would also like to have a real picture of study and work. The CDA has tabled a motion on this subject in the debate on macro-efficiency. Can the Minister say anything more about the impact here? Mr. Chairman. At the time of the introduction of the law on admission, my colleague Michel Rog has already expressed the concern that this law could lead to an increase in the number of early school leavers. A recent letter from the Minister also shows that the number of vs'ers has increased. I would like to know whether the Minister sees a relationship between these two developments and whether this aspect will also be taken into account in this summer's evaluation to the Chamber. Then I have two points on the JOB monitor. First of all, the choices. The CDA sees choice as a good tool to respond to innovation and societal developments. Now a large proportion of students are still very dissatisfied with the offer of choices in the programme. However, this appears to vary enormously from one domain to another. The SBB has offered a position paper to the minister about choice sharing. I would like to know from the Minister what she thinks is causing the discontent about the choices and to what extent the measures proposed by the SBB are the solution to this. Secondly, almost half of MBOs have bought books that stay in plastic because they are not used. Of course, this doesn't make any sense. Schools are obliged to keep costs as low as possible. This was also news a year ago. What happened in the meantime to deal with this? Mr. Chairman. Last but not least: the education agreement. Fortunately, the Minister has also come to the conclusion that this method leads to unnecessary bureaucracy. I am pleased that this is being abolished and I am looking forward to the next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u66	In line with the law on the right of admission, even in the same law, the binding study advice has also been introduced. We all know that the administration of the institutions was strongly opposed to this right of admission. Now we see there's more fallout. Does Mrs Kuik exclude that this is because that binding study opinion is actually used as a sort of selection right after the gate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u67	Ha! I can't just rule that out. It is something that could perhaps be highlighted in the evaluation. So let's definitely look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u68	However, Mrs Kuik and I agree that the evaluation should examine the impact of the binding study opinion on the failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u69	Yeah, sure. If you see the vsv figures, so the numbers of early school leaving, you also want to know how that happened and how we can tackle these negative incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u70	Clear. Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u71	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad we can talk about the JOB monitor. I would like to congratulate the JOB on the excellent work they have done. It really helps that we have that monitor, because it shows a number of things around the mbo. I will try to cluster the questions as much as possible, but sometimes I will do so in the order in which the questions were asked. That keeps it clear for everyone. Let me start with the right of complaint, because many of you have drawn attention to this. Since last year, the complaint law has been applied in the MBO. We've made that legal since then. In the meantime, all MBO institutions have a complaint regime or a complaints committee, or are members of the National Complaints Commission. I think it is important with you that the complaint handling is accessible, accessible and independent. We see that several MBO settings have set it up in different ways. It is good to stress here once again that student councils have the right to consent to the complaints regime. There is, therefore, a diversity, but in all cases the student council must agree to the arrangement that exists for that institution. They can therefore request a one-stop shop within an institution, because it is one of the wishes that emerges. One of the questions raised in connection with the JOB monitor was also discussed. This is how it works on a number of rocks. There are nice examples, for example at the Nova College or at the ROC of Amsterdam, where they have that one point of contact. I'll take another look at this with the JOB. The request for a single point of contact also emerges from the JOB monitor. We see that in a number of places and we see nice examples of that. At the same time, we also see that students have a right of consent. I think it is useful to bring these good examples to the attention of the JOB so that it can spread them in the country and say: this is also why you can ask. So that's how you can fix it. Some of you asked if there should be an ombud function per setting. There are already MBO institutions that have such an internal Ombudsman. To Mr Beertema, who specifically asked for this, I say that there are also a lot of institutions that are members of the National Complaints Commission. This applies to about two thirds of the institutions. Not all of them are. In two weeks, I'll have an administrative meeting with the JOB and this is exactly what I want to discuss with them. I also see a number of wishes emerging from the JOB monitor. We've set this up in the law since last year. So it's only been working recently. We already see some very nice, good examples in the country. There is a member of the National Complaints Commission or a one-stop-shop office. For example, students in legal services set up such a counter. Before we go back to working on that law, I'd like to work with the JOB to see how we can put these best practices together. In combination with the right of consent of the student councils, you should be able to ensure that it is arranged in all institutions to the satisfaction of the student. I don't think we should go there and dictate from here how every institution should do that. Institutions are also different from each other. For example, they differ in size and population. On the contrary, I like the fact that this can be arranged in dialogue with the students. We can, however, ensure that the good examples that exist are better brought to our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u73	With regard to GroenLinks, it is a good idea to look together with the field at which institutions such a complaint counter can be set up. For us, it is important that the starting point or framework of these discussions is that the complaints counter should be accessible. For MBO students this often means also physically accessible. My question as to whether the request is for the Minister or whether she can promise that she will at least proactively include it in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u74	Sure. I started by saying that it is important for me that accessibility, that accessibility, is there. I read in the JOB monitor that the wish is often: can there be one physical point? I can imagine that, too. You want to go somewhere. You want to be able to talk to someone about that. That's gotta be low-threshold. So we're gonna take this into the conversation. For me, the question is also leading how students prefer to have this settled in their institution. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the MBO student's legal status. I am pleased that the abolition of the ALSO, the education agreement, is good for most of you. We actually want to better anchor the rights and obligations of the MBO student in the law, as we do in higher education. I come to that because there were also a number of questions of interpretation on your part. Of course, there's another bill coming. It's good to go into all those specific questions in that bill. I have heard your questions very well and I will make sure that specific attention is paid to them. I am referring, for example, to Mr Beertema's question on the expiry of the parents' signature on minor pupils. He asked: how do you see this and, for example, does this not lead to complications in relation to the duties of minors? I think it is right that we should just have a good debate on all of this in the legislative proposal. I have also heard the questions raised by the SGP. I will also take it with me in the drafting of the bill, which I hope I will be able to put in your Chamber as soon as possible. This also concerns Mr Özdil's question. He asked if we could join the College of Occupation we have in higher education. I will also make that assessment of the legislative proposal, but it is a good thing that you have already given me a number of considerations in this debate. Mr Özdil also had a question about the participation of students. The monitor says that half of the students don't know very well that there is a student council at the institution. What can we do to increase that fame? That is a legitimate and important point. As I reported in my letter of 10 July 2018, I had a meeting at my ministry last summer with the participation councils in the MBO. I invited the JOB and all the student council members. I talked to them about how we can improve student participation. How can we help you with the familiarity and communication with your supporters? Because of course a student council only works well if it can maintain contact with the grassroots and hear what their wishes are. You can then let us know back what you have achieved, because that often increases the enthusiasm for that council. What struck me was that almost all members of the student councils indicated that they were actually very satisfied with what they had to say at their institutions. Actually, I heard from them that they were almost pleasantly surprised, in the sense of: well, we can do a lot. They also said: when we look at the points on which we have the right of assent, we actually see that very well. I heard someone else saying here, but they had the impression that they were really being listened to. I thought, "That's profit." But, of course, things can also be improved. A number of things were mentioned: the teaching culture in guiding the student councils, ensuring sufficient facilities and broadening student participation. So it has to be more than just the council. Students should also participate more widely. I have provided a grant to JOB to support the student councils and ensure that they are helped to make their work public. They can also campaign a bit at their institution and they can further professionalize. I leave it to JOB and the councils themselves to prioritize what they think is most urgent and what needs to be done. I am concerned, among other things, with strengthening the position of the participants, informing students about their rights and duties and making the work of these councils known. I hope to have another conversation like this next year, because I really enjoyed being able to talk to all those student representatives for once. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the most important point of this debate, when I look at how many questions are being asked about it. Then it is actually about the right of admission and where that leads when it comes to the numerus fixus. I'd like to put something right. One reason for this debate was a message in De Telegraaf that the number of numerus fixus in the MBO would have increased. The Telegraaf took that out of a press release when the selection guide was published. If you look very closely at that press release, it does not say that the number of numerus fixus increases. An image is sketched which almost gave you the impression that it rose very quickly. I have also seen the letter that the MBO Council wrote to you, which includes such a phrase. I've re-examined what they're basing that on. That was based on the same press release. In fact, I also got the answer that you couldn't put it so hard, but that it was a conclusion following the debate we had, for example, on the training of artists. The conclusion, overlooking everything, is that we do not know very well whether there is more numerus fixus than in the past. At the request of Mr Van Meenen, the Act of Admissions agreed that we would monitor that. It has rightly been asked: if we introduce that right of admission, will you not get a brake on the other hand due to a numerus fixus per education? For that reason, it has been agreed with the Chamber that you will be given a monitor to keep an eye on that. I'll give you that monitor for the summer. Then we know exactly whether there is indeed an increase and whether we should be concerned about that. We had a debate here not so long ago in which I also tasted that some of you wanted a numerus fixus in a number of training courses. It also matters with which courses this numerus fixus is then. I agree with all of you that we should not want a numerus fixus to be created in training for technology, care, education assistant, where there are shortages. Before you say you have to limit yourself to that, I'd like to know exactly what's going on. Next thing you know, we're solving a problem here that doesn't exist. My reasoning is that I first want to know what the reality is; first those figures above the table, and then take action. You've had all kinds of questions about this, but let's talk about it this way. You'll get that monitor as soon as possible, with a policy response from my side. I have listened to you very carefully and I fully agree with you on that. If it turns out that we have an increase in numerus fixus in deficit education, we have to do something about that. That is as ready as a whistle, but let us have the debate and not now, on the basis of assumptions, because we read something in a press release that was not in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u75	Does the Minister agree with me that it is quite crazy that we do not have an overview of which MBO courses have established a numerus fixus? Does the Minister agree with me that it would be a good thing for the institutions that want to introduce them to report this to the Minister, as we have arranged in the HBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u76	They must also report this, because this has to be reported to DUO, so that other institutions are aware of it. We don't know exactly how much and where, but we also have a lot of MBO training. It won't be long until you get that monitor. The Chamber was right to ask to monitor that. Based on that monitor, you're going to get those numbers regularly, so we can adjust if we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u77	Clear. Thanks for the answer. For the sake of clarity, the institutions must already report it, but we do not yet have very clear reasons for setting up this numerus fixus, and we can then act on it as a result of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u78	Sure. There are only two reasons why MBO training is allowed to introduce a fixus: the labour market and capacity. We can all imagine something in that labour market. We have had a whole debate on this recently. In this capacity we can also imagine something. You need teachers and space. Especially when it comes to deficit areas, you will have to pull everything out of the closet to ensure that there is no shortage of capacity so that we can best avoid it. On the basis of that monitor, I would like to have the debate with you, but let us first see if we have a problem and how big that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u79	If the data is available at DUO I don't really understand why we don't have them, but that might be a practical objection. I think that the Minister is moving a little too quickly, which I do not think is an unwillingness to move forward to that monitor. In any case, in the sectors I mentioned, the problem is not the labour market perspective: childcare, care and education. Those are sectors with a screaming shortage of people. Then what can we and the Minister do to help training to increase their capacity should not depend on whether the number of places with a numerus fixus is increasing or decreasing? I've just Googled these examples together. That wasn't exactly complicated. Then it is not necessary to have a precise picture of the total volume of training with a numerus fixus in order to see which training courses we can talk to, which would simply have to train people for those large socially relevant deficit sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u80	Everyone knows somewhere an education with a numerus fixus that you can have questions about. Let's do this carefully now, because you shouldn't take this short. Let's first look at the overall picture and the motives that exist for the fixus and see if there's a problem there. Then we can see what we can do to tackle that problem. That seems to me to be a very logical order of things. I do not want to take action too quickly here, which may not be necessary at all or which may go in the wrong direction. So this is the line I'd like to follow. Then you can say you want it faster anyway, but better than this, you're not gonna get it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u81	These motives were clearly outlined by the Minister himself; it is capacity or labour market. So we've already answered that part. We know from some sectors that it is not the labour market. Well, then it's capacity. Then I do not understand very well what the Minister's actions would be if 5, 20 or 50 training assistants had a numerus fixus. That shouldn't matter, should it? Then it's just a matter of looking for where we know where it is right now, and then talking to that institution right away to make sure that next year the sooner the better more students can start this training, if they want to, of course?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u82	I can repeat it one more time, but I think it would be wise to map out the whole problem. You're short of capacity and you're short of capacity. It could be in space or in teachers. Even when it comes to labour market demand, we sometimes have large regional differences in the MBO. So where you say this is a sector where we have a deficit across the country, it is not always so. We also know that MBO graduates are not looking for jobs from one side of the country to the other. So let's be careful. You'll get it very soon. That monitor's gonna be here before the summer. So you'll have to wait up to two months. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a fair question about the right of admission by Mr Özdil and Mrs Kuik. Because when it comes to a numerus fixus, one can actually apply the fixus in two ways: either by drawing lots or by the arrangement "first come, first served." Then it is important to know when you can come for the first time. You both had questions about that. You'll have to be so handy to know when the registration will open. That is not the same everywhere. You have a point to make. I promise you that I will talk to the MBO Council to see if we can ensure that all the institutions open up registration at the same time, so that we can communicate it easily to all young people, future students. I think you can take a lot of stress out of that. This also allows you to prevent the person who is just a little more convenient in finding out, ahead of the one who has a little more trouble finding it. So I'd be happy to tell you. As soon as that conversation's over, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u83	One short question about that numerus fixus. There are two reasons for that. But can the Minister also actively block a numerus fixus? Is that true right now? In higher education, we're working on that. Is that going to apply to the MBO too or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u84	I can't do that right now. If I wanted to do that, then, as in higher education, the law should be amended. I would also like to say: let us first see if we have a problem before we say that we need a new legal instrument for the Minister. Because I'm happy to help you solve problems, but I'd like to know if there's a problem first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u85	Yes, I understand that in itself, but you could say that it is a problem in itself that there are no instruments. So it's a free field: the institutions can do whatever they want. Soon we'll look at the monitor and then we'll see if there's more or less of them, we'll see if we've chosen to set up a numerus fixus. That's for sure. And then we actually have no idea, and no means to find any of that. We do have eyes on it: it's just the way it is. But we can't do anything with it, at least the Minister can't do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u86	We had a different debate here a few weeks ago about the desire for a numerus fixus. That was more about whether it is desirable to have a fixus on a number of institutions. At that time, I also explained to you that we, together as legislators, deliberately chose to make self-regulation for the sector in this area. I think I have that here at least in my attempt to be passionate about defending it passionately. I think you agreed with me at the time. So I'm willing to say the following. If we really have a huge problem here for the deficit areas, I would like to take part in your argument that it might be a good idea for the Minister to have a steering wheel for that. But will we first have some confidence that what we have chosen together, namely self-regulation in the sector, is being done well? Why don't we see if we have a problem before we turn that thing upside down? Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen had also asked, and he made this point in another debate, about monitoring accessibility. Look, the beauty of this law on the right of admission is that it allows the inspection to monitor it very well: is that legal law also being observed? So as far as your question about a committee is concerned, I would say: yes, we already have it, because because this is a legal right, that is the inspection. Then we might ask ourselves whether the inspection might need additional instruments to guide it. Mr Slob and I are moving in your direction before the summer, considering whether we should tighten up the scope for inspection in a number of areas. In the debates that have taken place on this subject over the past year, there has been enough reason to do so. Maybe you can wait until then. Maybe the inspection has enough tools in its hands for this. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned the monitoring of the law on admissions. We will, of course, also have an evaluation of this. It's due in 2020. Then I think that Mr Van Meenen had a comment there on Mr Van Meenen also an evaluation of the functioning of the BSA in the MBO. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another subject that is close to many of you and myself: the cost of school. I think we all agree that the wallet of yourself or your parents should not determine whether you have access to the education of your choice. That's what the law says, by the way. Specifically to Mr Özdil, who has asked whether anything should be regulated by law, I say that Article 8.1.4 of the WEB states that participation of MBO students in education and exams should not be dependent on financial amounts other than legal tuition or tuition fees. So we've enshrined this in the law. We've had a service document for school since last summer. I have to tell you that it has cost me quite a bit to get that service document done, but it is there. I am proud that we have been able to reach such an agreement together with the MBO and the students. The students were also involved. Because that service document is coming into being just before the summer, we agreed with the MBO Council that it will go in, of course, but we will give you a year before we strictly maintain it. I thought that was fair, if you let something happen just before the summer, because most of the arrangements had already been made. So we give them a year to adapt to that. The service document will also be reviewed by mid-2020. Then we will also see if a further tightening is possible or if it is sufficient. A further anchoring of the law therefore does not seem to me to be the issue at the moment. Some of you asked: what about the textbooks or materials to be purchased but not from the plastic? This is also included in the service document. If school costs are to be prescribed, these resources must be used. We can already see that I find very nice examples of institutions that have jointly arranged for materials that are not used to be taken back. Furthermore, honesty also commands that some textbooks do not come out of plastic when that was the intention. That is what is happening, but I take it you did not mean that when you were talking about unjustly purchased funds. The service document also leads to a lot of internal discussion in institutions: are we keen enough on what we prescribe? We can see that, and I'm okay with that. That discussion is also with the student councils. The document also provides inspection tools to monitor school costs, because with the hook in the law and the service document, the inspection simply has the tools to maintain. If you're a student and feel like you're being prescribed a book when you don't need it, what do you do? Then you first speak to the teacher, the career counselor or the tutor at school and see if it can be arranged. The student council and the complaints office are also passable paths, but if you don't get out together, you can also just send out a signal at the inspection, which can then supervise and see if the service document is properly respected. We've established it for the last summer. You all know that was quite a step, because the discussion has been going on for years. A few of you have also mentioned that. Let us not start to draw new conclusions before it has worked for a year and say that it needs to be dealt with differently. Here too I would say: let's see if that works first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u87	The minister just talked about the service document. Indeed, I am always in favour of not changing things immediately before the ink has dried up. But I have here a part of that service document that specifically deals with the school fees. This is the funny thing about that. It says here: since educational supplies may vary per training, it is important that the student is aware of the essentials, et cetera, et cetera, etc. for the registration. A regular evaluation of whether the supplies are actually still needed is wise. Schools are expected to make clear appointments with the student council. If it had been in the service document that it was the responsibility of the school to buy back unused books, teaching materials, readers or licenses, or to reimburse them, I would have said: it is part of the service document. On this basis, however, the inspection cannot actually maintain properly. If the school says "we think that's wise too, we just haven't done that yet" and "the appointments we made with the student council; mwah they're on paper but nothing is said about buying back or about unnecessary books," then the inspection can't do anything. Is the Minister not of the opinion that we should, if necessary, legally anchor these specific matters, so that if a school is too lazy to comply with the obligation to update the mandatory books list, which school is responsible and simply has to buy back the books?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u88	I would like to say two things. There has been a long and intrusive discussion between the MBO institutions, the students and my department about the service document. I think it is very nice that such an arrangement is also being considered with the students. We can now do a lot of text exegesis, but the scheme is understood in both the MBO and the students in such a way that if there are book lists where there are obvious things that are not used, the service document is not respected. If it turns out that the inspection on the basis of that document and the law does not have enough tools, then I am prepared to say with you: let me sit down again with those parties to see if it needs to be tightened up. We have been working on it for less than a year and at this time I have not received a signal from any of the parties concerned, either from the students or from the MBO Council, that the document should be different. I also think you should see if it works. Should we say from this Chamber to the students: you should not agree to this arrangement as it stands; we know better for you how to write it down? I'd find that a little presumptuous. We have that arrangement, we'll see how it works, we'll follow it carefully. If it turns out that, in the event of obvious wrong situations, this document does not allow us to maintain the scheme, then we need to adapt it. I agree. But I think it's a little early for that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u89	If the service document clearly stated that this is really about appealing to schools on their responsibilities... Again, it doesn't say that. It says it's wise to evaluate it once in a while. You could do that. Then you might find out that you don't use a part but still leave it on the bookshelf. You say that it is only text and how we interpret it. I think our field is correct text, words, and policy. Together we try to make the Netherlands more beautiful and better, and protect what we have and keep. That vase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u90	I always want to get a little ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u91	Yeah, me too. That vase that works sometimes, when you get a beautiful bunch of flowers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u92	Anyway, back to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u93	Yeah, back to the subject. Look, if the service document says, "it's smart and fun, just do it," and there's agreements, but then there are no agreements, then we'll be three years before we all find out that it didn't work anyway. Then a cohort or two cohorts are ready. They've paid unnecessary costs for books they haven't used, and they don't see that money back. I want to make sure right now that we do that for them, that we do it in a good way. It's normal and logical to say: you have to use mandatory books, and if you don't, then the school that draws up the book list should take responsibility. That seems logical to me. We really don't need a separate meeting of student councils for that. We can already arrange this for the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u94	Exactly the way Mr El Yassini wants it, it actually happens on a number of MBO settings. I also think it is very good that they share these practices. But I think it's kind of typical. You often sing the praises of the MBO student here. You think such a JOB monitor is important. Now the same students who make that monitor are sitting at my table to draw up that service document, with the MBO settings, and they have said: this is the way we want to work on this. We haven't been working on that for a year, so we haven't been able to tell whether it works or not. The inspection has not even been able to make an attempt to look at it, because it was just before the summer, as I explained to you. And then you say here: 'I like that very much, but in this case I know better myself'. That's not the way I'd like to deal with it. If it turns out that the scheme is not working, that the service document has insufficient effect, I am immediately ready to return to the table with those students to adapt it. I'll be sitting around the table with them in two weeks to see if they feel that the service document is not properly drafted. I'd like to ask them that, but to say "gosh, then we have to change the law to make things different," I'm really a little short. You agreed with me just now, when it was on another subject, that we should do things in the right order. Yeah, I want to follow that here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u95	It's getting all out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u96	Indeed, I fully agree that you are following the right order at least, and I have. Because I also made contact with the JOB. And what I hear from the JOB is completely different from what I hear from the minister here. Now that may be up to the Minister or the JOB, I'll leave that in the middle. But when I told the JOB that we are working on a motion, along with the SP, to work on the refund of the costs of books to be purchased and not used, the JOB said: "Hooray, hooray, how wonderful! We are so happy about this!" I got them on the phone this afternoon. And then tonight I'm in a debate with the Minister, and he'll tell me what the JOB would find or do. That's a contradiction I can't comprehend. I think it is true that the JOB and the young people and the students throughout the Netherlands are incredibly happy when we show our strength here in politics, in the House of Representatives, and just once say: enough is enough, if you have to buy books on the basis of a mandatory book list that don't make sense, which are not used to support the lessons, boys, what are we talking about? Just settle that and don't worry about whether or not it's agreed and how or what. And again, even the JOB is very much in favour of that. So I'd say just do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u97	I do not think I should repeat this point anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u98	It seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u99	The positions are clear. I would add that it is also an agreement between three parties. But whoever I would call and ask in the Netherlands: will I provide you with a legal guarantee that you will get your money back if you need to buy something that you do not need? Then the trumpet always goes off, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u100	The trumpet goes off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u101	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u102	Because it's such a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u104	I'm not a lander.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u105	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u106	Mr Kwint has a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u107	Then it's more of a sliding trumpet. It's definitely gonna go out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u108	It's a trombone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u109	Let's not make this a fanfare discussion, Mr. Chairman. I think I can help the Minister and Mr El Yassini. I mean, that service document is kind of burned in my memory, because I was really happy about it. There are good steps: reasonableness, fairness and a timely evaluation of what is useful. So what is the consequence if something has not proved useful? Then it goes out for another group. Three fine steps, which, however, do not solve the problem for the group of students that Mr El Yassini and I are talking about, namely the students who may then be found that it was perhaps not so reasonable and fair that they should have bought that book. It's no good to them that it's being deleted for another step. It is precisely the group of students who are going to be sitting in one pile of plastic books, not because they didn't want to, but because it didn't come back in any class, and who ultimately have nothing but something to put the houseplant on. That is what we want to do against. That is the injustice which Mr El Yassini and I, and many MBO students and teachers, say: you really should get rid of it. I do not think that this would even require an adjustment of the service document.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u110	Not from the service document. But if you want a legal right to always get money back, then we'll have to settle that in the law. I think that's gonna take a little longer than evaluating the service document. I think all the parties were happy and everyone here was happy when that service document came last year, even when it was about this arrangement. I find it a little strange that even before such a document becomes a year, we say: now we want things to be different. Much more than this can and will not be said about it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u111	Mr. Kwint, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u112	I didn't know that the final moment to talk about school costs in the next two years was when the service document was closed with the MBOs, because I think we are constantly looking for improvement. Anyway, I don't feel like I'm gonna convince the minister on this. I hope the room does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u113	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u114	Mr President, we are going to see that. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with a number of other questions. Mr Özdil asked about the title. We've talked about that before. I have said before: I think it is a nice idea, but there must be support for it. I find acceptance something other than an investigation by EenVandaag. We usually do not make laws based on surveys of EenVandaag. What also plays a role here is the question: what good is it? Yes, we all have great appreciation for the MBO student. We see the importance of this, but a titulature? It's got to be useful in practice. At least I haven't heard them say that employers say: "Oh, we appreciate that MBO student more, we hire him faster and we pay him more if he has a title for his name." That teaching assistant, that mechanic, they're just really needed. I would have gone with you if it were to help with international mobility. But it doesn't help there either, because we don't know that internationally. I also want to make a firmer international commitment to making it possible for you to use your MBO degree to work more quickly across borders, so we're getting that diploma recognition. This is more useful to students than to a title, because a title does not yet make a diploma recognized abroad. It still sounds very sympathetic, but can we also stay a bit practical and see what really helps people move forward? I think this is more symbolic than real help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u115	A slight factual correction. The minister just said it was just a one-day survey. That's not right. It was a representative, scientifically responsible survey, among other things, initiated by the JOB and by EenVandaag. So I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u116	Here's to it. Then there is Mrs van den Hul's question about finding an internship. Mrs van den Hul rightly points out that, unfortunately, there is still discrimination against internship. We shouldn't walk around that. I therefore sent you a letter earlier this year containing the agreements we made on this subject. I assume that institutions and employers will make an effort to comply with these agreements, so that we can hopefully say in a while: 'God, that's falling. For students who really have a problem finding an internship, it is regulated by law so that the competent authority of the institution must ensure that these students can take their internship. That's always the fallback position, because it can't be that as a student you can't finish your studies because you can't find an internship place because there is internship discrimination. In the end, the institution, the competent authority, always has the task of arranging that place, but it is good that you are calling for this point again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u117	Indeed, this internship guarantee has been arranged, partly thanks to the efforts of one of my illustrious predecessors, Mrs Tanja Jadnansing. But we see, as the Minister rightly pointed out, that in practice, unfortunately, it takes some students far too long before they end up in that internship. I just mentioned a very sad example of that. This sometimes has very harsh consequences, for example that they are being delayed, not to mention the injustice that is being done to them. My question to the Minister was: can we not get from that internship guarantee to a firmer obligation for these training courses to be on top of that from the very beginning, precisely because we see that this does not always happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u118	I would like to point out something else to Mrs van den Hul. For each student, whether limited or not, it is a valuable part of his training to try to find an internship on his own. That too is part of the education in the MBO. I wouldn't want to say too quickly that we need to deal with this right away for people with whom we might expect it to be quite difficult. But I agree with you that as a teacher or tutor you should pay extra attention to students who you know will be difficult. I fully agree with you, but that is precisely the tailor-made and good guidance that needs to be provided within the institution. That's not something you take care of under a rule. That is just what must be done in that institution. We have the safety net and we hope to give everyone that positive learning experience of looking for an internship, which is something like looking for a job, and succeed in doing so. And yes, there is a whole group among them who unfortunately cannot manage on their own. But it's a matter of giving good education and being a good teacher to feel: gee, for this student it might be a little more difficult. It should be on top of it and maybe ask another question: "Goh, how's that going? Do you need help? Do you have a feeling why you're being rejected?" That's just a question of good education. I have sent a letter to the Chamber very recently with all the facilities available to accompany students who need extra help, and we will also have an additional discussion on this on 24 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u119	I don't think anyone's arguing that it's a good experience to apply. I will certainly not dispute that, but we see that some students have to apply for an internship much more often and for a job later than others. That's the injustice we're talking about. This is primarily a problem for the internship providers. I just mentioned the example of Vienna that was rejected purely and simply because of its gender identity. Then there may be such a good education behind her, but then it's about tough discrimination. We must do something about this in broad terms. This minister can't do that alone. That requires a cabinet-wide commitment. I am concerned that schools are ultimately obliged by the internship guarantee to help students find an internship place. We can see there's still air in there. That there are schools that are doing very well, we also know. There are teachers who are incredibly excited about this, but we also see schools where students fall between feet and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u120	Are you heading for a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u121	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister whether she can ensure that this conversation is conducted properly in these schools too. My other question was whether she thinks that all teachers at the moment have enough time to properly fill that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u122	Let me be very clear about this: I cannot make sure that every institution has a good conversation. I can't, and you can't. We can't force that either. We just have to be very real about that. We can, as we are doing here, draw attention to the issue. It is primarily an issue which should be on the board of employers and which employers should also be able to speak to each other a little harder. It can't be that while people complain about shortages in the labour market, students still don't get an internship because they have the wrong last name, the wrong zip code or a restriction. At first we have to put the ball there. At any time when employers complain about deficits, this should also be the first answer: do you want to ensure that there is no more discrimination? This is really something I can get really mad about. It concerns students who have fought very hard once in a while to obtain that diploma or to get through that training, after which they are rejected for the wrong reason. We cannot accept that as a society. So I very much agree with you. In education, there is a need to have a good conversation alongside the fallback option. I very much agree with you. That is why I am constantly calling for this to be taken into account in the discussions we have. We have to keep doing that. Is it a matter of lack of time for teachers? I don't believe that. Yeah, there's workload everywhere. But when I talk to teachers, work pressure and "it's too much" are never in the things they're passionate about. That's often in paperwork and doing the things you didn't choose for education. But I've never heard a teacher say: I didn't help that student because I didn't have the time. I certainly see so many passionate teachers in the MBO that they always make time for that. Mr. Chairman. I come to another question from Mrs Van den Hul too. I think that someone else has asked for it about the figures from the JOB monitor when it comes to calculation. Some people said they didn't have any math lessons at all. When you read it like that, you're gonna scratch behind the ears. How can that be? Sometimes it is very common and very normal that in the MBO no separate calculation lessons are given because calculation is integrated into other parts. That is exactly what we want to go to: calculation must be more professionally oriented. If you're going to be an accountant or if you're going to be a gardener, it has to be taken into account in those boxes. Sometimes there is an agreement on previously learned skills and compulsory education is already fulfilled. Sometimes it is because in the program of the MBO student the lessons still have to be started. The reality is much more nuanced than what really scares you in the monitor: why haven't so many MBO students had calculations? It is precisely integrated into other subjects where we also want to go more and more so that one can no longer separate it. Of course, we must continue to ensure that MBO graduates keep their math skills. That's exactly what we agreed on. It's gonna stay that way. In that sense, nothing changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u123	I would gradually like to go to a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u124	I think I've had a lot of it, too, Mr President. I'm gonna go make a little bit of a pace. There were a lot of questions about the ALSO. I said: we will include them in the bill. Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Van den Hul had questions about the MBO student fund. That's what's gonna happen. The 10 million that was first separate comes into the lumpsum, but there is a separate legal arrangement. I hope to have that bill in your Chamber in the fall. Then we can have another debate on this. There was a question from Mr El Yassini about the choices. And he asked, "What about the examinability?" Both the current choices and the remaining choices are subject to the SBB's review of the feasibility of those electives. So it has to be so that at the time I have to approve those electives, because they come to me by way of examinationability has been looked at and well found. Of course, it makes little sense to enter a profession if you cannot examine it; Mr El Yassini is absolutely right. Mr El Yassini would also like us to speed up the inclusion of the electives in the success-bag scheme. That road map is heading your way for budgetary treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u125	Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u126	Let me confirm that I understand that the Minister is saying that new choices that are now being submitted, which are coming to the SBB and will eventually be on the Minister's desk, will not be approved if the examination of them is not arranged? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u127	Examinability is an integral part of the test that the SBB must perform, not only on the electives but also on all other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u128	Forgive me, Mr President, for clarifying this: the Minister is talking about examinability, but I think that is different from an exam that has already been arranged for the elective part. Does that make a difference or is that the same thing? Can the Minister clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u129	No, by "examinable," I mean, if you can't examine, so if there's no exam available, it doesn't make much sense to enter it. I think we're talking about the same thing. I think Mr Beertema also asked about the choices. There's some dissatisfaction about that. We must take that step in the further regionalisation of it. Maybe it was Mrs. Kuik who asked for it. Sorry, it was Mrs. Kuik who asked for that. As a result of the administrative agreement with the MBO and the quality agreements, we also see an increasing emphasis on these regional agreements. That is why it is good that these choices are becoming more and more appropriate to the profile of the region. Mr El Yassini had a few more questions about the JOB monitor. All settings except for one are included. In that one institution, moreover, the students agreed that they would not participate. The JOB monitor is performed once every two years. At the moment it is also being considered whether the questionnaire could be shorter, or the way of asking out could be different, for example via an app, or that a different frequency might be at issue. I support those questions. It is primarily a responsibility of JOB itself to shape the monitor. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost there. There were questions about the math test. What does that mean? You had a letter about that. Actually, not that much changes for the MBO settings. They must continue to test maths. They may, however, enter diagnostic tests. I would like to stress once again that they are not intended to be selective. They shouldn't be either. They are merely intended to help the student, for example to find out if a student needs extra help with a number of skills to ensure that he can also be successful in his studies. It is intended in particular to support the student. Mr. Chairman. We talked about the school fees. I'm just going to browse to see if there are any questions. Yes, Mrs Kuik had another question about the right of admission until 1 April. There's one national login date, April 1st. If you sign up after that, you basically have the right to be admitted. The training of your choice is not guaranteed, because there may be reasons not to. Also through campaigns like Study with a plan we point students on that date. The first tour of the inspection shows that this date is now well known to most students. Mrs Kuik also had a question about the increase in the number of vs'ers: does it have to do with the law on the right of admission? I can't tell you that right now. That's exactly what we're analysing right now. I think there will be a debate on vsv after the summer. I'll come back to you before then. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through and you can move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u130	Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u131	I had also asked the Minister about her view of the technical shortages. I had asked a number of questions about that. They were, among other things, about what I called "inverse macro-efficiency": what if an education ceases to exist? Is that what we're gonna do? And if not, would it not be desirable to do so? I also asked her about the role she sees in this respect for the Technics Pact, whether a successor has already been appointed there and how she assesses the situation with regard to student stops at technical training in the MBO, precisely a sector where these shortages are so enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u132	In my view, I have just said in detail that a stop in a business where there is a shortage is not desirable. We will come back to that in the monitor: if there is a problem, we must do something about it. I am afraid to say if the new driver of the Technics Pact has already been appointed, because I do not know if what is in my head is now known to the public. But at least we're working hard on it. The model we have chosen and that also fits in with how we are increasingly looking at vocational education is to have it done much more in the region. The regions have indicated that they still want a rural driver, but the real work must be done in the regions. We also see just an increase in technique. The big issue is, of course, also in the VMBO, in which we, as a cabinet, fortunately also invest 100 million to make VMBO technology attractive again. That's not a small amount of money. In another context, we have also talked about the fact that we are really trying to create the continuous learning lines to the MBO. But with you, I do have concerns about that: should you come to a reverse test? Now it is already the case that institutions have to report it if they are going to close a training course. There are also large regional differences in deficit areas. Sometimes, from the point of view of efficiency, it is also good that it should, for example, move to another institution, because we certainly see in shrinking regions that you sometimes have to rearrange. But with you, I believe that we should do everything we can to ensure that there is indeed more than enough training for the students who opt for technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u133	I'm glad to hear that. I also hope that the Minister agrees with us that it is also the responsibility of the government to provide some sort of basic infrastructure, so that, precisely in view of this huge increase in demand in the future, sufficient people will be available for those deficit areas in the future. I therefore hope that the Minister will continue to take that proactive role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u134	Certainly, and you also know that we always send out the signal to MBO institutions, especially in shrinking regions, that they should also see how they can work well together to maintain that offer. Because you know as well as I do that if every institution in a shrinking region tries to keep all the training on the table alone, it will not succeed. So we simply need to work together on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u135	Very good. So much for the first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. The first speaker is already leaving the Chamber. He'll be back anyway. I'll suspend for three minutes. Then we can stretch our legs or wash our hands. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u136	Let's move on. I call Mr Özdil. All participants have a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all my fellow Members and especially the Minister for this constructive debate. We are very pleased with the efforts made by the Minister on a complaints desk for MBO students and on the need to arrange a single entry for MBO students. We await the results with interest. Mr. Chairman. As I said in the debate, a year ago Mr Kuik from the CDA and I made a point about the unnecessary study costs in the MBO. We are very pleased with the efforts made by the Minister on this point. In order to give these efforts a little more direction, Mr Kuik and I have the next... framework. The word "motion" may be too heavy, but it is a motion. I'm gonna go read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for students to purchase unnecessary educational supplies such as books and software licences;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, ROC Friese Poort has made arrangements with a publisher to take back unused educational supplies and compensate students;]] [[calls on the Minister to encourage institutions to take back unused educational supplies from students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-409]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u138	Then I would like to thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u139	Thank you for coming. Mrs Van den Hul of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u140	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions tonight. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the near future there is an increasing need for technically skilled professionals, while technical training is increasingly under pressure and sometimes even going to student stops;]] [[noting that a mandatory macro-efficiency test is used to assess the contribution of this training to social and economic demand for the start-up of new training;]] [[noting that the elimination of training does not assess the impact on social and economic demand;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities for assessing such an impact also in the event of the removal of training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-410]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u141	I have a question for Mrs Van den Hul. This proposal has already been made by the CDA. It has been a while since we turned this, precisely the reverse macro-efficiency test, off to the Minister. It is intended to prevent the elimination of training, especially in the field of technology. There are so many motions that I can imagine this was no longer in your mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u142	"That it wasn't in Mrs. Van den Hul's mind anymore."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u143	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Good thing you're keeping me sharp. Well, can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u144	"Can Mrs Van den Hul respond to that?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u145	I can certainly respond to that, Mr President. That's right, Mrs. Chicken is right. That was completely absent from me in the multitude of motions and proposals. So I'm gonna be recommended. Perhaps, in the future, we will be able to work together on this point, even if I may see an outstretched hand in her remark. Mr. Chairman. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still students in vocational education who are difficult or unable to find an internship, while an internship is a mandatory part of their training;]] [[noting that the current guarantee obligation of educational institutions with regard to traineeships does not prevent students from continuing to be in vocational education who, due to discrimination or poor supply, are not placed in an internship;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what is necessary to convert this guarantee obligation for educational institutions into a delivery obligation, on the basis that students in vocational education are not only offered an internship placement but also actively supervised in the final placement when necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u146	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank everyone who has contributed to this wonderful debate. But I would particularly like to thank the Minister. It's nice to see her involvement in the MBO. Nor will it surprise you that she and D66 are very much in agreement on this wonderful subject. But at one point that is not entirely the case. I actually want to give the Minister something she doesn't want: the power to stop a numerus fixus. So I'm going to table a motion on that after all. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is essential that the MBO remains publicly accessible;]] [[Whereas MBO training should limit the number of training places only from the point of view of the labour market or capacity;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Higher Education has the option of blocking the establishment of a numerus fixus if it is not properly substantiated;]] [[calls on the Government also to require adequate support for the establishment of a numerus fixus in MBO training and to allow the Minister to block a numerus fixus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u147	I have heard very well what the Minister has said: there will be a clear monitor on the number of training courses with a numerus fixus and their nature. But independently of that, I want that authority. I believe that, as a society, we should stand for universally accessible education and a generally accessible MBO. It cannot be the case that the future of young people is being blocked for improper reasons. The Minister should be able to prevent this if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u148	One more question from Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u149	Is it true that the monitor is just being done at the request of Mr Van Meenen? Is Mr Van Meenen not prepared to wait for the monitor that is being made at his request? He has already tabled a motion, but perhaps it would be wiser to wait for the monitor, requested by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u150	That's right. But requested... I have been very concerned about whether the law guaranteeing access to the MBO would become a reality, because there was great resistance from the administrations. Under this pressure, the binding study opinion has yet to be incorporated into the law. That's why I asked for a monitor to see what's really happening. As I said in my introduction, this is separate from the motion I am now tabling. I believe that this power should be given at least, whether there is an increase or whatever. But first, I await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u151	Thank you. Then Mr El Yassini of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions, for responding to our comments and, of course, for the good debate; that is, of course, part of the debate. Let me begin with my first motion. We have had a discussion about this with the Minister and we do not agree with each other. I really want us to get started right now for the students who need to buy unnecessarily books that aren't used in the classes. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 43% of MBO students indicated that they had to purchase books that they didn't have to use throughout the school year;]] [[considers that this entails unnecessary costs for students and their parents;]] [[Considers that MBO schools should be more careful in selecting books for the book list;]] [[calls on the Government to require schools to buy back teaching materials or books that have not been used to support the lesson from students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr El Yassini and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u153	The thrust of the motion is sympathetic. As I mentioned, CDA and GroenLinks made a point about the school costs a year ago. The motion I tabled with Mr Kuik actually says the same thing. My question to Mr El Yassini, and indirectly to Mr Kwint, is whether he is prepared to sign with us if necessary. I don't think filing a double motion is very classy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u154	I think this is kind of funny. I wonder when it is Mr Özdil's birthday, because then I can buy him a dictionary, because there is, of course, a big difference between'stimulating' and 'compulsory'. We are in favour of mandatory; we are in favour. Stimulation with cups of coffee, or cups of tea in the case of GroenLinks, is in itself cozy, but we say: now let's get to work. Mandatory schools to buy back books that were on the books list and then were not used. I don't think we can be clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u155	I have nothing to add, Mr. Chairman. These words from the VVD are very unfortunate, but we're going to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u156	Very stimulating. Thank you, Mr. Özdil. The second point concerns the choices. That has come to my side a little bit unclear. We would like the exam to be arranged when assigning new choices. Now I hear the Minister say that there's a test for examinability. I still do not think it is clear whether that is exactly the same, so I would like to table the next motion. We can still keep it. And we would like to ask the Minister anyway to come up with a letter this week, before the votes, explaining exactly what is going on with the testability for examinability. So I will read the motion quickly, because I have a few seconds left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Minister of Education, Culture and Science indicated that he needed until 2020 to include the choices for the success/pocket scheme, because the examination was not yet in order;]] [[noting that the number of electives without examination continues to increase significantly;]] [[Considers that the alignment of new choices without proper examination delays the goal of including the options for the beating/pocket control;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, from now on, only elements of choice whose examination is in order are accepted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr El Yassini and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just had to get my paperwork in order. After the debate, there are two points on which we have not yet agreed. The first is, of course, the point of the unused books. I really think there is an important task there. That's not because I don't like the service document, because it's quite a good service document, but because I think it's a valuable addition. I would have asked another question about the tying of licences and books and the role of educational publishers in them. Because that can unnecessarily lead to high costs for students and students. And finally, the numerus fixus, precisely in the deficit sectors. The Minister and I don't agree on whether or not you should start now. That's okay. That is what we have the debates and the Chamber for, and then we will find out who the majority agrees with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant deficits in the education, care and childcare sectors;]] [[Whereas a numerus fixus does not contribute to the solution, but should increase the capacity of the training;]] [[calls on the government, together with MBO training, to ensure that the numerus fixus is removed as soon as possible and the capacity of these training courses is increased in sectors with both a high staff shortage and a high social interest, such as education, care and childcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u158	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the clear answer. We'd like to wait for the evaluation. It is nice that the Minister has promised to look at the real situation with regard to the training courses that are very much in demand in the field. If they have set a numerus fixus, what are the bottlenecks there and how can we remove them? I would also like to thank the Minister for the clear commitment to speak to the MBO Council on a single national date to register. The question is whether, if that is known, we can give publicity that that is completely clear. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u159	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. The Minister can answer immediately and I am happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u160	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. If you'll allow me, I'd like to correct a few things from my first term. I made a small mistake in my response. Settings in the MBO have no obligation to report to DUO that they set a numerus fixus. Mrs Kuik also looked at me strangely, like: yes, why do you not know? Then I thought: I understand that asking face, but it is in higher education and not in MBO. They are obliged to publish that numerus fixus on the website. I'm sorry about that. I'm gonna have an administrative meeting with the JOB soon, like I said. For how you weigh things from the JOB monitor it might also be good to know that the service document is school costs after the JOB monitor. We are talking very late about this JOB monitor, but when weighing things up in that survey it is good to know that the service document is after that time. Perhaps that will help you weigh a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u161	It's recorded. Mrs. Kuik, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u162	Would it not be desirable to actually set up this reporting obligation, now that it is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u163	I would like to make one thing clear with the Chamber, and I will have it come back to the assessment of the motions: let us first have that monitor of the situation with the numerus fixus and then look at what we want to do about this numerus fixus. But I will take Mrs Kuik's question directly into my weighting of the monitor. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. In the motion tabled by Mr Özdil and Mrs Kuik to item No. 409 on study costs, they ask me to encourage institutions to take back those unused educational supplies. This is already happening in a number of institutions. I would like to carry out the motion in such a way that I would also like to encourage other MBO institutions to do so, so I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber, so that those institutions may see the motion as an incentive. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 410 on the mapping of the impact of the elimination of training. I would advise against this motion, because there is already a duty to report the cessation and start of training. In the case of small and unique training, the CMMBO also plays a role in the test of whether they should continue to exist, including what this means for the funding factor. So we're talking about those things that are needed. There is already a duty to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u164	And so it becomes judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u165	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u166	Mrs Kuik rightly pointed out to me the existence of a motion which had escaped my attention. It was adopted unanimously, so fortunately my group voted in favour, because that would have been something. I would therefore like to withdraw this motion, but I would like to add the question to the Minister as to what progress has been made in implementing it. It also asked for a reverse efficiency test to be carried out, as I mentioned it. I'd like to ask the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u167	The answer to the question as to what is going on with that, I must remain guilty at the moment, but as soon as positive news is available, I will let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u168	Since the Van den Hul motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u169	The Minister just said that she would inform us of positive news, but we would also prefer to hear it when she has negative news to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u170	Yeah, but I'm always very hopeful, so I always think I'm gonna bring you some positive news. But in both cases, I'll report it if there's any progress. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Hul on part No. 411, about internships. I'm going to dissuade that motion because it's unnecessary. If a student fails to find an internship for himself, the WEB provides for the MBO school to ensure availability of the student's internship and placement, by ensuring that the practical agreement is reached, so the delivery obligation you are talking about in the motion is already there. The motion is unnecessary, so advise against it. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 412 over the numerus fixus. You won't be surprised that I'm going to ask you to hold this motion until the Van Meenen monitor, as I call it, has landed in this Chamber. I hope you'll be wise enough to do that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u171	Mr Van Meenen has now become a concept. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u173	Well, that's what we do for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u174	At my request, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u175	At the request of Mr Van Meenen, I propose his motion (31524, No. 412). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u176	Then there is Mr El Yassini's motion on item No. 413, on the obligation on teaching materials. Then I think Mr Özdil's motion is more appropriate to where we are now in the service document. It will not surprise Mr El Yassini that I find his motion a little too early. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u177	The minister says she thinks the other motion is more in line with the service document. Can it then indicate what it considers to be adding that motion to the service document compared to the obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u178	We see that on the basis of the service document, it is already used at a number of MBO schools that this return takes place and that you do not need any legal obligation at all. The service document assumes that institutions and students come to good agreements with the minister so that we do not have to settle everything. By the way, making good agreements with each other can be achieved faster than a change in the law. So I'd like to talk to the settings about those good examples that are already there on some MBO settings, to make sure that they are followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u179	Mr Kwint has just made a brief point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u180	But the Minister told us in the first term that a lot is already happening with that service document, that it is not really necessary to do so and that it is better to give it some time, and then to say in a motion that does not call for something to be changed: it is good to include that in discussions. It can't be both true, can it? There's some kind of inconsistency in it, isn't there? That may and I think it is a sympathetic motion by Mr Özdil, but if the Minister says he doesn't really need it in the first term, then I say: that is exactly why we wanted a legal obligation because we thought that the conversation would not take us far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u181	I did not think I should have to explain again in the Chamber that there is a difference between legislation on the one hand and administrative agreements with administrative parties on the other and encouraging good examples to follow. There's a world of difference. Those agreements are also often manoeuvrable. Now that we have chosen in that service document the way of the good agreements, and you can also see that institutions are implementing them in a good way, I would particularly like those very enthusiastic examples to be followed in this context, but that is really something other than legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u182	Mr El Yassini, also on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u183	I still want to try to get out with the minister. It indicates that there are very good and enthusiastic examples. It indicates that there are 5 institutions doing the 63...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u184	66, out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u185	66. So it's 5 settings that do the 66 in total. The document is already a year old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u186	It's not even a year old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u187	Well, eleven months. In those 11 months there are 5 institutions of the 66 who have said: we are going to do this. Probably these settings that had already taken care of it I know from a few that they have already done so before the service document was a thing. It is good that there are a number of schools that serve as an example. Doesn't the Minister think that if we want all 66 to do the best for the students as soon as possible, we should at least force them to do so if they are really not doing well on that mandatory book list, and that we should all really stand up for those students?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u188	For a liberal, Mr El Yassini has a surprising preference for a central arrangement. I'm only gonna explain it one more time. Last year we adopted the service document shortly before the summer. That came into force at the time, but I also agreed with the MBO institutions that, because, for example, there were many areas where the regulations and the book lists had already been established, we would be reluctant to maintain them promptly in the first year. Before that first year is over, you are actually saying that you have been able to acquire that service document and have been able to comply fully with it, but we do not trust it and we are going to regulate it legally. I don't want to work like that. So I'm really not in favour of a legal arrangement right now. I believe that we continue to disagree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u189	Very good. Then the motion to part No. 414.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u190	The motion in part No. 414 on the electives. The SBB is already looking at the examinability. I promised you I'd come up with a letter on the road map for the beating-bag scheme. I would also like to look very carefully at whether these exams are really there for all these subjects. I think they're here, but I'd like to check that again. If it's all right with you, I'd be happy to take it with me in that letter. Perhaps you'd like to hold your motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u191	That's a question, but there's no response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u192	Finally, the motion in part No. 415 by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u193	Oh, Mr. El Yassini. Perhaps about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u194	Yes, you asked for a comment from me. I will consider it for a moment and, if necessary, I will continue the motion later if necessary. But I'll take a look at the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u195	Fine. We'll vote on it on Tuesday, so before then, please make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u196	It will not surprise Mr Kwint that I would also like to ask him to hold his motion until we have the monitor here, so that we can first see what is going on with the numerus fixus in the MBO, and whether these kinds of measures are at issue. Finally, a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u197	Can I ask you a question about a motion? From the motion in part No. 414, those of Mr El Yassini and Mr Beertema, you say: please hold on if you can. But if that doesn't happen, then what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u198	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u199	Dissuade. Very well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u200	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Kwint's question about the tying of licences from educational publishers. Schools may prescribe which books and licenses students should purchase. Schools should not require only one party to do so. Schools may prescribe what you should have, but may not say when you need to buy it. And of course: if it is only for sale at one publishing house, there is no choice and there is tying, then I agree with you that this is very undesirable. I would like to say to you that I am going to ask again whether this is true: is there either a tying or no choice? Because then I believe that this would be undesirable and we should look at what we are going to do about it. Mr President, then I am done answering my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u201	Have we received a clear assessment of the motion on item No. 415 by Mr Kwint and Mrs Van den Hul?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u202	Yeah, it's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u203	It's been dissuaded. Very good. Thank you. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-32.u204	Thank you to the Minister for her presence. We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday.
