ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the debate on the future of defence. A warm word of welcome to the Minister; thank you for joining us. We have ten speakers from the Chamber. Mr Beertema is the last speaker and we shall begin with Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party. Like everyone else, he has four minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's price shooting. Almost every week a new incident, a new blunder or a new scandal in the Defense Department and the rulers still fail to keep it in the claw. Mullen for an opposition party. But, believe me, I'd rather see it differently. A robust, agile, well-prepared military force that puts its people on one, and a debate on how to achieve that rather than just another thing. Today we can start with that and that's good. Too bad it took a lot of fuss. Not in the DOD this time, but in the cabinet. Single-minded when it came to abolishing the dividend tax for multinationals, but above all a bickering coalition with the fighting four on the street about the climate agreement, the calculation test and the children's pardon. And that's just this week. And about the DOD. The Minister of Defence is right to point out to the Minister of the Interior that we do want a European army, and the Minister of the Interior, in turn, points to the Minister of Defence when he says that extra money goes to Defence. The fact that we also had to read in the newspaper that the army had a new vision and that the Minister did not yet intend to agree with the Chamber on a clear procedure to come up with a new vision is sufficient reason to discuss it today. What is the progress of the process towards this new vision, I ask the Minister. How far along are you? How and when are you going to involve the Chamber? After the army, are there any new visions of the Air Force, the Marine Force and the Marechaussee? Do we get it as a Chamber or do we do better to subscribe to the newspaper and foam Internet sites? What shared principles have the various military components been given in designing their vision? Is a new overall vision going to be a matter of cutting and sticking into those partial visions, or does it just need a staple? Then there is the key question: how should Defence respond to the rapidly changing world and the attitude of key players or, rather, act? How do we combine behind-the-clock maintenance, which now involves a lot of work and money, with the new demands that the changing world places on our armed forces, with new priorities? How do we prevent us from having brand new and expensive items but the wrong ones? The world is changing, and that means something to the Defense Department. That's clear. Yet the cabinet is not on the same page. Whether or not a European army, whether or not extra money to our armed forces, whether or not and at what rate NATO agreements. Those aren't the least of the subjects. What does it mean for the Netherlands as the Minister of Defence of our main partner, Germany, seems to say that a European army is inevitable in the long term? How does the Minister look at the signals that the President of the United States seems to regularly refer to leaving NATO? How does it view its action in NATO? Is that the same in the cabinet and coalition? The minister said proudly a few weeks ago that extra money would go to the Defense Department for NATO. She would have submitted a national plan for that. But less than an hour later it became clear that there might have been a plan or a beginning of it, but no extra money. And if that's going to happen, it's just the question. None of that's pretty. What is the situation with this plan and how does it fit in with this new vision, I ask the Minister. Is it perhaps a new vision? Does it consist of no more and no less than meeting the NATO agreements? Is there gonna be extra money? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The Labour Party stands for a robust and agile military force that, internationally, does what it has to do to keep the Netherlands, our environment and the world safe and thus protect our country and its inhabitants. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this includes a strong commitment to cyber. A military force that creates added value for the coalitions of which we are part, through the commitment of our expertise and our professionals, the men and women of our armed forces who are willing to offer our freedom and those of our children the ultimate sacrifice, their lives, and deserve all the respect and appreciation of us and of their own organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u3	Those are a lot of questions from Mr Kerstens to the Minister, but I am very curious what the Labour Party wants. I believe that in their election programme it says that 0.4 billion should be added. What about the Labour Party in relation to a European army? What does the Labour Party think now? Should the Netherlands participate in a European army?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u4	That's a clear question. In the previous cabinet period, in which the PvdA, together with the VVD, Mr Bosman's party, formed the government, money was raised for Defence despite the severe crisis we were in then. That's the line the Labour Party wants to go through. Mr Bosman has read this well in the election programme. Specifically, when it comes to a European army or not, the Labour Party is in favour of intensive international cooperation with our allies, within the EU, within NATO, within the United Nations. But that is something other than a single European army in which, so to speak, we would abandon our own decision-making power to use our people in dangerous situations. So that's not what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u5	It is remarkable that Mr Kerstens says that in the previous cabinet period money was added with a VVD/PvdA government. That was thanks to the VVD, and not thanks to the PvdA. Let's get that straight. I welcome the answer that the Labour Party is not in favour of a European army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u6	I would like to say a few words. I forgot to mention that in the cabinet before that, where the VVD was also part of, a billion went from Defence. And as it always happens in coalitions, it's about joint decisions. So we decided together to make extra money for the Defense Department. I think we have done wisely, because that is urgently needed in this rapidly changing world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u7	I call Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u8	Mr. Chairman. NATO and the United States are escalating, the Russians are coming, the Cold War is being haunted, new weapons systems need to be bought that must be deployable anywhere in the world, the nuclear arms treaty can come out, the permanent war will not end. Although, those signals are not always very clear. This government often follows that tone. My question to the Minister would be: are militarisation, increasing tensions, a new Cold War and continuing the permanent wars in distant countries that have not brought us security, really the solution of this cabinet? In the meantime, we know that President Trump proposed to join NATO four times in 2018. So the question to the Minister is: how does she appreciate these statements made by Trump, as does the intention to withdraw from Syria and Afghanistan, where the Minister has made a fervent plea to continue these missions? We would also like to hear a response from the Minister to the next contradictory sentence in her own letter. "We protect our way of life thanks to the embedding of the Netherlands in the European Union, NATO, the OSCE and the United Nations." Mr. Chairman. The Russians are also members of the OSCE and the UN. We would like to propose that cooperation be sought there too, cooperation to promote security. A direct and great confrontation with the Russians can never bring us security. Does the Minister agree with us? We also propose not to participate in the arms race that has been waged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u9	Mrs Karabulut raises a fair question about the position of the United States, especially President Trump and NATO, and the fact that there have been newspaper reports that he has threatened to withdraw from NATO. It is a question which Mrs Karabulut will hear in my speech. The question to Mrs Karabulut is: what are the consequences if the United States actually withdraws from NATO? What is Mrs Karabulut's assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u10	I can't see the consequences, just like I can't see what Mr. Trump means or doesn't mean, what steps he'll take or won't take. What I can see, though, is the last pack of 17, 18 years of foreign policy led by the US, followed by NATO, and all kinds of interventions, often illegal, that would make the world safer, that would drive out terrorists, that would bring us a new world, but they didn't bring us all that. They bring us insecurity. I also see that the way in which this political practice is conducted is bankrupt, so we will have to look for an alternative. As far as I am concerned, that alternative is not to continue with this failing foreign strategy. In my view, this alternative can never be to work on the one hand through this system towards growing inequality and, on the other hand, to say: the answer to increasing tension is even more militarisation. We will have to look together for alternatives, which, as far as I am concerned, focus on de-escalation and relaxation. In any case, my party is not in favour of spending billions on expensive weapons systems, such as the JSF, such as submarines, in order to be able to wage wars far away, while our own soldiers do not even have a decent collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u11	When I asked this question, of course, I should have prepared myself for Mrs Karabulut's speech, which would be a little longer than the short question I asked. I had a very practical question. The way the SP looks at the world is a different way from the CDA. Mrs Karabulut says 'we must have fewer soldiers', while the CDA sees that Russia has an ever stronger and larger army, an ever greater army as well. And I see that China is currently very much building an army that is going to be stronger than the United States and Russia together, with which we are getting a threat that is really very real. Fortunately, we still live together in a country where there is 75 years of freedom, but that is not a quiet property.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u12	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u13	But I'll come back to the question. Mrs Karabulut said: I cannot see the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u14	Not entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u15	Not entirely overlooking it. Then my question to Mrs Karabulut is: if she can't see it completely, what does she see? Because isn't it a problem for her if the United States leaves NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u16	NATO was once established from the Cold War and from that point of view. NATO would lift itself again. None of that happened. NATO has been expanded. NATO has also advanced to the Russian borders. NATO operates worldwide, including in wars and in countries where we should not be moving at all, which brings no solution. So I think if all that changed, that would offer new openings, including for us, to draw our own line. I think it is very important for Europe to work together. I think it's very important to maintain good relationships. I think it is very important to strengthen the United Nations. I do believe that if these steps were taken by the United States, we would indeed have to fill them in in a different way. But the way you propose it, the President of the United States throws some wild plans in the middle, they withdraw, so we have to fill that up and continue with that Cold War rhetoric, nor does that peace and security bring us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u17	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u18	In December, the Minister wrote a letter to NATO describing NATO's national plans. The Russians are coming, and that is the main reason for these plans. But the government itself writes that the threat is not of Article 5 level. The letter mentions five policy areas, but it does not get any more concrete than that. I would like to ask the Minister: what are the concrete plans for the JSF? Are these extra JSFs going to be there as far as the minister is concerned or not? Or doesn't the government actually know that? Are there multiple plans and multiple visions in the government about this? Mr. Chairman. The government has also reported to NATO that the price tags are only posted in the Spring Note, or else in the 2020 budget, in September. Two questions. Why was the letter of 14 December drawn up if NATO cannot be given anything concrete? Secondly, what will be reported in the letter on the budget fund expected in March, which is yet to come? Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the most important sentence is in the final paragraph. The government rightly states that confidence in the Defence Organisation must be restored, not only in order to maintain sitting staff, but also in order to be able to recruit sufficient staff. This includes, for example, completing the framework conditions that are part of working at Defence, such as creating a safe and sustainable working environment. This sentence is what it really is about. Why write NATO letters with plans that wouldn't do her much good anyway? Why not just tell NATO that we have too few people and that we are not buying JSFs for the time being and that we are not going to do so until the money for those devices has provided enough people? Please note, therefore, that the collective agreement and the pension scheme are significantly improved. If that's all right, then we'll see if Trump's still in NATO and how things stand. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u19	Thank you. Mr Bosman from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u20	Mr. Chairman. When I talk about the future of defence and with it about the future of our country, I cannot ignore the rapidly changing situation in the world, a world characterized by numerous fires and conflicts, sometimes far from home, but often also very close. The time of the war of choice, in which the Netherlands could choose the conditions for the deployment of the armed forces, seems to be over. It remains special to note that at present large parts of airspace above our alliance territory are not free from threats, that radar and missile systems from other countries are the service if they so wish. So is our kingdom in the West. It is my expectation that such conflicts will become more and more numerous in the future, often with a direct impact on Dutch society. The growth of the world's population, the disappearance of natural resources, the scarcity of water, the many migratory flows and the definition of a multipolar world with increasingly assertive actors are ingredients that make the Netherlands the eighteenth economy in the world responsible for its own and allergic security. Our men and women of Defense must be able to operate in all fields and at all levels of violence in order to continue to fulfil the three main tasks of Defense. I therefore understand the plans put forward by the cabinet to invest more in Defense that certainly has the support of the VVD with a focus on the teeth of that organization, with a proper information position, excellent stuff and well-trained people, not only in the traditional domains, but also in the cyber domain, the artificial intelligence, drones and in space. Particular attention needs to be paid to this issue in order to strike a proper balance in the armed forces. It is only when this balance has been restored that Defence can grow in a broader sense into a joint, long-term joint military force, calculated on its tasks, not depending on the currently available budget of land, sea and air, space and in the cyber domain, in the interest of the Netherlands. In this sense, I support the choices made by the Minister of Defence in her national plan. It wants to restore the force of action on land, at sea and in the air. It has put information dominance at the heart of the organisation, which will enable decision-making on the battlefield not only to be improved, but also to be speeded up in the future. She rightly invests in special operations forces that can operate in the Netherlands and abroad under any circumstances. The priority given to the restoration of Defence's hunting capacity within the national plan is a necessary first step in restoring the appointed balance. I am convinced that the F-35 will not only play a dominant role in the conflicts of the future, possibly close to home under the highest threat, but will also prove to be conditional on the deployment and freedom of movement of other units of the armed forces. The current capacity is not sufficient for this. So I see the national plan as a modest first step, a first step towards a balanced, robust and rapidly deployable military force that can act under any circumstances. In order to achieve this, however, we need to invest more broadly in the defence sector. I am thinking here of the protection of our own and of the allied territory against acute threats such as aircraft, cruise missiles and hypersonic missiles. The Defence Ground-bound Air Defense Command deserves special attention in this regard. But above all, what deserves attention is the personnel of the Defense Department. This year we celebrate in many places in the Netherlands that we were liberated 75 years ago from an occupying force that we could not keep out of the door by a heavily neglected military force. You all know the terrible consequences. It is our men and women of Defense who have brought us security and freedom over the last 75 years. That's what happened to their colleagues in the alliance. They're the ones who make you and I go to sleep tonight with peace of mind. It is therefore important that a good working conditions agreement be reached quickly, an agreement that does justice to the special position and performance of our military, an agreement that can put Defence back on the market as an attractive employer, for you, for me, for us, for the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u21	There is one more question. There is some danger of anyone being allowed to go first, but let me give Mrs Karabulut the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u22	Mr President, I hear Mr Bosman enthusiastically reacting to the Minister's extremely vague plans, but I would like to make it a little more specific about the VVD. I hear you saying you want more JSFs. How many billion will the VVD reserve in the Spring Note for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u23	No. The intention is as follows. If money is available, we have a number of priorities. The cabinet has a number of priorities that we support. These priorities have a certain order and we can follow them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u24	Okay, so in other words, the VVD says: I want to do it, I want to say it, I want to be able to keep fighting everywhere and we need to keep following NATO policy, but at the moment I cannot mention any amount either. Then there's my follow-up question. How much money does the VVD have left to conclude a good collective agreement for the military?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u25	That's a choice between employer and employee. At least we know that the SP was going to cut a billion dollars on Defense. We know that anyway. With the four coalition parties, this cabinet has spent 1.5 billion on the total budget. In doing so, it is important to have balanced working conditions. That is a very broad agreement. That really is a discussion and sometimes a puzzle. The function house, but also the wage costs house and pensions all come together. You make appointments as an employer and employee. The unions and the employers are all among them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u26	In conclusion. The SP doesn't choose to buy expensive jets. Nor does the SP choose to purchase expensive weapons systems so that we can participate in permanent wars in the far Middle East. We don't choose Cold War rhetoric either. But what has to be done is that the staff comes first and I have not been able to catch the VVD on that at any time. If that had been the case, we would all have made proposals here a long time ago. Unfortunately, I do not hear the VVD saying: boy, that fighter jets never mind, let's make sure that we put the staff first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u27	Clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u28	In the overall picture of Defense, you have planes that need to be replaced and ships that need to be replaced. In the overall picture there is equipment that is needed to replace. In principle, we are here replacing the material with which we ask men and women to join the war. The F-16 is now 40 years old. We ask men and women to go to war with that equipment, even though we already know that an F-16 can no longer operate autonomously over Polish territory because the Russians have the Kaliningrad weapon system there, which the F-16 cannot handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u29	Mr President, the spokesperson for the VVD, Mr Bosman, remains a pilot. He'd rather go for the planes, the F-35s, than the soldiers. I think he has been told within his group that he must also make a plea for the small material. He is talking about the discussion on collective bargaining. If he has to make a choice today, does he choose a few more planes or does he want to make sure that the collective agreement is arranged for the military and that they get a little more salary? What does he choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u30	That's a weird choice, because it's done and done. You can see that with this cabinet now. There's gonna be 1.5 billion more. Long-term material choices are made. This is essential for the future of the armed forces. In addition, there are discussions between employer and employee to create a complete set of working conditions. I think that's en-en. I'm not gonna make a choice in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u31	Those conversations last a long time, and that's why a lot of military personnel are pulling out and leaving the Department of Defense. So we're short. You will be able to buy nice aircraft and submarines, but then there will be no military who can work with them. What do you choose? Do you opt for the short-term solution to provide our military quickly with the material they are asking for or do you intend to do what the great powers say and buy expensive war equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u32	No, the commitment of this cabinet was to restore the employability of the armed forces. Basic readiness was the core: man, the military giving it what he immediately needs. That is the commitment of this cabinet. That's what we started with; that's what the cabinet started with. The cabinet has my full support and the full support of the VVD to give the men and women the stuff they need. That is the core, the basis for which we have made the money available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u33	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u34	We've seen that. Military go to Norway without thick coats. So the government's commitment has resulted in them having to buy their own jackets on the internet. And you obviously choose the planes and not the people who risk their lives for us again in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u35	No. They're acting like I've made a choice. I think I just said three times that I don't make a choice because we do and-and. You might have a hard time listening and thinking, "Oh, man, I'm gonna make it a story." No, it's en-and. That is the essence of this cabinet. That's what we bet money for. That is what we are trying to do to improve the effectiveness of the armed forces, but also to improve the employability of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u36	What Mr Bosman just said about the fact that it is time for a good collective agreement for the employees of the Defense Department sounds like music to my ears. I could have told you that myself. In fact, I have said this very often, almost to the furthest of Mr Bosman. It is a pity that when we wanted to supply butter to the fish in the budget together with Mrs Karabulut in terms of money through a number of amendments, Mr Bosman voted against it. I'm talking about other money right now. I have indicated in my speech that the Minister has put forward a plan, a good plan, I suppose, which I hope should lead to additional money for Defence to, say, crawl towards the objectives agreed at NATO. Mrs Karabulut was just asking for this, but Mr Bosman did not want or could not give a sum to it, although he did say some fine words about it in his text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u37	Are you going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u38	Yeah, the question's coming right now. Can Mr Bosman imagine that, despite his warm words, despite the plan that the Minister has submitted to the cabinet and which he may still have to do a little bit about, there will be no extra money for the Spring paper to go to the Defense Department? Is that what Mr. Bosman is going through?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u39	You never have to answer the what-if questions. It's as simple as that. It is up to the cabinet what money is available. Then let's see what's available. For now, as a cabinet and also as a coalition, we have given 1.5 billion for the improvement of the armed forces. In addition, I think it is important that where money is available... We did the same in the previous cabinet. That was especially the choice of the VVD. Of course we said yes together, but the VVD chose defence and the Labour Party for social activities. That's fine, but those are the choices that have been made. That's what we're doing now. In my view, where money is available, this national plan, which I wholeheartedly support, offers the possibility of improving the impact of resources, but also the human component. That support has the VVD's cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u40	The fact that the PvdA chose the social aspects does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury. To this day, Mr Bosman himself has just been talking about the need for a good collective agreement for the people of Defence. But can I draw the conclusion from Mr Bosman's reply that if there is not enough extra money for the Defense Department, then that is the fault of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u41	Well, that's a very lame story, of course. Anyway, if Mr. Kerstens wants to play it that way, I'm fine with it. As I just said, it was a joint activity; that was very special. But if it suits him, it's a personal activity. That's kind of the cafeteria model. Never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u42	However, I would like to say a few words about the priority list. Mr Bosman was enthusiastic about what the cabinet said about this. In view of everything he has said about the interests of the staff, was he not a little disappointed when he read the five priorities of the cabinet and the word "staff" did not occur? Now he says, "Yeah, we're gonna do But tell me the truth. When you read that, you didn't think, "Oh, my God, the staff is getting a little crazy," did they? We need to spend more money and we have five priorities, but the word "staff" is not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u43	It was clear to me, because it is a letter to NATO. We have been asked from NATO: what can you deliver? In fact, NATO also looked at the Netherlands with a request: could you deliver that? It would be nice if this could be done in the spirit of joint action, with all kinds of coalition partners assuming responsibilities within NATO, within that coalition, and also bearing the burden where it comes from. I also did not find it strange that there was no direct discussion about the financing of a collective agreement for Dutch military, because it is a NATO discussion on the material aspects. I am still convinced that this cabinet is in the process of making a good collective agreement. So I wasn't surprised, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u44	We were able to read the letter to NATO, because it was there. NATO is calling for a credible national plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u46	I would have thought it quite logical if that credible national plan had started saying: we are going to do everything we can to stop the drain from the Defence Organisation, because if we do not have good people, we can buy a lot of stuff, but that will not help anyone. I would have thought that was a credible national plan, but the word "staff" is not mentioned at all. Indeed, as Mr Bosman says, it is only about stuff. That's a little unbelievable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u47	That would be an interesting discussion within NATO, where we are going to have all kinds of discussions about collective agreements between Germany, France, the Danes and the Norwegians: will we put them all together to see how these collective agreements are all going to work? I don't think that's the intention. I believe that this cabinet has made a very clear statement of its commitment and that staff is an essential part of what is needed for the broad employability and strength of the armed forces. The staff just gets in there first. I absolutely agree with Mr Öztürk, who says: if you don't have people, you can have good stuff, but you can't fly it, sail it, ride it and fight it. It is therefore essential, but I believe that this is the starting point of this minister and of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u48	That is a nice little bridge to the next speaker, Mr Öztürk of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u49	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bosman is ready to fly, so the chair has to go down a bit for me. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the vision of the future of Defense. The agenda contains important issues that are also of great concern to DENK. I'll begin with the abuses and the prevailing social insecurity within the Defense Department. Last October, we were shocked by the report of the Gibels Committee on the incidents and culture within the Defense Department. Turned out what? Defense culture promotes looking away. Police officers at the Defense Department are being countered, locked out and attacked. Employees who do ring the bell, who dare to do so, face serious psychological problems. The conclusions of the Research Council for Security and the Van der Veer Committee were also shameful. Defense failed to take care of the security of our military and is unable to take care of its personnel. Our soldiers don't feel safe themselves. Then how are they supposed to ensure the safety of others? Mr. Chairman. The Minister and the Secretary of State clearly have different priorities. For example, we let Trump determine our defence budget, so let our men and women fight for geopolitical and economic interests, so let our NATO contribution depend on Trump's tweeting behavior. That doesn't coincide with the main international tasks of the Dutch armed forces, such as contributing to peace, security and stability worldwide? No, Rutte prefers to succumb under Trump's pressure. He was sent a letter of formal notice from Washington, a letter of formal notice from Trump stating that he would soon have to pay more. Trump wants us to buy more guns so his friends get richer and richer. It's no secret that war is well deserved. In the Middle East in particular, armed conflicts are not only causing humanitarian suffering. No, also the sales figures of the world's largest arms exporter, America, increased by 25%. If you look at this list, you can see that we are in the ninth place as the Netherlands. So the Netherlands also exports a lot of weapons. The image is that we bring peace, but we also sell a lot of weapons unfortunately, and we should not allow ourselves to be abused for that. And all this at the expense of our education, our health care and our climate. What's the Cabinet doing? Is Rutte our prime minister or has he become a White House servant? DENK has a different view of the NATO standard of 2%. This standard focuses only on money, weapons and military show of power. This does not lead to more peace, this leads to more war. The NATO standard is a macho standard. The power of the Netherlands is not in fighting, the power of the Netherlands is in diplomacy and reconstruction. That is what we must invest in. Not in JSF fighters, Mr. Bosman, but in diplomats. Not in espionage, but in reconstruction. Not in expensive warships, but in de-escalation. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to geopolitical interests. They force us, as Europe, to tackle the political problems together. To this end, Europe must become more united and draw its own line. That means a course that takes more distance from Trump. As far as DENK is concerned, international peace and security must not depend on America. That is why DENK calls for a strong European army, with the remark that Member States retain their own sovereignty. It is up to each Member State to decide whether to make its soldiers available. I would like to ask the Minister to take the lead in this and form coalitions with countries in the same position. I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u50	Thank you. A question from Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u51	The image presented by Mr Öztürk of the armed forces is not clear to me. Is there another force in the image of Mr. DENK... eh, of DENK?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u52	Think of Henk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u53	All I hear is that it's all diplomacy, not military. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u54	You haven't listened well again, I notice today, Mr. Bosman. We certainly want a military force: a military force that first puts things in order internally, so with clothing and with the weapons that are needed. Then one must look outside and carry out missions in the context of the geopolitical plans of large countries. You choose to do it the other way around. You say: we must join the great powers, because then we can trade and raise money. The choice is ours: from the inside out. You are going with the big countries to be able to export more weapons and make more money. We choose diplomatic solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u55	Mr Öztürk says that he wants to arm the men and women of the armed forces well. Well, I guess I'm hearing that right. But he also wants to cut 1.7 billion. Unlike this cabinet, which adds 1.5 billion. Then you're talking about 3.2 billion off. That's 30% 30%! In the case of a military force consisting of 50% of staff and personnel costs. This means that there is only 20% left for the activities mentioned by Mr Öztürk. Is he aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u56	I've answered that question before. We have said: if we buy a few JSFs less, if we buy a few espionage submarines less, if we do a few missions less, we will find that we have enough money to provide our own military with basic facilities. But you're constantly choosing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u57	Mr Bosman chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u58	Mr Bosman chooses 'you can also say 'order'! It is also important for the European Union and the Member States to be able to take part in this process. We don't choose to do that. We choose our own army, our own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u59	But then I still have no idea what that army is exactly. The 20% that then remains for spending on those men and women of the armed forces... Mr Öztürk clearly shows that there is a great deal to be invested in these men and women. That's where equipment needs to go. They must have some good stuff. Then you can say "we're going to buy less," but that's already in the 1.5 billion less, or basically 3.2 billion. So you only have 20% left. You can't pay with that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u60	I have often explained this calculation to Mr Bosman. He doesn't want to understand. We do not need all this expensive equipment, all this expensive big toys that cause geopolitical suffering. If you don't give 25 million euros to the terrorists in Syria or groups in Syria, you'll have 25 million extra for our own people. That's the story I hear from the military. They say, "Wait a minute, my coat went to Syria and I have to go online and look for a coat." That's the problem you don't want to solve, and we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u61	Very good. Thank you. Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister just whispered a question to me. In reply, I am replacing Mrs Diks. I hope that this will not be necessary for much longer, not because I would not like these debates, but because I hope that my colleague, Mr Diks, will, of course, be better soon. Mr. Chairman. I have tried to imagine what it means: a credible national plan in which we indicate that we are going from the about 1.2% we are now spending on Defence to 2%. This applies not only to us but also to all other NATO Member States. That means, as far as I could verify, we'll be spending 100 billion more on Defense over the next six years. 100 billion. Maybe the Minister can confirm that figure. Then, of course, other countries, such as China and Russia, will react... For the record: 'we' meant not 'we Netherlands' but 'we NATO members'. In response, other countries are also going to spend extra money on Defence, such as China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Iran. At the very least, on the eve of such a new arms race, it would be a good idea to reflect on what that will mean in the near future: 100 billion new weapons within NATO, plus the reaction of all those other countries. Why is this reflection so important? Because the arms race itself can become a source of tension, my group's vision is. The letter sketches: there are a lot of tensions, so we all have to buy weapons. But that letter does not reduce the link between the purchase of all these weapons and the spending of money on them, and the tensions that this may entail. I would like a response from the Minister. Furthermore, the letter on exactly what we are going to do is still rather vague. This one does not mention numbers for the Netherlands and no time schedule. This one doesn't tell us how to go from 1.17% to 2%. And about when I'd like to hear more. Then the choices that are being made, Mr. Chairman. We have just discussed it in the various debates. We're gonna buy extra F-35s, we're gonna boost firepower on land and sea, we're gonna buy tanks again, so we can hear from the media. We're gonna strengthen the special operations and we're gonna strengthen the cyber and information domain. That's not exactly making choices. That's all we're gonna do. Then you can say that's also a choice because we're going to do everything more, but then you have to explain why that's necessary. For example, we left the tanks to the Germans a few years ago. Why is it suddenly necessary for us to do it ourselves again? Why is there so much haste? What is the reason why we are not first, as we were planning, reviewing the 2020 Defence Vision, if I am right, and having a good debate about it with a lot of participation from society? A motion by Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Diks has almost been voted on in Parliament. If we do that, we can have that discussion and see what choices we make. Then we can find out which material goes with it. Why can't we wait and why, if I understand it correctly, do we suddenly have to spend extra money on top of the 1.5 billion already earmarked for the Defence Act in the spring paper? Honestly, I don't quite understand what the rush is. Finally. If you're gonna do all this, I expect the cabinet to take a look at the necessary diplomatic component. Colleagues have already spoken about this. If there's so much tension, the answer can never be that we're just going to buy more weapons. Then that should be embedded in a broader foreign policy strategy in which diplomacy, development cooperation, trade and so on are also deployed. So I would appreciate it if new initiatives by the cabinet under this credible national plan would be accompanied by a political strategy that, for example, will ensure that we may not be faced with the withdrawal of the INF Treaty in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u63	Very good. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u64	That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u65	I have the impression that Mrs Karabulut wants to ask a question. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u66	Mr Van Ojik's plea for something other than more arms and militarisation is very appealing to me. Now it surprised me that Mrs Diks suggested a few months ago that you actually don't have enough 37 F-35s, but that you should actually have 10 more; that or nothing. Mrs. Diks isn't here, so I'll put the question to you as her replacement. I assume that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is still opposed to the purchase, and certainly against more purchase, of the JSF. Perhaps you could shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u67	We never thought it was a good idea to buy the JSF in this way. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has always argued in favour of having a strategic debate on the substance of why you need these planes and buying them off the shelf if you need them. If I remember correctly, that's always been the point of view. That is still the position. At the moment, I see no reason to say that the planned extension of the JSF programme by the cabinet is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u68	Okay, very clearly. Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also say that the planned extension of the purchase of additional weapons systems is not necessary, given the story of Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u69	In my group's view, this is not so easy to answer in all cases. My big objection to this story is the order in which it happens. A review of the Defence Strategy is planned for next year. There could be all sorts of reasons for that. To be honest, I can see that. I think the answer is now being rushed, because I do not see very well why we now, because the American President sends an angry tweet every now and then, all of a sudden have to jump into the position. I do not think that is necessarily necessary. So we need to have a good discussion about what we need strategically, because the interests of the staff take into account. I did not say that explicitly in my term, but some of you have rightly said so and then make choices. It may well be that one of those choices is that you need more of certain equipment than you have at your disposal. But just making a list and saying "we're gonna do everything extra" without any story underneath, except that you've ever said that you're gonna spend 2% of your gross national product on Defense, I think that's a bad story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u70	Resuming, then. Suppose, under these conditions, the Minister would indeed find billions in a few months' time and would say: Green Left Group, what do you want, submarines or teachers? Then you're gonna say to us, "Well, do teachers?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u71	Yes, unless there is such a convincing story for the submarines that I say: I will still try to convince my group that she needs to invest in submarines and not in teachers. But that's a very hypothetical situation. The story is missing; that is the big problem. We're going to spend a lot of billions more, but the story that goes with it isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u72	Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u73	Mr. Chairman. There's no shortage of strategies at the Department of Defense. It's also very much a part of the Defense Department. But having a lot of strategies is not the same as having or showing a vision. A vision is a broad definition of what the future should look like, from which these strategies, plans or tactics can be developed. To be honest, we do not have that real vision, that clear picture for the future of our armed forces. Now there is money and many parts of the armed forces urgently need new colleagues, more recognition and new equipment. But the question to this minister is and remains, even today: where is the greater vision? How can the DOD work on rebuilding the organization without that direction? How's it going in the future? How will the armed forces protect what is dear to us in the future? Mr. Chairman. A number of colleagues have already spoken about the fact that we have received a Defence Memorandum containing various elements to put the basis in order and to fill in the extra 1.5 billion per year, but in view of all the loose plans that come along all the time, I fear that we will arrive at the moment when that greater vision is needed. When I read in the NATO letter that there are more F-35s on the additional investment list, it seems as if we are dealing with short-term deficits and as if this is separate from the previously presented Defence Note. How do the extra investments relate to the future vision of Defense, regardless of whether you need additional fighters? What are the consequences for the other investment plans? Is there enough money for submarine capacity, for example? According to NATO, isn't this also a niche capacity? Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, all the investments we are making now are aimed not only at the current threats but above all at the future ones. As far as D66 is concerned, the art is to keep looking ahead and to include tomorrow's challenges in today's considerations. The investment paths are long and you are now spending the investments on what you need in the future. The years of budget cuts at the Department of Defense aren't making it easy. At the same time, this cannot be the argument that people are hiding behind. The future is what D66 also focuses on with regard to Defence: the basics of order, more European defence cooperation, the sustainability of your armed forces, a forward-looking, diverse and professional personnel policy and, of course, structural attention to technology and innovation. The most important of these themes is for D66 staff. They're making the force. They work day in, day out for the peace and security of our country, in Europe and around the world. They are our guarantee of peace and security and protect what is dear to us and they deserve to be heard. Then how come we still have no agreement on the collective agreement? So far, D66 has kept to the ground so as not to disrupt negotiations between the unions and the employer. Today I do want to do so: what is the state of the negotiations and to what extent does a mediator ultimately need to conclude a good collective agreement as soon as possible in accordance with a proposal I made a year ago? How is it possible that we are talking about the future of the armed forces but that the staff are still without a collective agreement? I hear it everywhere: people are very unhappy about the current salary. It's nice that in December many soldiers got a nice end-of-year bonus, but I just hear it everywhere. It is also wrong that a great deal of attention should be paid to all the equipment purchased but not to the staff. We're up to 8,000 vacancies. All that equipment makes no sense without staff. Finally, Mr President. Defense is in the vision of D66'er... No, D66; yes, we hope there are also D66's in Defense. I'm pretty sure they're all wearing green. In D66's view, defence is also primarily an employer who looks to his staff and has an eye and ear for their problems, an organisation that, by being self-critical, is open to feedback from all over the organisation, an organisation that is already thinking about the distant future, a partner that you can always build on as an employee and a partner that allies within NATO and the EU can always count on and protects what is dear to the Netherlands, the EU and the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u74	Mrs Belhaj said a lot of things that appeal to me. If I understood her correctly, she said, among other things, that before you start buying a lot of new stuff, you should actually have an underlying vision. My question is as follows. The Cabinet says that it will submit a number of additional expenditures for Defence in the Spring Paper. Does Mrs Belhaj agree with me that this could and should only be possible if we first had a debate on that strategic vision, which she and I both really need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u75	Yes, I understand that question, of course. We only have one small problem: the review note would come in 2020 and the promise made to NATO by several countries is to come up with a plan as soon as possible on how they want to implement the signature that was signed at that time. I therefore think that your question should be addressed to the Minister, because if she says that it is true that those other countries too will wait another year, it would be fantastic. Of course, it would be strange if the Netherlands were the only country that did not submit a plan, because then you could send a completely different signal. As far as I am concerned, it is very much up to the minister to answer whether it is necessary for NATO to have such a plan in the spring or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u76	Just in case, Mr. Chairman. We agree, in principle, that you should only spend extra money on Defence without personnel, because we also agree on this once you have had a good debate about what your strategic commitment to Defence is. Whether this fits within NATO's timetable is still the question that Mrs Belhaj is asking the Minister. But we agree on what we actually want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u77	I certainly agree with GroenLinks. Fortunately, we have another opportunity, towards the general consultation next week. I see everyone looking cozy, so apparently not. There's another possibility. I think this is important, because that was reflected in the Minister's letter on what we need. If you put that next to the Defence Note and all the other vision notes, you just don't get the relationship right. I think it is important for the Minister to clarify it today, or when we talk about it next week. What I don't want to experience is what the PvdA has experienced with the F-35's: you make an appointment about a maximum number of F-35's and about the amount you have left for it and in the end it turns out to be more needed. We'll probably get the same discussion in the submarine capacity. If this is also determined by NATO as niche capacity, then I do not want to have a conversation in October that we can only buy one and a half boats, or get the question: Room, do you have any extra money? At least I want to avoid that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u78	I very much agree with all the fine words that Mrs Belhaj devoted to the people of Defence and with her words that it is high time for a good collective agreement. I could have said that. In fact, I said it. My question is about something else. I would have thought that Mrs Belhaj would make a firm plea for a European army in her contribution, as a D66 minister said something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u79	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u80	Mrs Belhaj said something about this in the oral question. But now I only heard Mrs Belhaj say that closer European cooperation should be established. I agree with her very much. Does that mean that D66 has abandoned her idea or her wish that there should be a single European army?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u81	I looked at the time, the many issues and the fact that we are still going to talk about them very often in the coming weeks, but D66 is still a great supporter of a European armed force, alongside the existence of a national armed forces. I don't know why you'd be against that anymore today. It's really naive by now to think that Trump's threats are pure threats. If we continue to call for NATO to be the cornerstone of our security and if Trump withdraws, will we only decide if Europe decides to think about how to protect Europe? I really don't understand why parties aren't taking that step right now. I think Trump's threats are perfectly clear, apart from those threats to deliver that 2%. It is really serious and I think that Europeans in Europe deserve to feel safe and protected by a European military force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u82	It is nice that I gave Mrs Belhaj the opportunity to explain again how D66 looks at a single European army. I asked the Minister how she looked at that. I know that already, but I am also, of course, asking how she deals with the different views within the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u83	Very well, thank you. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u84	Just to clarify the previous point. The Minister writes, and those were the messages when the letter came out, that she intends to invest in those five capacity objectives in the Spring Paper. She writes: we intend to reserve extra money for this and we do so in the Defence Fund. Do I understand correctly that the position of D66 is that it does not say it at the moment, does not say it, and does not want it, because it must first be made clear what strategy and vision Defence has? And we all know that this is not exactly the cabinet of visions, so that will not be possible before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u85	Mrs Karabulut says a lot. What I want is for the Minister today to do her utmost to explain why these five additional investment choices have been made. If that is not entirely possible today, we will see the Minister next week to talk more specifically about it. And if the Minister says today that she has an obligation to hand something over to NATO as early as March, then we can say that we are waiting for that vision next year, but then it just crosses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u86	That is what the D66 Group is saying: what NATO wants, we must continue to follow, with all the consequences. But then my follow-up question would be: how much extra can that cost, and where does that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u87	Those are the most essential questions you can ask in this Chamber. We understand that the Minister would come up with a plan, but we were rather surprised that there were also images of what the amount would be. I think, with all the threats out there, it's completely legitimate to invest extra in defense. But what the amounts are, of course, we will not see until spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u88	But should I conclude that when the question comes up whether we should invest more in education or in submarines, D66 probably chooses the submarines instead of the teachers, even though she claims to be an education party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u89	D66 has worked hard to get 1.5 billion for education in this cabinet period. That's what worked. All I'm saying is, if there's room, if the minister gets room and the Chamber agrees, I'm not gonna lie down for that. That's what you hear me say. We like D66 are so happy with all that investment in education...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u90	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u91	... with that good European attitude, that vision that radiates from it, the Climate Law that exists, and so I can continue. There are so many successes that we want to celebrate, but there is simply not enough time to tell all of this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u92	Yes. You'd almost think there'd be elections. I call Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u93	Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union apologizes. He asked me today to represent the CDA and the Christian Union in this input. Of course, I'd be happy to do that. It is now clear, in the year of 75 years of liberation, that freedom is not a peaceful property. Peace and security aren't free either. And the world around us is changing fast. From the weekend we saw again that the Chinese are spying on our aviation, our space travel and what else. The Russians annex Crimea and build an increasingly large and stronger army. And the other day, suspects of terrorism were arrested in the Netherlands. To defeat these threats, the Netherlands needs a strong army. Several colleagues have already said that this can only be done with motivated soldiers, with a lot of knowledge and experience. For that, it is necessary that the Defense Department is an attractive employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u94	Before you start a new paragraph, we are going to give Mr Öztürk the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u95	The CDA colleague talks about "threats" and has mentioned a number of them. How can it be that as a small country the Netherlands is so often threatened with cyber and espionage? Is that also due to our international role, so that we also hack other countries or do jobs for America? Or do other countries think we are very important and are they therefore trying to hack in here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u96	No. The Netherlands is of course a special country. It is a particularly prosperous country with a lot of knowledge and skills, with a lot of companies that are also extremely interesting internationally, with new developments because we have a strong science. All this makes countries like China very happy to look at what we are doing here illegally. As a country, we simply have a lot to offer and there is a lot to steal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u97	But there are several countries that have that technology. We hear that the Netherlands is hacked more often or is being spied on by large countries. I'm trying to get the CDA to think: can't it be a little bit of us, because we're part of that hacking story with our cyber, and we're doing jobs with the Americans and other countries? That might make people think, "Wait a minute, we'll come back and we'll see how you're doing."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u98	There are two aspects to this. Firstly, I would like to hear from Mr Öztürk where it says that we are being hacked more than other countries. Last week, we had a debate with the Minister of Defence, Mr Öztürk was not there, and I asked the Minister why our cyber-soldiers in the Defence Cyber Command had never committed a cyber attack. I hear Mr Öztürk now saying that these cyber attacks cannot be carried out. I just got the answer from the Secretary of Defense last week that we've never implemented one. There you have the answer to your question. We've never done a cyber attack! I find it scandalous: our cyber-soldiers must also ensure that they are able to act properly. That's why I suggested they help the police because they could use a few more people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u99	Mr Öztürk, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u100	I read the other day that we helped the FBI catch El Chapo. So our intelligence services are doing more than we know as Chambers. Let's be honest about that. I think there's more going on with our people in faraway countries, with our intelligence services. There'll be a reason for that, too. My point is that the more we interfere with such countries, the more attacks we will have. Should we not think about this as a country? Our citizens will also suffer from these attacks. How far do we go in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u101	Look, there's two sides to that. Mr Öztürk actually says that our intelligence and security services are very good. That has also been shown in recent times. I can neither confirm nor deny it. Of course, we hear this very often from the ministers here. Minister Blok wouldn't tell us if we tracked down the Chinese. Then there's El Chapo. What we do know is that we have caught the Russians here in their collars. So these people are doing great work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u102	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u103	Yes. What you see is that the Netherlands is a very attractive target. We are one of the most digitized countries. We have the Amsterdam Internet Exchange. If Mr Öztürk says: throw out the internet, throw out the Amsterdam Internet Exchange... 'Cause that's what you're actually asking. Then we're not attractive anymore. I am sure Mr Öztürk will say: we are not going to do that, because we simply have to do our job. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet invests $5 billion in defense. That is a first step after decades of austerity. It is a good start, but it is not enough to meet future challenges. I have just spoken to Mr Öztürk: Europe is prosperous, but militaryly weak. Without the Americans, we are barely able to face Russia, or to defend ourselves against China's advance. You can see that after years, geopolitics is back. The velvet glove of diplomacy needs a fist. We can't do that anymore. It is not for nothing that NATO is asking for more power. The urgency is also great. In 2014, the Prime Minister signed in the previous cabinet to spend 2% of GDP on Defence. The Netherlands is now 1.16%. We're dangling at the bottom of the NATO list. If we don't do something, it won't be much better by 2024. This is damaging to the Netherlands, but it is also damaging to our own security. On Christmas, I read a nice interview with the Prime Minister in the Elsevier. I quote him: 'It is an embarrassment that we do not comply with the NATO standard of 2%. President Donald Trump is often wrong, but here he is. The Netherlands should increase the Defence budget more towards 16 billion." I'm quitting my quote. The Prime Minister is about to present this plan to NATO. So can the CDA assume that extra money will be made available with the Spring Note, now that the Prime Minister attaches his own soul and salvation to this plan? That will agreement was first a promise, a desire to grow to 2%. In October, NATO's top boss indicated that it had become a requirement. That means 7 billion for the Netherlands. I will be honest: the 7 billion will not be added now. But hopefully we can take a step. Other countries won't make it either. Hence my question, which Mrs Karabulut has also asked. Over the last few weeks, there have been several reports in the newspaper that Trump has said that he has really threatened to leave NATO. What are the chances of this happening? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. Defence Ministers will discuss the submitted national plans on 5 and 6 February 2019. So they're gonna argue about those plans, but when will the official offer take place? Because that letter says the Prime Minister has to offer that plan. What if it turns out that NATO said in that first discussion in February: the Netherlands, that plan is not really enough? Is there going to be a new national plan? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u104	Thank you. Then Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u105	The Forum for Democracy often hears very disturbing stories from Defence Circles about what happened at barracks in 2010 and in 2012 on the day before the elections. The army management who addresses the staff and advises to vote mainly for the VVD and the CDA, because the VVD and the CDA would take such good care of the Defence budget and would not make a discount. But what did the Ministers Hillen and Hennis do? It's worth a billion structural cuts on the Defense Department. And with tricks such as stealing the international security budget of the Ministry of Development and Foreign Affairs, it is about 300 million a year, the Defence budget is kept cosmetically up to date. People's licking! No wonder that more and more people at the Defence Department in 2019 will no longer address this type of voting advice. In the 1980s, the Defence budget was a proud 3% of GDP, but after decades of austerity it was still a weak 1.2%. The consequences are dramatic. In the meantime, there are nearly 10,000 vacancies available at the Department of Defense. The Cabinet now hires all kinds of consultants, but you just have to hire soldiers. When will the working conditions agreement finally come about? Can the Minister inform us about the ways in which she sees herself in order to finally fill those vacancies? We reach weekly, sometimes daily messages, e-mails and other messages from soldiers from our constituents about the appalling conditions in barracks, about the poor equipment with which they have to work, about legionella bacteria and so on. How will the Minister improve these conditions? What is the state of play regarding the legionella outbreaks at barracks which we have asked Parliamentary questions about? Last year the cabinet wanted to send soldiers to Norway for training without winter coats being arranged. They'd have to buy them themselves. What has the Minister done to ensure that such situations can never happen again in the future? The incompetence is poignant. This is also evident from the completely stalled GrIT project for boundless IT, the big ICT project of Defence that should renew all Defence-IT infrastructure. A project with a budget of no less than EUR 1.5 billion that is completely out of control. KPN has even withdrawn from the project. Can the Minister explain the current state of the project? In the newspaper we read that the tax money at the Minister of Finance Hoekstra flies up against the plinths, after years of heavy burdens imposed by the Rutte Cabinets. Hoekstra doesn't know what to spend the money on. The reservoir with billions, I read in the newspaper, is getting bigger and bigger. Well, we do. FvD wants to raise the Defence budget to 2% of GDP. This amounts to an additional annual investment of EUR 5 billion in defence. That's really necessary. Much more money is needed for better working conditions and decent salaries for our military. More money to honour the pension agreements and more money to make the necessary investments in equipment and barracks, not to take absurd interventions in countries very far away, but to defend our own country in the first place. As far as FvD is concerned, our army first goes on a mission in the suburbs of large cities to put things in order. We also want a structural expansion of the NATRES, the National Reserve, for two reasons. That is what we want in order to protect our vital infrastructure in the event of a major catastrophe, an attack or any other major event that could happen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u106	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u107	... but also to promote social cohesion, to stimulate patriotism. Then you get something you see in Israel, maybe a little bit in the Netherlands: a sense of national pride, because in every family there is someone in the National Reserve. The Democracy Forum therefore wants to increase the expenditure on defence in a structural way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u108	You're screaming through your time going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u109	That's why it's a good thing I'm with the last sentences. We are going to invest in more men with better working conditions in equipment, own tanks, drones, aircraft and ships. More appreciation, also financially, for our military.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u111	Not an EU army and a military in Defense as next minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u112	Period! Mrs Belhaj has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u113	There were so many ambitions in the military that it went a little fast, but one thing struck me. I thought, "Did I miss something?" Is there so much war in neighborhoods in the Netherlands that you want to deploy the armed forces there, and not on all those parts? Which wars in the neighborhoods in the Netherlands do you mean exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u114	Does Mr Baudet mean exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u115	What do you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u116	You must say that Mr Baudet means exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u117	Yes, through your chairman. Is Mr Baudet now saying that there is a war in the neighborhoods in the Netherlands? I don't know them, but perhaps Mr Baudet does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u118	There are neighborhoods in the Netherlands, and that is becoming more and more, where it seems almost war, where there is almost a war zone, where the police can no longer maintain properly. It is, I think, extremely important that we put things in order there. I know that D66 is a party that looks away from this structuralally, looking at this kind of problem with pink glasses, but it is very bad in many parts of the Netherlands. And there may not be your voters there, but there are a lot of people there who deserve to have legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u119	Mr President, you hardly know whether to laugh very loudly or cry very loudly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u120	I think you should cry very hard...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u121	That Mrs. Belhaj is crying very hard. But Mrs Belhaj has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u122	...and then take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u123	We have good police here in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a beautiful country. There are people who are very happy that they live in their beautiful neighborhood, that they can count on enforcement if necessary. That's the Netherlands I know. You are really sketching an image as if there are war situations in the Netherlands. I think what you're telling me right now is just bullshit. I do think it is important to highlight this, unless you still bring proof of where these so-called war zones are in the Netherlands. Otherwise, it's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u124	There are about 65,000 people employed by the police in the Netherlands. Of those, about 50,000 are actually cops on the street. That's not enough. There are huge shortages in the police department. There's also a huge backlog in tracking. There are a lot of neighborhoods that are structurally unsafe. I find this intervention really very funny. So you're supposed to be crying. But I can laugh, because you seem to be unaware of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u125	Mrs Belhaj is not aware, you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u126	No, that's what it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u127	The fact that Mr Baudet and his party advocate a kind of apartheid structure in the Netherlands is not surprising, given his ideological background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u128	Apartheid structure? What the hell are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u129	Mrs. Karabulut is just finishing her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u130	But what I am curious about is the 5 billion that Mr Baudet wants to invest in new weapons, in the army and so on. You're against interventions. You don't want to wage wars in the far Middle East, et cetera. Then where should these weapons be deployed? Is that all in the Dutch neighborhoods and neighborhoods?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u131	No. I am not against all forms of intervention in principle. Only, what I do think is that we've been involved in recent projects that you might be wondering what the hell we were doing there. And whatever the hell that was, I think that was something you also mentioned in your contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u132	What Mrs Karabulut said in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u133	Yeah, exactly. ... which has not improved the situation at all but, on the contrary, greatly deteriorated. So what we do is very counterproductive. On the one hand, we simply have too few people to defend our own country, to make our own country safe, to defend our vital infrastructure, to put things in order in neighbourhoods where the situation is sometimes very serious. One. Two. We're wasting that little bit of military manpower we have on projects abroad, on missions far away that don't get us anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u134	Sure. But that is also why I ask the question: where is the 5 billion? Because the moment you stop doing interventions in the highest spectrum of violence elsewhere, you need less weaponry. That $5 billion has to come from somewhere, too. This is, I fear, also at the expense of those agents, the teachers, in all these neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, at the expense of social security. That's why I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u135	Well, no, it's not at the expense of policemen and not at the expense of teachers, because we want to give them more, pay more. It could be at the expense of the absurd climate plans, for example, which have also helped to support the SP, and the Climate Law, which the SP has co-submitted, which is going to cost us 1,000 billion. That's where all that money comes from, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u136	A correction for Mr Baudet, let the facts speak. We have indeed voted in favour of the Climate Act because we want to leave a clean world for future generations. That needs to be addressed. But we stand for climate justice, where polluters, such as the large multinationals, are allowed to pay. And unfortunately, Mr Baudet is against that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u137	Well, no, but the point is that those...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u138	Let's change the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u139	...that of course pass it on to the customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u140	Maybe go back to the D.O.D.?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u141	Is that what you decide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u142	Well, I'm just suggesting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u143	The suggestion has been rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u144	We're not gonna turn this into a climate debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u145	It doesn't make any sense, because that's one of those funny things in that discussion, which the left apparently thinks you can tax businesses indefinitely without the consumer noticing. You get bit by the dog or the cat. If you do not want to raise prices for consumers and get it from companies, then those companies are going to raise prices again. That's how it works, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u146	When I started to follow the Forum for Democracy, I also had a bit of a feeling at first: "They are addressing the established order a bit. They put the established order "VVD', "CDA' and a number of other parties in mind. That's nice." I can see that Mr Baudet is passing Mr Wilders. Put the army in the neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u147	Oh, I thought you meant in the polls.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u148	Yeah, that too. Anyway, I also saw in the interview that he wants you to be his servant. That was kind of weird, too. Then I thought, "He wants you as a minister, he's got plenty of servants at the PVV." Anyway, my question is to Mr Baudet: are you not getting a bit ahead of yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u149	Isn't Mr. Baudet shooting through a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u150	Yeah, well translated. My question is then: will Mr Baudet not go a little further and will he not try to do a bit of electoral rhetoric to bring in the PVV voters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u151	Mr. Chairman. The answer to this question is negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u152	Thank you. Then we'll go to the next speaker. Oh, Mr. Kerstens has another question. Mr. Baudet, if you'd like to stay for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u153	Yes, while Mr Öztürk is still recovering from Mr Baudet's reply. I thought I heard Mr Baudet argue to go to the agreed NATO standards when it comes to spending on defence. Does that also mean that Mr Baudet agrees with NATO's analysis of, for example, the increased threat from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u154	One of the previous speakers said that as a Chamber you can actually say relatively little about the reports of the security services. That's, I think, a proper observation. There are a lot of things we don't see and then you have to take on some of them and so on. I have a certain agnostic attitude to that. I am assuming things that are expressed in reports, but I can make certain analyses with my own ratio. And then I think that from Russia, in my view, there is relatively little interest in attacking the Netherlands. I don't see that one-two-three happening. Anyway, it's very good to go into reports from all kinds of intelligence agencies and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u155	I'm gonna have to catch up on this, too. Do I understand that Mr Baudet says: we have to look at the standard agreed at NATO, and then NATO looks at what we are doing with all these billions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u156	I do not think I have talked about NATO, I have talked about increasing the defence budget to 2% of GDP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u157	Finalizing, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u158	That's NATO standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u159	That is true, but that is not why I am calling for it to be brought to 2%. I think it's just a good standard for the Netherlands to have its safety level. Whether or not you want to undertake certain projects in an alliance is an interesting question, but it is completely unrelated to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u160	I've already had Mrs. Belhaj in this interrupting round. Can we have one short and pointy question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u161	I'm gonna do my best, but something really incredibly crazy happened here. Someone's talking about NATO. If you know where NATO comes from, you'll think of the Cold War and Russia. At the same time, he says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I believe that this Chamber has the right to know how the Forum for Democracy stands in this regard. Does Mr Baudet take seriously what is going on and that there are Russian threats, yes or no? Is he for or against NATO now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u162	Well, I think the Russian threat is being greatly exaggerated. I don't believe any of that very much. I don't think there's such a huge threat. At the same time, it is also the case that all kinds of security services are investigating all kinds of things that we hear only a part of. And you're gonna have to take that part of it or not. You can ask critical questions about it, but we don't know much about it either. You could also say that there is a huge threat from Belgium or something. It seems very unlikely to me, but all right, I take all kinds of things. That's interesting. We can talk about that. My own assessment is that the threat is much less than it is proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u163	Did Mr Baudet miss the fact that four Russians were arrested taking an Internet action against the OPCW? The whole discussion on the MH17 seems to be completely ignored by Mr Baudet. I find it really impossible for him to talk so easily about risks that we all see. He pushes it away for a while: it's not that bad; I have my own agnostic image of reality. Well, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u164	I didn't really hear a question, but I do want to say something about it. Look, there's a lot going on in the world. There are many countries, including the United States, that engage in espionage activities. If a espionage activity is extremely unprofessional, as was the case with this Russian espionage action, where they apparently wanted to spy on the OPCW, while they could have just gone inside, then you might ask who exactly was behind it and how exactly it went. I think it's a very... It is, of course, extremely difficult to say anything about that. You take all that without a hitch. You read something in the paper and you think, "Oh, I'm sure that's true." I'm a little more sceptical about that, I'm a little more critical about that. I take that news to myself, but I don't know exactly what happened there. To say that we are on the verge of this is a bit of the rhetoric I hear here of a great conflict between the West and Russia, I do not think. I think there are bigger threats, for example radical Islam. I think that is a much greater and much more acute danger. Look at the Turkish riots. We can't even control them in our own country. I think that is a much more real and direct danger than what may be happening elsewhere, but I am open to it. If there are news reports or reports on this matter, I will approach them with an open mind. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u165	Mr Baudet is not in favour of this, because he blames me for taking over the information from the newspaper without blinking...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u166	I am in favour of it, but Mr Bosman is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u167	Mr Bosman has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u168	That's right. Our services, which are highly regarded, are seriously concerned about the threat of Russian interventions, Chinese interventions, and all those things more, including with regard to jihadists. That is clear, but Mr Baudet is constantly running away from the discussion on the Russian threat. I don't understand. From what our services say, that whole row, and what he accepts, he doesn't accept the part about Russia. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u169	No. I think I'm critical of all the reports that appear. I also asked questions about what was being said about Assad's attacks in Syria. It was said immediately: we know what is going on, he did it. I said this in the Chamber: I do not know at all, let us continue to look at everything critically. I find it at least remarkable how all these noses suddenly go one way. The great enemy is constantly Russia, but when I look at Russia, I see a country that is very weak economically, a country that is very weak demographically, a country that is very weak in every possible way. At the same time, I see a double standard with us when it comes to the way we deal with it and extreme indignation about alleged espionage activities, while in the context of the ECHELON programme of America, all the phones of all European politicians were constantly being bugged, for years, but nobody crows at them. I believe that I have a much more open, critical and neutral look in that regard than Mr Bosman, who is now laughing so cocky because he is so sure. I think it's better to be a little more critical and skeptical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u170	I do not see a neutral view of Mr Baudet, because he has a judgment on everything, but apparently he has missed the fact that the Russians are now dealing with hypersonic nuclear missiles. That's not a weakened country. It is not a country that is tackling its demographic problems. It's a country engaged in offensive attack policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u171	There's so much going on in the world. Mr Baudet believes that the Russian threat is being exaggerated, but it is becoming increasingly mysterious why Mr Baudet wants to spend 5 billion more on defence. He may want to explain that, but I would point out that the MH17, the illegal annexation of Crimea, the interference in Eastern Ukraine. Let me just mention three things. Facts or no facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u172	The occupation of Western Sahara by Morocco, the occupation of Northern Cyprus by Turkey. Facts or no facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u173	Facts!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u174	Do we have diplomatic relations with Morocco and Turkey? Do we have trade with Morocco and Turkey? Yes. So does a geostrategic conflict that Russia has with Ukraine mean that we must be at war with Russia? No. You can't do things one-on-one that way... A lot of complicated things are happening in the world. Of course, we have to be critical about this, but I cannot say that our current approach is very constructive in my view. It is also extremely bad, for our horticulture, for example, that we have all these trade boycotts with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u175	This is a drink talk. I'm sorry. We also have diplomatic relations with Russia. We also trade with Russia. I do not believe that anyone here in this Chamber is saying that we should break diplomatic relations with Russia. So it's a drink talk. It is about whether you can say that Mr Baudet says: well, there is so much going on in the world that there is an increasing threat. Mr Baudet says: no, there is no such thing, at least not from Russia, and I do not need all these foreign interventions if necessary, but I want an additional 5 billion for the defence sector. I can't get a rope there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u176	Yeah, but that's for me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u177	To be honest, I can't tie a rope to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u178	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u179	No, but can I say something after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u180	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is true that I do not see this additional expenditure in the defence sector primarily in the context of an upcoming conflict with Russia, which you may see. I note that there are increasing tensions between the West and Russia, but I have a strong impression that the West is also helping with enormous war rhetoric, all kinds of NATO exercises all the way to the border and I know what it is all about. You may also wonder if we do not have a certain escalating effect in that, while we might also be able to act de-escalatingly. That depends on your views on what Russia really is. An interesting analysis I've read before is that the enormous disgust of Russia you encounter in Western elites has to do with the fact that Russia doesn't want to be a postmodern country. Russia really wants to be a country, to stand up for a certain national identity, to have borders and to have a national interest that one stands up for. In this sense, it is the exact opposite of what the EU wants to be. The EU people want no borders and no identity, are against religion, at least against Christianity and so on. Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that Russia is carrying out a different kind of ideology and that makes the left-wing elites in the West very nervous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u182	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u183	Yeah, the white wine sipping left elite, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u184	There are all kinds of words in my mouth here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u185	No, no, no, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u186	... because that's an aspect I have nothing against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u187	...I wouldn't dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u188	What was your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u189	De-escalation wants and at the same time calls for 5 billion extra defence expenditure. I think they're gonna be surprised about that in Russia. Or not, I ask Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u190	If there is a very expert FvD Minister for Defence who is making a nice plan, in cooperation, of course, with the FvD Minister for Foreign Affairs, for what the manner of action will be and what the plans will be, then I think it is very clear that we would not want to use it in an offensive conflict with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u191	Let me say first of all that radical Islam is also a major threat, but I would like to take it back on Russia. Mr Baudet just said: I do not really have any public sources that Russia is really a danger. The letter on which this debate is based literally states that Russia is currently the greatest threat and that Russia has a military preponderance. That's a public document. In this letter from the cabinet, it says that the biggest threat is Russia at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u192	Yeah, that's right. But that's an opinion. There's a laugh here, but it's an opinion. So there's someone in this case who thinks something's a threat. Opinions are of course based on observations and analyses. Some of these observations are not accessible, because they are intelligence observations that we do not see. That's what I meant. But some observations we can see, and so on, and on that basis I do not see an increased threat from Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u193	I have just heard Mr Baudet say: I would like to have a military minister. Well, a few weeks ago, we had an excellent briefing from the Commander of the Armed Forces. The Commander of the Armed Forces has said to the Chamber: Russia is currently the greatest threat and we should be pleased that we are not currently at war with Russia, because we are losing it. Is that sufficient proof for you that Russia is a danger? The Commander of the Armed Forces says so, someone who is the highest military in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u194	No, that's not enough reason for me to accept that all the time. No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u195	Then my question to Mr Baudet is: if the highest military in the Netherlands says something is a threat, if the annual report of the STUDY and the AIVD states that Russia is a threat and if the letter of the Cabinet states that Russia is currently the greatest threat, what proof does Mr Baudet want to have that Russia is indeed a threat? Who's gonna say that to him, does he want to believe it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u196	I think this was also the first question I received in this round of speeches. I'm standing there, I said that at the time, open, but relatively agnostic. When these people come up with comments like this, I take it seriously and listen to it. There's only such a thing as your own observational ability, your own analysis. I don't see that. I also find it very irrational actually to believe that it would be. I don't see any interest in attacking the Netherlands from Russia. I do not see at all what problem that would solve. I also think there are all kinds of political motives in which threats you take out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u197	It's the highest military.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u198	Yes, the highest military. Also the highest military can certainly be influenced by all kinds of motives and so on. I think it's so cute that you're so naive in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u199	No, Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u200	A personal fact, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u201	A personal fact from Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u202	Mr President, I was made here for cute and naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u203	Not sweet. "Cute" I really didn't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u204	No, cute and naive. I would like to make it clear that I am a former military officer, a veteran, that I was a platoon commander in Uruzgan and that I shot off an armored hater there. That's far from cute, and that's far from naive. Then you, Mr Baudet, sat in a study and I was a soldier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u205	Yeah, but I didn't talk about that either. It wasn't a personal fact either. I have an opinion on your opinion. I think that view is adorable. I think it's adorable that there's apparently such a naive belief in someone who says something, like: oh, but then it's true. I believe that a starting point for the democratic debate is that we all look critically at all the facts and impressions. Someone says something, and I've always said that I take that seriously, that I'm open in it. It's just not like, oh, there's a report. That is, by the way, a general criticism I have of the whole process here: "it's in a report; oh, we'll take it over" and "o, we have a problem; let's get someone to write a report." We're allowed to form our own opinions, aren't we? We can think for ourselves, can't we? Of course, if the Commander of the Armed Forces or anyone else says anything, we'll take it seriously. But it's not "o, we'll take over" because then you don't have a democracy, but a technocracy, and I don't think we're all working on that here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u206	Clear. I've already heard Mr. Kerstens in this round. Can we limit it to one question, just like Mrs Belhaj just did?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u207	A very short, pressing question. Mr Baudet said he wanted a military man to be a future Secretary of Defense. I understand that it must be a military man who, unlike all his colleagues, thinks that Russia is one of our great friends. My question is, where do you get the military from? Maybe from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u208	Yeah, this is an interesting rhetorical trick. I myself do not immediately see the acute danger from Russia. Then this PvdA man says:...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u209	Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u210	... oh, apparently he thinks Russia is our best friend. That's kind of a total reversal. I didn't say that at all. I think we live in a realistic world. We have no friends in international politics, there are only interests. Of course, if those interests clash very badly, that could lead to a military conflict. But I do not see that at the moment there is such a clash of interests between the Netherlands and Russia that I consider it realistic that there will be a military conflict. Mr Kerstens is looking back on his phone at the moment, but I am trying to answer his question. I say again: I am open to all the analyses, all the facts that demonstrate such a plannery from Russia to invade the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u211	Very well, thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bertema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u212	Thank you, Mr President. I stand here as a substitute for my colleague Gabrielle Popken, who unfortunately is ill. I give her my regards to all of you. "Good-bye, and good-bye" I hear from the Chamber. I'll be sure to pass that on, Mr. Chairman. An important reason for this debate is, of course, the lack of clarity that has arisen about the vision for the future of defence. For example, there is intense discussion in the cabinet about whether or not an EU army. And the Minister of Defence announced in mid-December that money would be added, which was later denied by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Ollongren. Unclearness all over the place. What are we to do with the reports that Minister Bijleveld says that a European army goes too far, and that Minister Ollongren in Copenhagen at a meeting of a sister party of D66 says that we should be aiming for an EU army? Mr. Chairman. It is clear to us that the views of the cabinet when it comes to the future of defence do not correspond to reality. There's no real plan, there's no cover. It'll follow the spring note, we'll hear about it. That is why we find this debate rather useless, because there is still so much unclear. That is certainly true, given that there are still so many problems and abuses in terms of staff and equipment. There are 8,000 vacancies; it's like education, and that's where I'm talking about a system crisis. The embarrassing stories about the barracks in Schaarsbergen, the winter coats that were ordered far too late, rejected mortars that were still used, journalists who had uncontrolled access to barracks and the dramatic events about that kind of paint chrome-6 are still very fresh in our memory. There is also still a culture in which the House of Representatives hears about serious abuses and incidents all the time afterwards. I'm very sorry about that. All these views about the future that we are now familiar with are fun and kind, but are very unrelated to the reality that Defense is facing today. Mr. Chairman. The silence surrounding the plans for an EU army is anything but reassuring to us. The EU's modus operandi is well known to us: always that flight forward towards that 'ever closer union'. That is a truly comprehensive objective. So it makes sense that the urophils want to move towards an EU army as soon as possible. We therefore call on the Minister to clarify whether or not this cabinet wants to participate in that EU army. That is not a difficult question, but it is a very fundamental question. We are talking here about the sovereignty of our nation with its inseparably linked control over our sword power. The minister, as servant of the Crown, of the nation of the Netherlands, does not have the political obligation to give a ruling on this once and for all? But from the adage that the cabinet speaks with one mouth. As we know, the EU is not the solution for us. This Union is an ever-growing problem for us. We do not want to become part of a massive and log EU army within an EU superstate. I call on the Minister to take responsibility for the armed forces and for the Dutch electorate, whose mandate she finally has, and to respond to them. Mr. Chairman. We cannot even defend our own territory because of the destruction of our armed forces. I'm not saying that, yes, I'm saying it too, but in 2016 Minister Hennis said it. However, we will see that we are once again talking about all kinds of hopeless missions abroad, which put too much pressure on our equipment and personnel. Our armed forces should be there to secure our borders against the jihadists, who freely enter and leave our country, and against the street terror, which the police hardly get a grip on. That's what the focus should be on. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u213	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the minister. I'm suspending until 6:10 p.m. If you think that takes a long time, think about the fact that there is now 1,700 kilometers of traffic. 2,000 kilometers, I hear. It grows and it grows!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u214	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to start with what is on the agenda: the NATO letter. I thought it best to do that today. I would like to explain to you the process that led to this letter. There was a summit of Heads of Government in Brussels in July. There the NATO Heads of Government agreed that there should be a credible national plan for NATO by 31 December of last year. So there can be absolutely no misunderstanding about the fact that the Netherlands, as one of the allies, chairwoman, through you, I see that Mr Van Ojik nodded to surrender a plan. That was agreed at the summit. The Dutch government, the cabinet, has chosen to fix that letter not on the last Council of Ministers for Christmas, but on the penultimate. That was December 14th, if you look at the dating. That was just a week before the Chamber recessed. In this way, the Chamber was able to include that letter in the discussions before we offered it. Our Prime Minister offered it, as you know. There were several debates with the Defense Department that week. That's the process we're standing here for. That's also the letter that's on the table. Mr. Chairman. When I listen to the debate in the first term, it seems as if we are having a mini-budget treatment with each other in which all kinds of subjects come along. I will certainly answer the questions raised by the Chamber. But this was not the basis for which we stand here. I would like to make it very clear what this plan is based on. This is indeed based on what we wrote in the Defence Memorandum and what we discussed in the budget debate. I would point out to the members of the Chamber that I also mentioned the five capacities we have chosen at the time. That's what we talked about. No amendments were tabled at that time. So I wanted to take you into our world of thinking about the letter that's just on the agenda. Then I'll check all the other points afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Nor have you noticed that the world has changed in recent years, especially since the meeting in Wales in 2014. That is also what Mr Blok and I, on behalf of the entire cabinet, have been trying to convey. It has also been discussed in inter-ruption debates in various briefings: the close security environment of our beautiful country has become more unstable and the threat picture has become much more complex. We have also tried to indicate that conventional threats have not been reduced and that new threats are now coming towards us. I think it's good to realize that. As a result, there is no reference to the tasks of Defence, but Defence must be prepared for more and more types of threats. That's actually the essence of why we're standing here. For example, Russia's increasingly assertive attitude has security implications for the Netherlands and Europe. We must work in this changing context. In addition, there is still unrest at the southern borders of Europe. So you can see that Europe has become more vulnerable and more vulnerable if we do not anticipate it on our own. Fortunately, we are part of an alliance and we are not alone responsible for the defence of our country. The defence of our country and the Kingdom is, of course, our first constitutional task, but all NATO members jointly protect our security. That's what we agreed 70 years ago. In that sense, I agree with what Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Bosman said: it is the year of 75 years of liberation. We start the battle for the Scheldt in the Netherlands on 31 August. Then it is good to realize that 70 years ago we made agreements about this with each other, that we are partners, allies, each other and that we can expect something from each other. If, as European countries within our alliance, we do not move the beacons and are not intrinsically motivated to invest more in our security, then we are no longer able to stand up for our security. Despite the strong transatlantic link, which I very much believe in, we, as European countries, must also invest more ourselves. That is why our Prime Minister, at last July's NATO summit, I began by agreeing with the other Heads of Government and Heads of State to present at the end of last year a credible national plan to show how we are moving in the coming period towards 2% and towards the NATO capacity objective. Mr. Chairman. I think that is what I would like to say as a general introduction. It is true that we agreed to this in 2014; all the members of the Chamber who have said that are right. We have taken a number of steps. I myself have qualified the investments this cabinet makes in Defense at the beginning of my period as a good start. You know all that, don't you? I said at the time that we were still not there, but that it was a good start to recovery. The Prime Minister, of course, has also said the necessary things about the need for more to be done. So he sent the national plan to NATO on time, before 31 December. We are going to talk about this in February. In fact, as Mrs Belhaj said, we always have a proper, orderly preparation for this discussion. We always send out an agenda of what's going on in NATO Defense ministerial. Then we can talk about that further. But that's what we do here, and that's what we did. We need to become stronger and faster to deploy. We need to be able to hold on longer. In addition, we need to work on long lines to the future in order to take further steps. That's what's here for you. The cabinet has chosen those five capacities to invest in. This will be further weighted in the Spring paper and a follow-up step will be taken. That is what the Cabinet has told you, and so has the Cabinet informed NATO. I think that is enough for the general introduction before I answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u216	The minister began with the past; the minister began with peace and security in 75 years. Why does the Minister think that, because NATO is asking for it and because the United States is escalating in its relationship with Russia, a new cold war, further militarisation and thereby investing additional billions in that armament would make me, the Netherlands and Europe safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u217	In my opinion, Mrs Karabulut asked for this in her contribution. Then she asked whether further militarisation is really the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u218	But I'm asking this question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u219	Sure, but I can't get to that. We have talked together, with all our allies, about the importance of being able to defend ourselves at European level and to be tailored to it. I have explained to you for a reason that the threat in the world has indeed changed. The security environment has simply deteriorated; read the Integrated Foreign and Security Strategy and read the Defence Note. We need to take more complex threats into account; it has become more complex. We ourselves as the Netherlands are one of the allies in NATO and must remain a reliable international partner in the cabinet, including in the field of defence. Of course, we must prevent it from escalating, but we must ensure that we are ultimately also tailored to our own defences, precisely because of the consideration that Mrs Bruins Slot rightly mentioned: it is not so obvious that we are free here and that we are safe. That's why we're doing this. Our first constitutional task is to defend our kingdom and the alliance. That's why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u220	That's not what the Minister's doing at all. The Minister isn't answering my question either. It is true that, because NATO and the United States are asking this question, the Minister is now suggesting that because it is not going to be very concrete; that is what we are going to talk about later: that there are billions to go to new weapons systems? It is true that, because the tensions between the United States and the Russians are mounting, they want to cancel the INF Convention and that the Netherlands is behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u221	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u222	It is true that over the last seventeen years the contribution to the permanent war in all kinds of countries, also because the US and NATO asked for it, has not made us safer. So can the Minister explain to me once again how this militarisation and armament, which are not necessary if you look purely at military capabilities, would also make Russia, myself, the Netherlands and Europe safer? I do not think that is the case. I would very much like a reflection from this Minister. And where's the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u223	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u224	How much more billion and at what cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u225	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u226	Mrs Karabulut cannot deny that we are part of an alliance in which we agree together for our defence and in which we must also be able to rely on each other. Of course, we must always, always, prevent a situation from escalating, but in the first instance, of course, this alliance was agreed 70 years ago to take care of our own security and to settle it with each other. We have said to each other that, especially in the European context, we are now not sufficiently tailored to our task. We have not invested enough with each other; that was agreed in Wales in 2014 by the Heads of Government. We're at the bottom of the contribution. If you have a credible alliance, you also have to stick to the agreements you made. Mrs Karabulut asks whether I should also stress the dialogue in order to achieve disarmament. Of course we do. We also see the importance of dialogue with Russia. Mr Blok and I are constantly working on this in the NATO context, but I believe that a credible NATO relationship with Russia is a credible deterrent on the one hand and a dialogue on the other. If you look at what the Russians are building at the border, there have been public briefings about this. These are the choices made by the cabinet, by the way, on the basis of the questions that NATO has asked us and on which we all agree in NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u227	Finalizing, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u228	What do we all agree on in NATO? This cabinet, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence say time and time again that it is up to them to start doing it is to the security of the Netherlands and then to the security of Europe and then to global security. I note that the strategy of the last few decades has not worked. When NATO takes decisions, for example to terminate the INF Convention because President Trump wants it because of accusations rather than de-escalation, I note that our cabinet does not contradict that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u229	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u230	...while a new nuclear arms race indeed goes back to the past and doesn't make it safer for us. I note that this Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are running after the US and NATO in the war in Afghanistan, which makes the Netherlands no safer and neither does Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u231	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u232	My question to the Minister is: doesn't she really see that? If she says she wants to invest additional billions in the Spring Paper in even more weapons systems, I ask: at the cost of what and how many billion more? Can she make that concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u233	I do not share the observations made by Mrs Karabulut, because some of them were simply not right. It may take too long to talk about this now, Mrs Karabulut, but what you are saying about NATO and INF is simply not right. You also raised a number of other issues, for example the pursuit of the Americans in Afghanistan. That's really not right. We have had regular debates about this in this Chamber. That you do not support that, fine, but you should not say that we have different reasons than we have written down in our Article 100 letters. I'd like to make that point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u234	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u235	So I do not share your observations, Mrs Karabulut. I believe that there is an intrinsic reason for our country to invest in our own security. And we'll make it safer. Because if you disarm one-sidedly, that's the end of it. The world won't be safer either, Mrs Karabulut. You shouldn't caricature that discussion. We are in favour of a credible deterrent. A credible deterrent also means investing in a number of functions that ultimately allow you to have a conversation with the Russians to take a step further. That's not my wallet, by the way. This is about investing in something that leads to credible deterrents and which NATO has asked us questions about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u236	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u237	By the way, we agree on that. For I would like to take up Mrs Karabulut's point that NATO does not agree on this. There are just lists of abilities made. They have been established and this cabinet has chosen five of them. We have already correctly reported this in our budget debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u238	Thank you. We're going to see Mr. Van Ojik. No, Mrs Karabulut, I have heard you three times in this interruption. Mr Van Ojik. No, no, no, no, no, Mrs. Karabulut, it's really gonna be night work without your fourth interruption. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u239	I hope not, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u240	No, neither do I, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u241	The Minister has outlined the procedure and also the agreements made in NATO. I just want to get back to that. To be honest, I understand perfectly well that the credible national plan had to be in NATO by the end of the year. I'd have gotten that. What I do not understand, however, is that, in that plan, we ourselves force ourselves to say very quickly: we are going to join the Spring Paper, even before we have had any re-examination debate, again making all kinds of commitments. That's two different things. The Netherlands has now fulfilled its agreement in NATO, namely to have a credible national plan by 31 December. But why then so hasty to say that we are already going to spend a lot of extra money on the Spring Paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u242	As you know, in order for this plan to be credible, the cabinet has said that we are choosing this five capacity in which we are going to invest, and we will take a step in that direction. One of the points is that it is also about Burden Sharing, as Mr Van Ojik knows as well as I do. It is about cash, capacity and commitment in the NATO context. As a country, we must also set out a path for how we intend to achieve this. As a cabinet, we think it is necessary to take an extra step in the Spring paper, and we have indicated this in the letter, in order to add credibility. We have done so in order to go through an orderly process, which is also a good thing to say. We did not want to come up with something else right after the budget debate, where we spoke with each other. So it's an orderly budget process. Unfortunately, this does not entirely follow NATO planning, but it is an orderly process that we, like the Netherlands, have. The first possibility to change is, as Mr Van Ojik knows, with the Spring Paper, and that is where the Cabinet intends to take that additional step, because we are not yet there to set these five priorities, even though NATO believes that this is important. We really need to do more. In order to make it credible, additional investments are needed, which are also needed to work on staff, real estate etc.; I will come back to those questions later. In the end, we must become stronger together, be more employable and be able to last longer, and that means that there will simply have to be more money for defence, as has been said from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u243	The cabinet has always said to the Chamber that we will have a review of our defence strategy by 2020, and in that context we will see how we can work towards achieving the NATO standard. What would have been against just putting that in the national plan? Now it is suddenly brought forward for a year without debate and it is improperly, I would say, brought under the Spring Note. The Spring paper is really intended to correct unforeseen events that have taken place in recent months in the budget. It has always been said to the Chamber that in 2020, after a substantive, strategic discussion, we are going to do so in an orderly manner. I would have found that much more credible, to talk about a credible national plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u244	Mr Van Ojik mentioned what we had written in the Defence Memorandum and in the BuHa-OS note, but I therefore outlined the process at the beginning of this meeting very nicely. The NATO summit said that we should submit a credible plan by 31 December. That is why we have accelerated that step. We had to submit a credible plan. This fits within what we wrote in the Defence Note. Of course, we will also review in 2020. We're starting that process, but what we've done here fits in with the choices we've made. I have already explained this in the budget debate. I also said that the next thing we would do was work on more power. I have also mentioned the five capacities that we are discussing today and which have been written down in the letter. These are points that NATO is asking of us and which we also believe fit what we need to do: to move forward faster, better and longer. We also discussed: okay, what is that, how does it go, when you look at impact force, how do we look at that? At that time we said that these things are important and that we, as the Netherlands, are also good at them, for example the cyber side. We're good at doing something with that, too, so that's what we're doing. So thinking doesn't just stand still until a certain time, but it fits in the path that we as the Netherlands just go. It also fits in with what we wrote in the Defence Note. We will look again at the recalibrate to see if an extra step needs to be taken, but it does not deviate at all from the path we have walked so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u245	Thank you. I point out that I just said that I hope it doesn't turn out to be night work. It helps if we ask short questions and give short answers. That would be appreciated. Mr Van Ojik is going to prove that he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u246	Mr. Chairman. It does differ, because otherwise there was no need for an additional Spring note to add to the budget. It is precisely because it deviates from the path that the cabinet has so far followed that we are now being asked to agree to additional expenditure in the Spring paper. It is therefore a deviation from what the cabinet wants, because otherwise it would not have been necessary at all in the spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u247	Indeed, the current investments of the coalition agreement are aimed at sustainably maintaining the armed forces. Of course, we talked about that. But we see around us that the world is changing. An additional agreement was reached between the Heads of Government in July. We need to make a plan. This is about different things. It's about cash, about the percentage, about the capacities. The cabinet made a choice. But then you also have to show how you're going to fund it. And then it's about commitment. In my opinion, this national plan has taken a first step in the right direction to prioritize these five capacities, in order to deal with the threat. As I said, this is all about battlepower to deal with threats. It's capacity that NATO is asking for. We must therefore show how we want to finance it. That is what we are taking a first step towards the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u248	A short question about this relationship between the national plan at the end of last year and the envisaged re-evaluation that will take place in 2020. I also asked: how do the two relate to each other? The Minister said something about this, but I wonder how much room there will be for that re-examination later. To put it bluntly, what is to be re-evaluated when we take this step, including financially? It is already taking a great deal of effort to reach agreement in the Cabinet on the financial consequences of the national plan. If next year's review has even more financial consequences, how much room does it have? It's gonna be hard to say anything about that now, but I'm kind of looking for this. Is there anything to review, or are we actually doing nothing more or less than taking steps in the framework of the NATO agreements, and is that the re-examination?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u249	Anyway, we have to think long ways. That's what we wrote down in the Defence Note. Look, defense is always something of long-term thinking. In fact, we indicated in the Defence Paper that we would re-evaluate by 2020. And we're starting the process now. We will involve the Chamber, as agreed here in your Chamber, and as we have done in making the Defence Note. And that involves the views of the army, which was also Mr Kerstens' question. That vision is just in line with the Defence Note. The Defence Note was first, then the Army's vision. The ambitions and goals contained therein are also in line with this. So it is actually a further development of the frameworks. We've put the frameworks in the Defence Note, and they're being worked out. Honestly, I'm glad the Army did. You may have been somewhat surprised, but the army has given all sorts of reports about it. You're invited to the trial. And that is what we have to do, because that safety environment is constantly changing; that is what we see. As a DOD, we need to be able to anticipate that again. So the thinking will never stop. This means that we are really going to work out the long lines to the future in the recalibrate. That's the step we're taking. That is a first investment, but we also need to indicate how we are going to make these follow-up investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u250	I understand all that, and I agree with most of it. But for my clarity, this. I was just asking what is left to recalibrate if we just take the steps or steps we have taken in NATO every time. But for my insight: I am not going to pin the Minister on it by 2020, but can she just mention something that might emerge in that review, which is something other than the steps we are now taking in the context of NATO agreements? I just want to get a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u251	Well, when I look at how we stand here and how we stood here a little over a year ago, the world's security environment has changed. That's what we're gonna look at. We are going to see how we can respond even better to the threats that exist, but we are also going to see what is needed in the context of maintaining and restoring the armed forces. So it is not just the long lines within the framework of NATO. In any case, you have to think long-term in order to recover. At that point, I did agree with you. I said at the beginning of my period that the 1.5 billion really is just a good start, you as a Defense Department want to be well tailored to your tasks, with good staff and with all kinds of other things that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u252	Thank you for the Minister's explanation of the confusion that, despite the fact that there was something else in the Defence Memorandum, an additional plan has been drawn up. One thing's not clear to me. I'm just asking the question; I won't have to do it later. You have identified five priorities. Of those five priorities, you can find four in the Defence Note. One priority not: the F-35 fighters. I can't relate it to what was agreed in the Defense Note. So my question is whether you would perhaps like to explain again how I should put it in there. What goes with this is whether this is what NATO specifically asked the Netherlands. Or did NATO provide a list of 50 aspects from which the Netherlands finally chose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u253	When it comes to what we wrote in the Defence Note, we did pay attention to the fact that the F-35 as an aircraft is a very new weapon, and that it is necessary to work in conjunction with the pilot. That is a misunderstanding every time: when we invest in material, people always belong to it. I would like to say this in general in the direction of the Chamber. A plane without a pilot is just nothing. Then he's in the hangar. So there's definitely people in there. They must be trained. NATO is asking us for much more capacity, but this cabinet has chosen these five priorities because we are good at this. You know we were the only ones who could do precision bombings with F-16s over Syria. We've talked about that on a regular basis. So this is a capacity that NATO is asking of us. NATO is asking us to invest heavily in this. But NATO is asking us for other things as well. Let me mention some of them. The cabinet has chosen these five. NATO, for example, also calls for additional mine sweepers, the reinforcement of infantry brigades, more supply and border transport capacity, maritime UAVs, a headquarters for special units at operational level, medical support, even more supply ships, we have already invested in ammunition expansion, etc. This cabinet has chosen to invest in these five capacities. That's clear. We all agree on that. That's what we put in here. I think NATO is happy with that in itself. Well, that makes sense, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u254	I have a bit of a dilemma that I just don't get an answer to my question. If it's necessary to have more F-35s, then so be it. But I'd have to have an argument. Because it's not in the Defence Note. You can find the other four priorities. All the way back there is a whole zipper with things that require all the extra investment. But I just don't get an answer to the question why these F-35s are needed. Thirty-seven are coming. We have hundreds of vacancies. We may not have kites to man all those extra F-35s. I very much hope that the Minister will give a better answer to the AO we are still getting. The same is true of the Army. It must not be the case that the army acts autonomously and that you say: well, it came as a bit of a surprise but I do recognize myself in it. I don't recognize anything from that Army note in the Defence Note. It's about autonomous weapons systems. It concerns the possibility of solving recruitment problems with autonomous weapons systems. None of that's in there. I sincerely hope that you will be able to clarify this further. You can do that later, in a letter. I just want to be able to explain. The answer you are giving does not give me the opportunity to give the right answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u255	Not everything's in the Defense Note. What we're doing here is investing extra. That is also the question of NATO. We have chosen to invest extra, including in the F-35. By the way, I do not recognize that we would not be able to find those pilots, because we can certainly find them. So we are investing extra in capabilities that NATO is asking of us. That's what we do here. The cabinet has chosen to do so as a priority. I didn't say that note from the Army came as a surprise. I didn't say that. I said that Mr Kerstens' comment came as a bit of a surprise, because the memorandum of the army remained within the framework of the Defence Memorandum agreements. It is true that the army itself must also think about the impact they themselves want to give on what it says. That's what I said, but I didn't say it was a surprise. So I'd like to take that away. These are additional capacities and additional investments that NATO is asking us to work towards increasing to that 2%. We therefore need to invest more in capacities which we consider important and which are also considered important in a European context. The F-35 is considered extremely important by NATO and by Europe. It will also benefit us a great deal as a country. The cabinet has said that this is the priority we choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u256	Very good. Mrs. Belhaj, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u257	That wasn't my question. NATO has provided a whole list on the basis of which you could make choices. You could have made other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u258	The Minister could have made other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u259	Indeed, Mr President, the Minister could have made other choices. She didn't. So once again, my request for a better explanation of that direction of treatment. By the way, that military record came out of the blue. We are in the process of putting forward a bit of an integral vision here, and also to ensure that the investments are done properly and not to let every armored part of the force put forward a different hobby per period. So I interpret your remark as a surprise. If you're not surprised, I hope you'd like to explain to the Chamber how that Army Note relates to the Defence Note. The things I see in it, I don't see in the Defense Note. These are very concrete solutions for the armed forces, the basis on order et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u260	Of course, this debate is not about the Defence Note. This debate is about the follow-up and the shortcomings that NATO has seen in the Netherlands about a credible NATO plan. I have just listed a whole list of what we intend to do about it. By the way, we have always made this clear to you, because that has simply been established and is also part of the NATO documents that your Chamber always receives. We choose these points because we are good at them and because we think they are important in the tasks we want to carry out. That's what this cabinet did. So you need to see it as a follow-up to the Defense Note. I don't know what you're saying about the army. For example, we recently discussed the debate on the Adaptive Armed Forces, and then we did talk about how we look at cooperation in the future and at the army in the future. I would be happy to help you to repeat how I think the army vision fits in with the vision we have indicated. I think it's more important that we watch with each other, including the Air Force, the Navy and all other Defense components, how we work on the recalibrate of the Defense Note. But if I have to help you do that, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u261	It's a pleasure for you. I suggest that the Minister resumes her own story, so that we have now completed this interrupting round. I also want to give her the opportunity to do her own story. You know you've interrupted a lot, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u262	I won't be needing a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u263	Ah, great, Mrs. Karabulut says not to do a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u264	I think if we can ask some questions now, I won't have that need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u265	Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u266	Let's talk about the F-35. The decision that was or is being taken is that a maximum of 37 aircraft will be purchased for 4.5 billion. Does this letter from the Minister mean that there will be a new decision, with at least more equipment being purchased? And will there then be more funding for this in the Spring paper? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u267	It is clear that the cabinet opts for additional F-35s and that therefore there should be room for that. NATO's demand is an extra squadron. That is no secret, because we have told it transparently and publicly. We are talking about 15 additional aircraft. That does not mean that we will finance this immediately, but that is the question before us. And we will work on that in the long-term approach. That's what we do. So that certainly means that there will be more F-35s; sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u268	I find it very complicated. I know what NATO is and, above all, what NATO wants. But I am here in a debate with our Secretary of Defense, who is taking part in NATO meetings. She's not in the service of NATO. So I'm trying to focus here at what point we'll get a new decision on purchasing more F-35s. Because the Minister can convey it, but there is also a Dutch parliament that has to decide on it. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u269	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u270	And two. There's another wish list for a long time. Does this mean that, in a few months' time, in the Spring Paper, one or more billion more will indeed be allocated to defence by this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u271	You know that the discussion about the Spring Note is just about to take place. That is also very clear in the letter: the cabinet intends to take an extra step. You can read it, but I'd like to read it to you if you'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u272	No! I know the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u273	You have seen this as part of the trade-offs for the Spring Note. This means, of course, that we want to invest more in terms of the priorities we have set out, and not in all the other priorities, which I have just listed in the direction of Mrs Belhaj. These are the choices this cabinet has made when it comes to investing. And you have to wait and see the process, just as you know that the process has to wait for all kinds of other things, because that is the way the budget is going in the Netherlands. You can then assess that. And of course that goes neatly through the agreements we have with the Chamber. It goes this way. That might come in a letter, and then it goes neatly through the Defense Material Plan et cetera. Then it comes to you. Or perhaps it goes through the budget fund, which another Member of Parliament has also asked for. That's how it can be arranged in the end. So that's what we're gonna do. And I very much hope that this budget fund will be there so soon that we can show it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u274	Clear. Finalizing, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u275	Rounding up. I just need to be properly informed as a representative of the people. And if I am confronted with teletext reports that there are billions more going to defence, possibly later on in the Spring Paper, then I want a clear answer from the Minister. She gave it to me. I conclude that there at D66, and therefore at a part of the coalition, they are not necessarily eager, because they lack a vision. I also conclude that the Secretary of Defense wants to raise billions more. And I'm very curious to know where she's going to get that from and who's going to pay the price for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u276	I don't know what you heard, Mr. Chairman, but I didn't hear myself say "billion more." So that's the point I want to make anyway. I'm going to take a quick look at the questions, because I just wanted to go and see the questioners, if that's all right with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u277	It's okay to go to the end of your term, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u278	I'd like to do the same. I assume for a moment that we have now dealt with the general questions, the questions about how I look at that national plan and how that fits in with that vision. Then Mr. Kerstens of the PvdA, and Mrs. Karabulut, by the way, would have asked: how does the Minister look at President Trump, who keeps saying he's leaving NATO? I'm just paraphrasing it a little bit. I believe that the reports from the US on President Trump's statements on NATO, as well as on Syria and Afghanistan, which we have also discussed recently in this Chamber, cause uncertainty. I'm certainly not denying that. I would like to stress the importance of mutual trust here in this Chamber. That's why you're in an alliance with each other. You also need to know what to expect from each other in an alliance. You should be able to be sure of that. I think that is in our common interest, and it is certainly in the interest of a small country like the Netherlands. I said at the beginning of my story that NATO's power has always been in it that we radiate unity with each other and that we have formulated common values, which we also want to guard with each other and to set limits to. I really think that's been the most important weapon of the alliance for 70 years now. As far as I am concerned, this is still the cornerstone of our security policy. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the partnership with the US is also crucial for the Netherlands. Mr. Kerstens had another question about cyber. We recently had a debate on the Defense Cyber Strategy. Mr Kerstens was also present. I think Mr Kerstens is right that the military threats are changing. They've become more complex. It is no longer just about conventional threats to Navy, Army and Air Force, but cyber is gaining in importance. This has also been said by more Members of the Chamber. That's what we worked out in the Defense Cyber Strategy. We talked about that. I have heard that the Chamber feels differently about the observation that the threat is not theoretical, but I do think that we have been able to see that from what has happened on Dutch territory around the OPCW. I was glad that Mr Kerstens saw and supported this. So that means that we also have to look differently at the armed forces. We are indeed investing in this, as was also the case in that debate. I have just answered Mrs Karabulut's question about the F-35 in the case of interruption. It also asked when the Chamber would receive information on the budget fund. We will try to inform your Chamber in the first half of 2019 about the contours of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund, as it is called, including a more detailed description of the expenditure that will be covered by that Fund. In addition, we will outline the timetable. I really hope to be able to make as much speed as possible, but you will also realise that the establishment of such a fund really means something for our operations and for the whole internal control and control. So it's gonna take some time. But I think the sooner the fund is introduced, the better. But it's a legislative process. We always need each other for that. Mr Öztürk, Mr Kerstens and Mr Beertema asked about the creation of a European army. That's what I've been clasp-and-ready about. The Dutch cabinet is not for a European army. In fact, we have had a whole debate on this. The arguments put forward by Mr Beertema are also my arguments. Nor should we have the illusion that the EU can take over the role of NATO. Those were the points which, I believe, Mr Bosman made at the time. Mrs Bruins Slot also said hers about the collective defence of the European alliance. For the cabinet, NATO is still the cornerstone of the whole security policy. Let me just say once more: NATO does not have its own army either. It's good to say that. It is also true that we are always discussing the commitment of our men and women in an orderly manner with the Chamber. I am convinced that the intensification of European military cooperation contributes to a better security context. And that we invest in it, there is no misunderstanding. That's why I'm going to Bucharest next week. Next Thursday, we will be preparing this with the Chamber, so we will undoubtedly be able to discuss this point further. At the request of the Chamber, I am always referring to the fact that a strong EU will benefit the functioning of NATO. I know that Mr Stoltenberg will also be present in Bucharest, just as Mrs Mogherini is always present at the NATO meeting today. The Netherlands has indeed proposed to be a kind of bridge builder between the EU and NATO. We are a trustworthy NATO member of the Union, which we are also showing with this plan, but of course we are also a founding father of the EU. I think it is important that we invest in safety there too. Then there is Mr Van Ojik's question. I didn't figure out how many billions more were needed for six years. Probably hundreds of them. I do know that if the Netherlands were to spend 2%, it would require about 6 to 7 billion. Of course, that is not the issue; there is no misunderstanding about it. It is okay, because of course I have heard Mr Baudet. For us, looking at what we have laid down, the NATO capacity objectives are, of course, leading. I think I've said enough about the broader plan. In the direction of Mr Van Ojik, I would like to say once again that these five priorities in the national plan are therefore already a choice of the Netherlands, because NATO is asking for much more. In the context of NATO's defence planning process, countries are allocated a large number, sometimes dozens, of capacity targets. These are derived from NATO's military needs, which have been identified by the Heads of Government. I would like to point out that this was established in July. We therefore agree on the capacities to be shared. In the review of the Defence Note in 2020, we will also further develop the capacity targets we have now chosen. That's the idea. We are also going to see how we will put that away in the future, in the long lines. When I look at that, I think we are making a sharp choice. Mrs Belhaj asked how there is no collective agreement yet. I am very aware that this is not on the agenda, but I will answer the question anyway. I will try to do so as briefly as possible. On 4 October 2018, the outcome of the negotiations was rejected by the members of the unions. So there was a negotiating agreement, I'm just saying for the sake of clarity. We have always stressed that we wanted to get back together with the unions as soon as possible. As you know, the Secretary of State is primarily responsible for this. I think it is very nice that, despite the suspension of the consultation on 11 January, we have agreed with the unions on the distribution of the pension premium for military personnel in 2019. You've been briefed on that. We have also invited the unions to a sector consultation on defence, which will also take place next week. The unions have responded positively to this. With all those who have said something about this, I sincerely hope that this will lead to something as soon as possible. I fully agree with everyone in the Chamber that our men and women, who are always at risk for their own lives, are entitled to a good collective agreement. That is why we have carried out the motion tabled with love, in order to give our staff an end-of-year allowance or Christmas gratification whatever you want to call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u279	The reason we are also discussing this today is that we are also talking about other important investments. The people have been waiting since 2017, and now since 2018, for those fine words from the Defence Note to be expressed. The Minister says that there was some sort of agreement on 4 October, but apparently it was not, because there is nothing there. I am in favour of a high degree of urgency, the same urgency that has resulted in five priorities for additional equipment being purchased for the staff. I don't know what's wrong with it. That is why I repeat my suggestion: otherwise arrange a mediator, but make it work as soon as possible, because nobody gets happy about this. The minister does all kinds of things to get the armed forces in order, and the defense does all kinds of things, but people end up looking at their paychecks and thinking, "How can it take so long?" When will we get the recognition we need? If the Minister does not do it because the people deserve it, then she must do it because otherwise the armed forces will run against the ten thousand vacancies, so that we instantly no longer have a military force at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u280	There is also something to be said about the number of vacancies, because as many as go over the table, they are not, but I agree with Mrs Belhaj that our men and women deserve a good salary and also a good pension scheme. There was a negotiation result. The unions and the Defense Department agreed on that. By the way, there was a misunderstanding in 2017 which is a collective agreement. It ran for one year and it ended in October. There is still no new collective agreement, but I fully agree with Mrs Belhaj that our men do deserve it. We talked about it in the budget. That is why we have all the money we could make available to the staff, within the margins available to us at the state level, we are dealing with a number of agreements on this subject. We also used our own money for our staff. We'll start again next week. I sat down with the Secretary of State myself with the unions. Fortunately, we now have an agreement on the pension contribution. That is important, because otherwise the paycheck would have looked much worse. The unions have, in part, chosen to conduct proceedings against us. Of course, you can't negotiate. I'm glad we're back on the table now. The sooner we get out, the better. There will also be an informal inventory of what the points are. Then we can formally see how we can work on it. If a mediator is useful, I have already discussed it with the President of the Union, and we will not fail to do so, but it does not seem necessary at the moment, because we are going to be sitting around the table next week. I sincerely hope that we will get there as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u281	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u282	Thank you. That sounds positive. Can you tell me what "quick" is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u283	Can the Minister state...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u284	Can the Minister indicate what "quick" is, because "quick" can also be October next year. It's important that people know what they're up to. Is it another month, it's two months? Should the money for collective bargaining be included in the Spring Note? What are we supposed to think about? Because people have been waiting so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u285	I don't know, but I really hope it's settled in one, two months. However, it is a process that we follow together. It's not just the employer. Mrs. Belhaj knows that. It now seems as if it is one-sided with us, but it is not. I therefore hope that over the heads of the Members of Parliament there will be a hearing from the unions and that they will have heard the appeal from the Chamber. In the end, it is important that we arrive at a result together as soon as possible. We had a result at first, both on working conditions and on pensions, but that was ultimately rejected by the grassroots. We're starting it again now, because fortunately we have an appointment about the pension premium. As far as I am concerned, we are doing it as quickly as possible, and if it leads to a different use of resources, then we must look at it. We look very seriously at the process, but we have always done so. I sincerely hope that the unions will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u286	Can we get to the second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u287	As far as I'm concerned, yes. If you find that all questions have been answered... Then let's leave all the questions about GrIT, Legionella et cetera? No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u288	If they're very persistent, maybe they can be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u289	Well, I'd like to say that we've already sent letters to the Chamber about some of those things. The same applies to GrIT and the points raised by Mr Baudet. That's what the Chamber just got letters about. I would like Mr Baudet to take another look at that. There has also been a plenary debate on this subject. If I am not mistaken, Mr Baudet was not present. The same applies to the point of winter clothing. About GrIT, the Chamber gets a report twice a year. The next consultation on this subject is scheduled for May. Perhaps it is a good thing that, if it is considered important by the Chamber, Members will be present at the debates. Something similar applies to the points made about the legionella and the barracks. Of that, I can say that we have actively picked it up, that there are expert teams that map all of that. We're in consultation with the National Real Estate Company about it. We have made extra money available for it, and that money is also being used. The same applies to filling vacancies. The numbers that go over the table here increased by the minute. It's not like we have tens of thousands of vacancies now. At the end of this year we had 5,600 vacancies. I would like to say that over the past year we have managed very well to organise the recruitment. We've recruited more people than ever expected. The Chamber has also received reports on this. In the normal P-conversations, we can go into that. I think the rest has been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u290	That's great. It's highly appreciated. I see that there is a need for a second term. I give the floor to the applicant, Mr Kerstens, who has indicated that it will be a brief contribution. I'd like to hold him to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Short is, of course, a very relative concept. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I thought it was an enlightening debate, even when it came to the positions of some other parties. The Minister has pointed out a number of times the importance of an orderly process, an orderly procedure towards the rethinking of the vision of the military force that is on the agenda for 2020. The Minister then began to do so, and I think that it was necessary to outline in detail what was "even" going through it: the national plan in the framework of the NATO agreements. That might cost a lot of money. There's still discussion in the cabinet. I was particularly concerned at the fact that, from now on, we should agree on this orderly procedure. The Minister would help me if she outlined the timeline, if she outlined the process of when the Chamber could face something, other than just sometime in 2020 the outcome of all the thinking within the Defence Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u292	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut still wants a second term. It's a good deal to make with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u293	As you always look forward to it, Mr President, I will be very brief for you today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u294	That's what makes my life a real party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u295	Mr. Chairman. Just before Christmas, Teletext announced that the Secretary of Defense, together with NATO, is going to invest billions more in new weapons systems. Today it becomes clear that opinions on this matter are divided into the coalition. Today it remains unclear what safety objective this serves. It has become clear to me that this minister likes to sign for missions from NATO and the United States and that the basis for this is flawed. We must wait and see what proposals it proposes, how much billion it costs and, above all, at the expense of which it will have to go. Mr. Chairman. I think it's a very messy process. I also find it undesirable in substance. I have not heard in any way from the Minister of Defence about the diplomatic role she thinks she can play in de-escalation, in the tensions, in order to prevent a new cold war and also to prevent a new arms race in Europe because the Americans are about to denounce the INF Treaty, which has brought us a great deal of security. I'm worried about that. We will be discussing this in detail in the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u296	Thank you. Mr Öztürk in second term? That is not the case. Then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u297	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I have two comments to make. The first one is about the trial. I understand very well that this national plan had to be there before the end of the year, but I still do not understand why the next few months should be rushed by new expenditure above 1.5 billion, as agreed in the government agreement, perhaps in the spring note. It would really be a good thing if my group were to be in a position to hold a debate on the possible revision of the Defence Note before new major expenditures on new additional defence equipment are made. I can table a motion on that, but I can just say that now. We will indeed return to that on many occasions. My second comment. The Minister said: I do not know exactly how much money it is all about. The point that I wanted to make in the first term was that if you put into effect such a process where so many extra billions are spent on weapons in the coming years, that in itself can become a factor that will increase the tensions that you want to reduce. I asked for a response to that. I understand that this is a little beyond the scope of this debate, but it might be possible to do so in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u298	Thank you. Then Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the many questions. I think it is good that you have clarified today how it was possible that the Defence Memorandum originally said 'if we have to make some further agreements within NATO, we will do so in the review note' and that you, forced by the constellation, have had to do so earlier. I hope that you are also sensitive to the words we have said, namely that if you have not established a common vision, something can happen every time that will lead to new strategies or new investments. As long as it's money, it's fine. But at the finish line it may be just that you have a mess in the sense that that is not the intention and that all the different military parts want to do the right thing, but that eventually it doesn't fit together anymore. I think that the armed forces are too small to afford it, and above all that the threats are too great. I thought it was relevant to include the vacancies, but I suddenly realized that I might use the wrong term. You do have the FTEs and you have the vacancies. My question is: how much FTE is not currently manned by people, but should actually be manned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u300	Thank you. Mrs Bruins Slot waived her speaking time and Mr Baudet did the same. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bertema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u301	Mr. Chairman. My distrust of the formation of the EU army has certainly not been removed, especially since the renewed friendship agreement between France and Germany, just concluded in Aachen, places a great deal of emphasis on defence and security. Macron has said on this point: Germany and France must show the way in this world and in this Europe, by which he means the EU. Merkel said that the Treaty could contribute to the creation of a European army. She talked about a common military culture and arms industry. Well, that's that flight forward I just talked about. In my opinion, it has long since ceased to be about the EU as an alliance of equal members. Here the ownership of the EU is explicitly placed in Merkel's lap. Macron himself transfers the sovereignty of his own country, la gloire de la France, to Mrs Merkel, the champion of open borders, of "wir purchase tie." Does the Minister understand our distrust of all the politicians who are now telling us that the EU army is not coming? We see as part of the plan that both countries will assist each other if one of them is attacked. I read there: outside NATO. Already we see armoured cars with EU emblem that are being used against unarmed citizens with yellow hoists in France. We see the deployment of EUROGENDFOR, a bit of a mysterious EU army that is also being deployed regularly. That nourishes the distrust. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has presented far-reaching EU defence plans;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is a sovereign state and as such should direct its military forces;]] [[calls on the Government to reject these EU defence plans and every step towards an EU army, including everything related to the Aachen Convention;]] [[calls on the Government not to make any Dutch contribution to future foreign missions, but instead to focus on the protection of our national territory and the surveillance of our national borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beertema and Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33763-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u302	So I don't have that one motion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u303	Then it's just judgment room. I'll suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u304	The Minister has the floor to answer the last few questions and comment on one motion. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kerstens thanked me for clarifying the procedure. I would like to say that, in my opinion, the cabinet has always conducted an orderly procedure. In everything that has been directed towards your Chamber about the NATO meetings, the process has always been outlined and the choices have been explained. That's why I started my story with that in the first term. I have promised the Chamber an orderly process for the follow-up, and of course there will be. I cannot tell you what this timeline will look like at the moment, because we are going first to the NATO meeting where these plans are discussed. That is what we are preparing with your Chamber. Then I'll inform you. In the course of the budgetary procedure, I had already promised the Chamber that it would agree on a proper process on the revision of the Defence Note. So I'm just sticking to the deal I made, which will also involve your Chamber. I do not share Mrs Karabulut's analysis, but it is too far-reaching to discuss it in the second term. The only thing I want to say to her is that she said right now what she didn't say right before. She just said in her interruption in my direction that NATO had cancelled the INF treaty. That was by no means correct. Now she said it correctly: the US did it to Russia. I'd like to have said that again. I would also like to make it clear to her that we are members of an alliance. That's gonna take a little bit of each other. That requires reliability, which requires that we share well with each other what we want in the future, which requires that we talk about the values we share. That, in my opinion, has brought us a lot of good in those 70 years. I say to Mr Van Ojik about the process: the priorities set out in the national plan fit in with the lines set out in the current Defence Note. I answered that, too. Moreover, the Defence Note already states that a possible follow-up step could be taken in this cabinet period. In the debate, it seemed as if it was not, but there is no misunderstanding as to whether that is also stated in the Defence Note and that some of the review was also in favour of it. However, we have made it clear that, in the light of NATO's capacity objectives, we could also come to a review. So I'm just gonna refer you to that. The process to the Spring Note is simply an orderly financial process that we conduct together in the Netherlands. But, of course, it is also about the credibility of the investment steps we are taking ourselves. Because that is partly part of what NATO is asking for, namely that it should be a credible plan. I would like to say the following about the figures on staff shortages and full-time equivalents, which Mrs Belhaj quoted. As of 1 July 2018, the staff deficit would be 4,303 full-time equivalents. This is because people have already been hired to fill the vacant functions in the long term. So that's the number we're talking about. This concerns the Secretary of State's portfolio. I will see to it that, in the normal reports she gives, she also gives you the right figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u306	You indicate how many full-time equivalents would be open and then you say: plus the completion of. But then you will probably count the many people who are still in training as filled vacancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u307	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u308	But you still don't know if they're gonna be finally adopted after their education. You've got some FTEs. I just want to know how much of that is open. So I don't mean the people in training. So I mean everything, and not that the commander says, "I want to hire so many people." You do not have to do that now, perhaps not by July, but I do want to know the situation as of 1 January. That's where I get those numbers. I have the feeling that they are many times higher than we think they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u309	I have a feeling it was a little over 5,000, but I'll get back to you and let your room know. Then there's the motion, Mr. Chairman. I can, for a large part, be positive about the considerations because, as I have said, we are indeed a sovereign state and we ought to steer where our forces are deployed. In this sense, the Dutch cabinet is not for a European army. But the operative part goes far too far for the cabinet, namely: no Dutch contribution to any future foreign mission. I just can't, so I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u310	I would be happy to delete the second request, the second operative part. Then what is the Minister's appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u311	I've already moved a few things into the Defense Note. Then it still doesn't recommend it, because you say: to focus also... However, I am in favour of focusing on protecting national territory and monitoring national borders. That is our first constitutional task. That's clear. In the Defence Paper, we have already moved on to that first constitutional task....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But we cannot focus on that alone; we must always keep our eyes and ears open. So I keep dissuading her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u312	But then the Minister doesn't understand me. If I delete that whole second request, there is only one operative part left, and that is: calls on the government to reject these EU defence plans and every step towards an EU army.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u313	Oh, you're deleting the second request altogether!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u314	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u315	You want to delete the second operative part. Yeah, it's two requests. I see now that there are two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u316	Mr. Beertema, there's some uncertainty in the Chamber about your motion. You're trying to get something out of it. So what's left, just for clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u317	It's one motion, Mr. Chairman, with two requests. I would like to delete the last request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u318	What's left?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u319	Then the request remains: the government requests that these EU defence plans and every step towards an EU army be rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u320	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u321	I cannot live with that because the High Commissioner's EU defence plans are really something else. Now I see what you're doing: you've combined it too. The Dutch cabinet is not for an EU army. That's clip-and-clip; there's no misunderstanding about that. But we are in favour of cooperation at European level, for making good choices with each other. This is an important part of the EU defence plans, which we are talking about together, as early as next week in Bucharest. So even then, I can't live with it. Then so much should be removed from this motion that, I think, it is no longer a motion. But we can continue to talk about this in the debate for the RBZ preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u322	So much would be removed from the motion that only the name Beertema remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u323	Finally, Mr. Chairman. I think you have a lot to discuss in Bucharest about this renewed Aachen friendship agreement, where both Macron and Merkel make extremely far-reaching statements about cooperation between France and Germany, even helping each other if they are attacked. That is really outside NATO; that is how I read it. You're waving it away now with: well, we'll see about that. But this is very far-reaching. This Aachen Treaty puts a bomb under all the EU's own commitments. It is not for nothing that people there are extremely upset about what happened there. You do not want to hear anything about this leading position that France and Germany, but especially Germany, are assuming. You don't want to appreciate it. What you are going to talk about in Bucharest is therefore a complete mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u324	Mr. Chairman. I gave an assessment of this motion, which does not state this. I will, of course, read the bilateral agreement between Germany and France concluded today, because it will undoubtedly be discussed in Bucharest, even if only the indications given. I have already stated on behalf of your Chamber that the Netherlands is not for a European army, but for European defence cooperation. That statement also remains valid in Bucharest. You can be sure that I will say that quite clearly there, even in the direction of Germany and France. They know that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u325	Clear, so far. So your motion remains unchanged, huh, Mr. Beertema? That's what I'm establishing. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-25.u326	So much for this debate. I thank the Minister for being here today. The same applies to the attendees and the participants. On Tuesday we shall vote on the Bertema motion. I'll suspend until 8:15, and then we'll talk about the Stint.
