ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 34861, Rules implementing Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of passenger personal data (PNR) for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime (Official Journal of the European Union 2016, L 119). This law is abbreviated: the Law on the Use of Passenger Data to Combat Terrorist and Serious Crimes. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. A great sportsman once spoke the genius and at the same time very simple truth: you're not going to see it until you realize it. This applies not only to sport, but also to the invisible and elusive world of algorithms. The huge amount of passenger data that will be collected on the basis of the present law will not only be searched for specific individuals, but algorithms will also be released that will pick people with a suspicious profile. Those algorithms necessarily require transparency, because otherwise, to talk to Cruijff, we will never know. The Rathenau Institute writes in the highly readingable report Upgrading; Building public values in a digital society: "The far-reaching digitisation of society raises fundamental ethical and societal issues. Government, business and society are not yet adequately equipped to deal with these new questions, and major efforts in all areas of government and society are needed to manage the digitisation of society." In view of these conclusions of the Rathenau Institute, this law deserves our full attention. The central question in the assessment of this law is for the PvdA's fraction whether the end justifies the means. Of course, we all agree on the importance of the objective of combating terrorism and serious crimes. The question that remains is whether the present law is an effective and proportionate instrument. That is why, first of all, two questions on the effectiveness of the legislation. In total, 9% of transport within the European Union takes place by air. The remaining 91% takes place by car, bus, train and so on. This raises the question of why this law concentrates on air traffic. Do serious criminals and terrorists often travel by plane, or do they often catch the bus and the train? Or do they prefer to travel by car? Can the Minister indicate if there are any research data available on this? Does the Minister intend to introduce such far-reaching legislation for the other modes of transport? This also raises the question of whether serious criminals and/or terrorists are going to massively avoid the plane after the introduction of this law. If they're smart, you'd think. We are curious about the Minister's vision. Back to the algorithms. The PvdA group is concerned about this, because these algorithms can give rise to unjustified suspicions and discrimination on a large scale. Apart from the fact that this in itself is very undesirable, it is also anything but effective. In the above mentioned report, the Rathenau Institute refers to five principles which must be taken into account in order to ensure optimum transparency. In the answers to our questions, the government states that it supports these principles in a general sense. They therefore provide a clear measuring bar to check this law. We are also focusing on one of those five principles, namely the margin of error, in response to the answers to the questions. The WRR also recommends in its report Big data in a free and safe society from 2016 to lay down more detailed rules on the permissible error margins when profiling. In response to our questions about these margins of error, the government asks: the size of what is used as permissible margins of error in profiling can only be determined on a case-by-case or category basis. The cabinet further states that the definition of the focus of these risk criteria in advance by means of a maximum of false positives is not possible. The government's response is not in line with the WRR's advice. Indeed, it does propose to lay down more detailed rules on the permissible margins of error. We would like to receive a further explanation from the Minister of the choice not to lay down any further rules on the permissible margins of error. Why is it not possible to set rules on the targeting of these margins at the front? What's it gonna take to do this? Mr. Chairman. Looking for experience with this law in other European countries, where the introduction has already started, I found a message from the Ministry of the Interior of Belgium, which showed that people who were suspected of computer fraud and theft were also caught using this new data analysis. This brings us to the following questions to the Minister. This law is intended to detect potential suspects of terrorism and serious crime, but what happens to the information collected and passed on by the passerby information unit to the services concerned, which does not cover serious crimes and terrorism, but to other matters, such as theft or outstanding fines? I'll come to a conclusion. The PvdA group has reservations about the effectiveness of this law and concerns about the unlimited error margins of the algorithms released on the passenger data, which are to be collected on the basis of the present law. This together raises questions about the proportionality of this law. That is why we look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I call Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Proactive and systematic comparison of payment data, e-mail addresses and personal data of passengers with search databases, checks of all travellers on flights from, to and within the EU, analysis on the basis of risk criteria without factual basis for suspicion, years of retention of personalised or non-personalised passenger data, even if travellers have long been out of the country or EU airspace. In other words, the PNR Directive has far-reaching implications for the privacy of passengers from EU Member States. Therefore, the European Parliament's Civil Liberties Committee rejected an earlier version of the PNR Directive in 2013. In 2014, the then government parties VVD and PvdA also opposed the collection of PNR data, something they called a holiday register. The objections expressed by both the LIBE Committee and the then government parties were that it was not beyond doubt established that mass surveillance of PNR data is an effective, necessary and proportionate means of combating terrorist and serious crimes. Following the terrorist attacks in 2015, this tide turned and Member States were suddenly united. Can the government explain why the arguments previously put forward would no longer be valid? Can incidents provide sufficient justification for such a fundamental change and if not, why this turn? A short four years and a long time later, the First Chamber has to decide very quickly to avoid sanctions from the Commission. But such a choice of principle requires careful consideration. Mr. Chairman. Of course, my group agrees with the aim of preventing terrorist and serious crimes, but we question the necessity and effectiveness of such a draconian measure and are critical of the safeguards laid down in directive and law. In addition, the Cabinet has decided to implement the Directive more broadly than necessary by applying the law to intra-EU flights. Unlike legislation, we do not feel bound by an agreement within the 2015 JHA Council to apply this optional provision. In my speech below, I would like to highlight some unfortunate aspects of implementing legislation in the view of my group, in the hope that the Minister will be able to address our concerns about this. I'll start with the legal sustainability of the underlying bill. The risk of the Court declaring the PNR Directive contrary to the Charter is enormous. My group would like to recall here the widely shared objections we had at the time to the Data Retention Directive. Have we learned enough lessons from this? Do we not now threaten to make the same mistake when the PNR Directive also appears to be contrary to the Charter? The Court annulled the Data Retention Directive in 2014 in the Digital Rights Ireland and Seitlinger judgment. This judgment was based on the fact that the Directive did not require any link between the storage of data and the behaviour of persons, which could constitute a very serious breach of the privacy of the persons concerned. This breach could only be compensated by the inclusion of appropriate guarantees and safeguards for careful data retention and processing. But in the Tele2 judgment of 2016, the Court went even further. A general and non-discriminatory retention obligation was found to be contrary to EU law. Moreover, the Court reiterated the requirement of strict rules on access and retention of data. Recently, in its binding opinion on the PNR agreement between the EU and Canada, the Court found it incompatible in parts with the right to respect for private life and the protection of personal data, as provided for in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. The PNR Directive now before us contains provisions that are virtually identical to the EU-Canada agreement, for example in relation to data retention and the lack of safeguards regarding the use of risk criteria. But of course this also applies to the fact that all of everyone's data is kept. Civil rights organisations in Austria and Germany have therefore already brought a lawsuit against the German State. Given the clear line of the Court, it is highly likely that the PNR Directive will also be declared contrary to the Charter. Of course, here too, as with the retention obligation, the PNR data as a whole provides precise conclusions about private life: with whom his people are going to fly or travel in a different way, who has paid it, where they are going, diets, you name it. All in all, there is so much of private life that it constitutes that infringement and that it cannot be justified, given that it is also about people who are not at all connected with any suspicion. The Government acknowledges that, but then states that this risk does not affect the validity of the Directive and the obligation to implement it until the Court would declare the Directive unbinding. However, the Council of State has stressed that the cabinet cannot do enough and must take further steps to bring the directive into line with the Charter. Does the government really believe that it has acted on this? In response to the Groothuizen motion, the Minister undertook to raise the issue of re-evaluation or revision of the PNR Directive as soon as possible. However, under Article 19 of the PNR Directive, the Commission will only review the Directive in a year's time. What is the Minister's assessment of the likelihood that the Commission will carry out a review or review before then? What scope does the Minister see for other ways of calling for re-evaluation of the Union legislator, for example through the European Council? Perhaps the government should choose 'both a rock and a hard place', between the implementation of the directive, with the risk that judges in the Netherlands and therefore the Netherlands will condemn the directive and not implement it, with the risk of getting the Commission on its feet, which may then be subject to infringement proceedings. Perhaps that scenario is still preferable, because it will also enable a Court ruling to be reached. The Court will, of course, decide whether the directive itself complies with the Charter. In fact, here we have to answer the question to whom the Netherlands should be primarily faithful: to the Treaty, as interpreted by the Court, or to secondary Union law? I would also like to put this question to the Minister. The Groothuizen amendment to Article 25 of the legislative proposal provides that the effectiveness and effects of processing PNR data from intra-EU flights should be explicitly mentioned in the review of the law. What other criteria are involved in this evaluation? And how does this evaluation relate to the expiry of Article 25a after or without three years, unless the AMvB provides for its continued application to intra-EU flights? What about democratic control? There is a pending procedure, but that is something other than an amendment by law which the Chambers should also agree to. Wouldn't that be preferable, I ask the Minister. Finally, how will the Commission's evaluation be involved in the decision whether or not Article 25 should lapse? The Government has indicated that there is no scope for differentiation in the application of the PNR Directive to intra-EU flights and flights to and from third countries. For example, it is not possible to screen only for terrorist offences on intra-EU flights and not for serious crime. What does this mean for the scope of the bill? For example, the legislative proposal includes a limited list of serious crimes with imprisonment of at least three years. In other EU Member States, this list of serious crimes could be considerably longer if there are higher penalties for minor offences. What does the implementation of the PNR Data Protection Directive in the Netherlands mean and the provision of information to the passenger information units and intelligence and investigation services of those Member States? What data are then provided and which criteria of which Member State are then leading? Should an application from the Netherlands for data on a specific passenger comply with the Dutch criteria of a serious crime or does the list of the far-reaching country apply? Does the Minister have an overview of the types of crime identified as serious in other Member States and what form does this take? Is there a risk that, on the basis of Member States with high prison sentences for relatively minor offences, the provision of data in practice is much more low-threshold than the Dutch implementing legislation suggests? I would like a response from the Minister to the risk of low-threshold data exchange and the impact on the scope of the PNR Directive. Following the terrorist attack in the Thalys between Paris and Amsterdam, the Belgian Government announced that it would also apply the directive to international trains, buses and ferry boats. It cannot be ruled out that future incidents related to terrorism or serious crime are grounds for following this example. In the written reply, the Government indicated that it will consider in due course whether there will also be pilots in the Netherlands with ferry, high-speed train or bus traffic, as in Belgium and the UK. Can the Minister share with us when he thinks such pilots are needed? What criteria are to be met? And under what conditions should such pilots start? What guarantees does this bill offer against an ever-expanding of the powers for the collection of personal data? The purpose of applying risk criteria is to identify persons who have not previously been known or suspected of terrorism or serious crime, but who, on the basis of these criteria, pose a risk. The processing of personal data on the basis of these risk criteria and the provision of data to investigative authorities shall be under the supervision of the Personal Data Authority (AP) and the control of the independent Data Protection Officer (FG). But is this supervision sufficiently laid down in the legislative proposal? Our group finds it remarkable that both bodies are not involved in the implementation of the risk criteria. This is, however, subject to the express approval of a committee with representatives of the Public Prosecutor, the Pi-NL and the competent investigative bodies. The characteristic feature of risk criteria produced by big data analyses and algorithms is that they are often not transparent and understandable to humans. It doesn't matter which criteria are used. It is precisely because of the preventive nature of this method that it is very important that the independent data protection officer not only has ex post access but also has control over the establishment of these criteria. I can imagine that there is the argument that you have to keep supervision separate in advance and afterwards, so that you have an uninhibited judgment afterwards, but then there is the question of whether it is wise that only investigators and prosecutors should be involved in drawing up the criteria. Shouldn't another body be fulfilling the function of privacy guard and looking at those criteria in that way? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Does the FG have sufficient access to the application of risk criteria for ex post verification? Is it not also important for the FG to know why certain criteria have been drawn up? The FG cannot prevent or sanction the processing or provision of data, but only transmit it to the AP. The AP can sanction, but depends on the information provided by the FG. The AP then has to collect data and carry out research itself. This raises the question of whether the Minister has sufficient confidence in the functioning of this supervision, its interdependence, and the fact that steps are needed from both sides to achieve a complete picture and sanctioning. Is the Minister prepared to amend Article 18 (2) of the draft law implementing the directive in this respect if necessary? Finally, what is the position of the citizen? I just mentioned the previous judgment, which made access to data, the obligation to notify and so on as important demands by the Court. What is the position of citizens in the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u6	Do you think about the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u7	Yes. I've got a few more sentences. When exactly will they be informed about the use of their data and where can they go with corrections or complaints? Mr. Chairman. It will have become clear to the Minister that we have serious doubts about supporting this bill, because we see a conflict with the Charter and because the government goes further than the Netherlands directive requires. I mentioned the Data Retention Directive. There, too, the contradiction in the treatment of implementation was already evident. This Chamber was then persuaded to agree and subsequently confirmed its doubts by the Court of Justice. However, we cannot simply shift our responsibility as co-legislator for treaty-compliant legislation to the Court. That fundamental doubt is without prejudice to our hope that the Minister will clarify our questions about the safeguards, implementation and enforcement of data processing under the directive. We look forward, as usual, to his answers. That will be the last time for me, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. You're in a bit of an injury period. I'm a coulant, but I won't be in the interruptions anytime soon. I call Mrs Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill implements a European Directive, the PNR Directive, which aims to combat serious and terrorist offences. This is an objective that almost everyone will agree with, but there is a difference of opinion as to how this objective can be achieved and what safeguards are involved. The D66 Group has been critical of this directive, as have the political groups in the House of Representatives and the European Parliament. Questions have been raised, for example, about the justification of the usefulness of this directive and the need to keep all this data for a long time. The directive which is now being implemented is therefore subject to certain conditions, since, following the adoption of this directive, the European Court of Justice issued a binding opinion on a PNR agreement between the EU and Canada. In the Court's view, this agreement did not sufficiently guarantee fundamental rights as laid down in the Charter. The opinion only concerns that agreement, an agreement with a third country, but there are agreements with the directive that are now being implemented, the Council of State also concludes. There is therefore a chance that we will implement a directive that will ultimately not stand up in this form, because fundamental rights are not sufficiently protected, with all the consequences for privacy. Don't forget the work that has already been done. Mr. Chairman. This, of course, goes against the D66 group, because implementing directives is not optional and it is not a non-binding choice. It is inextricably linked to being part of a union. The case law in this area is also clear. Until an act of the Union has been declared invalid by the Court of Justice, Member States should not adopt measures contrary to the Directive. The dilemma that follows was clearly reflected in the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State first concluded that implementation should continue now that it is not the directive that has been declared invalid. At the same time, the Council of State also concludes that steps need to be taken to bring the Directive into line with the Charter. In addition, the Minister is asked to explain what steps are to be taken in this area. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that there is an obligation to implement. The Netherlands is already behind schedule. However, it is also clear that questions can be asked about the legal sustainability of the directive. The D66 Group does not consider this a desirable situation. For this reason, too, our group considers it important that the Minister's commitment remains to at least re-assess the directive on legal sustainability. A motion for a resolution has also been adopted in the House of Representatives. The Minister also indicated in the reply after our questions that he would like to put this item back on the agenda after the European elections. The question that remains open to our group is how to achieve real results. Are there, for example, other countries with which the Minister can hang out? Following questions from the Christian Union Group, the response shows that joint initiatives have not yet been identified. But doubts about the directive do not only exist in the Netherlands. This is also reflected, for example, in reports on possible court cases from Germany and Austria. Does the Minister, for example, address the question of the sustainability of the directive? For example, the Council of State mentioned the retention and use of the data. We would like to hear from the Minister how he feels about this. Mr. Chairman. This bill also goes beyond what is strictly legally necessary in the case of intra-EU flights, which has already been mentioned by Mrs Strik. The Directive may apply to intra-EU flights. However, it is not an obligation. However, it is part of European agreements to do so and, not least, the vast majority of the Member States have now implemented these agreements. This means that intra-EU flight data is stored in the Member States where the flight arrives from the Netherlands or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you for your speech. I think we have a little bit of the same problem with this implementation law. Perhaps the D66 Group is making a different assessment, and I am very curious about that. You just said it doesn't seem legally sustainable. At the same time, we are obliged to implement a directive. I also put the question to the Minister: what is the priority, what is the priority, the higher treaty law or a secondary Union law? How do you feel about that? Finally, I would like to ask the following question. You indicate that implementation goes beyond what the directive necessarily requires. Wouldn't that also be a reason to say, if we already have such serious doubts about legal sustainability, that in any case we want implementation to be limited to what is strictly necessary to which the directive is committed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u11	Thank you for Mrs Strik's questions. The first question, which aspect prevails, was of course also discussed in the group. In fact, the European Court has always been clear about this. The case law is also clear. Until something has been declared invalid, it is simply valid; so is the directive. We absolutely have questions about the legal sustainability of this directive. Those questions also live wider. But it is up to the European Court to judge this. This is also very well reflected in the opinion of the Council of State. That is actually two-fold; that is exactly the dilemma. It says: implement must, but please also take further steps to ensure that legal sustainability is at least properly tested. That is actually our urgent appeal, our urgent question, to the Minister: how can we best achieve concrete results?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u12	And the second question? We have not yet had the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u13	I get that. That's what we've been weighing up. It is a European agreement, not as legally binding as the directive, but an agreement at European level. What weighs us heavily is the fact that a large part of the Member States are now implementing these agreements. Suppose we say that we are not implementing at all because it is now going a little further than the directive. Moreover, the directive does offer this possibility, but it is not an obligation. But let's say we're not implementing because of the fact that that option is being used. Then we do not implement and do not follow the rules as they apply, while the practice is that in the rest of Europe these data are used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u14	I do not think that the latter argument is so strong. The point of principle is that this directive is probably not right; let us limit ourselves to the minimum. Exactly the same discussion played under the Data Retention Directive, the Law on retention, where there was a bandwidth between six months of retention and two years. The government had sat down for one year. The First Chamber actually wanted to go to six months, so that you at least limit yourself to the minimum required. That's what we enforced back then. We then forced an amendment. You could take the same view: okay, we may be obliged to implement legislation, but we only do so as far as we are required to do so. Of course, there is no political agreement. The court will never hold us to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u15	The Court will not hold us to that. We have agreed on a European basis. In this respect, we also welcome the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives which make sure that the effectiveness of including these flights in the legislative proposal is really taken into account and that a horizon clause has been added to the law. All in all, we then consider that we can justify this for now, despite the doubts that exist, also because the practice is that it happens in the rest of Europe in this way; I believe that the vast majority of the Member States have implemented it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u16	Mr President, may I finally comment on this argument? In fact, you say that it may not be all right, but because so many Member States do it, we cannot really lag behind or really do not care so much. I believe that each Member State must assume its own responsibility in this regard. Then it is a pity that different choices are made in other Member States, but that can never be an argument for doing the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u17	It's never the only argument, but all things considered, we judged it that way. It is precisely because it is happening everywhere, and precisely because a number of amendments have been adopted in the House of Representatives that provide guarantees, that is how we assessed it. We do indeed have doubts about the legal sustainability of this directive. We hope that it will be fully clear very quickly, because just the fact that there is uncertainty about it is not a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. I have now incorporated a number of parts of my text into my reply to Mrs Strik, so I may be left with time. In any event, the D66 Group is looking forward to the results of the evaluation on the inclusion of intra-EU flights in the application of this directive and hopes, as I said earlier, that the legal sustainability of the directive will be clarified well before then. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question about the so-called false positives, positive results of comparisons with databases or risk criteria which proved to be wrong afterwards. The number of false alerts should, of course, be as low as possible. In response to questions from members of the PvdA Group, the Minister indicated that a maximum percentage of profiling could not be set properly, as this would have to be assessed on a case-by-case or series basis. This raises the question of how this number is to be evaluated. For example, in German reporting, a percentage of 99.7% emerged when comparing passenger data with search databases. The fact that this is a high percentage will often be endorsed. What is acceptable and what is real remains a question for the D66 Group. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about the implementation of the bill. Resources have been made available to address the impact of implementation in the so-called chain organisations. The exact impact cannot always be predicted. This was also reflected in a chain-wide impact analysis, analysing the effects of the creation of the Passenger Information Unit Netherlands (Pi-NL). Our group would like to hear from the Minister how mid-term monitoring can ensure that the available resources are and remain sufficient. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In the last few weeks of this Chamber, it is now also the last time I have been allowed to speak, for which I am grateful. Of course, we look forward to the answers of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u21	Then I like to be able to ask one more question in this cooperation. Mrs Vink also pointed out that she was pleased with the safeguards introduced by amendments. One of these concerns the definition of horizons. I have already asked the Minister this question. At AMvB it is then decided to extend the application to intra-EU flights. There is a pending procedure, but how does Mrs Vink see the role of, for example, the First Chamber in this? Is there sufficient control of the very important decision to continue this on the basis of an evaluation? Such a decision must be substantiated. It needs to be held against the light. Can Mrs. Vink say anything about that? Can that be sufficiently democratically controlled in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u22	I think that the answer that the Minister is about to give is really important, as is the way in which it is going to be organised. Does all the underlying information come to us in time? Is there a good way to judge things? I would like to await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u23	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u24	It's an amendment from the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives therefore wanted that to be checked and that this should not go unpunished. That is why I would like to ask the opinion of the D66 Group. How does it see that democratic control is secured in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u25	I have just indicated that we as a group welcome the fact that this amendment has been introduced at all, because it provides an additional guarantee to consider whether it is actually effective to include those intra-EU flights in the legislative proposal in that way. There is, of course, a reason why the Chambers can have access to it in this way. So, of course, we think that democratic control is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u26	Mrs Strik does not seem satisfied, but the question has been answered. Thank you, Mrs. Vink. I call Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. Let me say in advance that this is not my last contribution; it will be tomorrow, but not today. So I'm gonna say something, but I won't talk too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u28	I didn't expect that for a moment, Mr. Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u29	Fine, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It will be a brief contribution, because I have to say that I have listened with great appreciation to the contributions of the previous speakers. I fully endorse a great deal of what Mrs Strik said. So I'm not going to repeat that. Moreover, I would like to point out that my party colleague Van Nispen has discussed the subject in detail and in depth in the House of Representatives. I am not going to repeat that; that has been very good and I am referring to that. Maybe at the end of a career of 20 years in this Chamber I can say that, when I was struggling with this bill, the story that didn't exist twenty years ago, struck me personally: algorithms, big data, big brother. Those are all new things. Not so long ago I received personal mail at any time by e-mail in which a particular medicine was recommended. I have a certain disease that I don't want to elaborate on, but that drug was exactly about that. How is that possible? How could anyone at random know that I have that disease, that I would want a particular medicine? Then I didn't feel well. I was already sick, not very sick, but if that happens to you, do you think, are these big data, is this an algorithm? Probably; that's how it apparently works in society. I also discussed it with our former colleague from the previous period, Professor Hans Franken, who started this topic in the 1970s and was promoted there. He also said, "I don't like this bill. Those big data are coming off. If you call them, they will live their own lives." About that's how he told me. That's something I always have in mind when I read this bill. I understand very well that we have to fight these terrorists, and I understand very well that we have to prevent serious crimes. In every attack, you think again: couldn't we have prevented that? 'Cause that's horrible, of course. I understand the directive, but I think that the directive is actually going through again. I also think that the balance has been lost. Some of you have also spoken about the dilemma of that consideration. I feel that, too. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain to us once again the usefulness, necessity and proportionality of the balance between them. Why do you, considering everything, make the choice for one side and why not for the other side? That's not easy. I realize that, but I'd like to hear that from the Minister. There's something else I'd like to hear from the Minister. The government, of course, has a duty not to criminalise its citizens unnecessarily and to protect them from unnecessary government influence and government interference. That's a well-known phenomenon. Against this background, I was wondering whether the government has taken sufficient account of proportionality. For example, has the government considered serious research into alternatives and the extent to which this should go? And why did the government deviate from the minimum in the directive? Why did they move on? I also get an unheimical feeling about the example mentioned by Mr Strik about Belgium, where people are already expanding. Soon it will be in the directive and it will be said: another attack; let us broaden it a bit. The border is missing and I do not find that satisfactory. That is why I would like to receive an intrusive reply from the Minister. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, how much time do you need to prepare for answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u31	An academic quarter of an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u32	An academic quarter of an hour. Then we'll suspend until 10:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u33	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u34	Mr. Chairman. It may be, as you know. I have just digested a piece of Wasa knäckebröd in some haste, "in terms of dinner technique," Kees van Kooten would say. Your President, on the other hand, made use of the cafeteria today, I understood. I've heard from her that the lasagna didn't like it. Why do I start with this? Because I actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u35	You didn't want to criticize the kitchen, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u36	No, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know, I'm somewhat out of control here, because I had a little gift for your President and that gift was a framed, original school record of the legislative process in the 1950s. I would like to tell the Members of Parliament present who date from that time, that that went in seventeen steps. So I'm just going to show it to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on this list. When I started as a fresh minister, one of the experienced officials also gave me an overview of the progress of a bill today. Mr President, I can tell you that did not fit in with six A5s. What shouldn't be consulted and what shouldn't be done... Today's bill on the implementation of the so-called PNR Directive, which entered into force in May 2016, will be expected to be able to do so one-two-three because it was just a copy of the directive which was not yet adopted in the 1950s. But it's not like that. It's taken time, I'll admit to coming to your Chamber with this bill. First of all, I would like to stress that I am very grateful to your Chamber for its willingness to deal with the legislative proposal quickly but naturally with the requirements for care. I acknowledge that implementation has taken longer than I consider desirable. I'd also like to explain the reason for the delay. The PNR Directive, together with the GDPR and the Data Protection Directive, was part of a comprehensive package of Union legislation on the protection of personal data. As Mrs Vink has stressed here today, privacy is precisely such an important element of this bill. The implementation process of the instruments significantly took up the legislative capacity available. Why? It is precisely because we have seen some of the dilemmas put forward by Members today that I have heard them well from all four of them, including Mrs Fiers, Mr Ruers and Mrs Striker in the department. I would like to tell you that I spoke to Commissioner King at a rather early stage: in March 2018. I have, of course, asked questions, and I will deal with them later, following the ruling of the Court of Justice on the Canada Convention. I asked him: how do you view this, because according to European law we simply have to continue with the train of implementation? In that interview, the Commissioner made it very clear to me that the Commission had no doubt as a starting point that the Member States should continue to implement it and that the Canada ruling, as I would just mention to him, should not stand in the way of that and should not stand in the way of it. But I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. So we have been working hard. I would also like to mention here that is a small piece of Dutch pride that has been developed from the NCTV, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, the system that has been adopted by many countries. The source codes were transferred by the Netherlands to the United Nations, so that other countries could also work with that system in the future. We must realise that this passenger information is also something that has been called for from the United Nations. It has not been conceived in the EU alone. Its implementation has taken longer than I would have wanted. The legislative proposal includes all kinds of safeguards to ensure that privacy is properly checked, but also to evaluate in a few years' time whether the bill actually has the effectiveness we wanted. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point and the need, with which I have already answered the questions of the honourable Members who have spoken today. The purpose of the PNR Directive is to combat terrorist offences and serious crime. The European Commission has carried out an impact assessment in the drafting of the PNR Directive. This showed that a directive aimed at collecting the so-called PNR data of air carriers at national level is necessary to enhance security within the EU, within the framework of privacy protection. I would like to emphasise the dual nature of the directive. The use of passenger data is possible, but it also specifies the standards in the Data Protection Directive. In the direction of Mr Ruers, I would like to emphasise, however, that you can see in the Chambers of Procedure that this directive and this legislative proposal do not allow data to be processed from which personal characteristics could be derived. Sometime today I heard the echo in the conference room of the word 'diet' again. There's been a lot of misunderstanding about that, too. That kind of data, which could be used to determine whether someone is Orthodox-Jewish, for example, should not be processed. I can't say that enough. Mr. Chairman. The experience of Member States and third countries with the use of PNR data for law enforcement purposes from 2010 has led to significant progress in the fight against drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and terrorism in particular, as well as increased knowledge of the composition and operation of terrorist and other criminal networks. That is what we are talking about, I say to Mr Ruers. We are, of course, talking about terrorism and serious crime and not some minor crimes. With regard to the safeguards in the legislative proposal against further extension of powers, I note that the legislative proposal has a very strict target limitation, namely the fight against terrorism and serious crime. I told you. This concerns the crimes listed in the Annex. Mr. Chairman. Without the availability of PNR data in one central place, travel movements of terrorists and criminals are difficult to check for investigative authorities. Data should be requested on a case-by-case basis from different air carriers because in most cases it is not known with which carrier is travelling. Those investigations can be very time-consuming. The PNR Directive ensures that the exchange of PNR data is harmonised and facilitated at EU level. Mr. Chairman. Then something about intra-EU flights. Security is not exclusively a national matter. The absence of internal borders within the Schengen area has further increased the importance of the joint raising of Member States. All Member States recognise the importance of collecting PNR data from intra-EU flights in the fight against terrorism and serious crimes. This is why, at the JHA Council of 3 and 4 December 2015, all Member States adopted a joint declaration on the full application of the PNR Directive to all intra-EU flights. The Netherlands has a responsibility to other EU Member States to follow up those commitments made in the JHA Council and to implement the European Security Agenda, which is an important part of the PNR Directive. By the way, this has been reported. It was discussed in more detail in the Lower House in April 2016 and was then able to count on the approval of the vast majority of MPs and political groups. As mentioned above, by collecting and analysing PNR data from intra-EU flights, we can detect potential terrorists and criminals within the European Union. In addition, I will finish this, if you will allow me, after a terrorist attack or serious offence in Europe, a suspect can be detected more quickly. In this way, I come to the number of millions of passengers using Dutch airports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u37	Mrs. Strik has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u38	From the documents and from the debate in the House of Representatives, I understand that the Minister also admits that the struggle with the Charter could indeed be there, but that we have to implement it. Can the Minister elaborate on that? In fact, the Minister is defending the legislative proposal. He says it is necessary, that we need it and that we also need those intra-EU flights. But how does that relate to the expectation that it might break if the Court is to review it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u39	I have a... it's just not Gouda's phone book yet, but quite a few sheets with answers to the questions of the Member Strik, where this is also included. I would also like to do it now in the context of an interruption. I was just explaining those intra-EU flights, but I'm coming up next, you see; it's Gouda-South to the answers to all of Mrs Strik's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u40	I suggest that the Minister keep his order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u41	Yeah, or we're gonna do it double. Mr. Chairman. An estimated 52 million people use Dutch airports on intra-EU flights. This is 68% of all passengers travelling through Dutch airports each year. Intra-EU traffic is by far the largest source of hits and alerts, and thus of high added value, according to an impact analysis carried out. No intra-EU data collection directly affects our own national security and that of Europe as a whole. The Netherlands will then become the drain with a modern word. The risk is that malicious people will choose the Netherlands as a transfer site, because the follow-up route here remains invisible. All tickets within the EU show that, with the exception of one of the three Baltic States, all EU Member States have either implemented or are about to implement either including intra-EU. Mr. Chairman. In fact, I would like to say out loud that I am convinced that the PNR Directive serves our security and is not just aimed at incidents. No matter how painful, it was discussed in December 2015, a month after the terrible Bataclan attacks, and in April 2016, a month after the nasty attacks on Zaventem. But also after that, terrorist attacks continued in the EU, in Germany, Sweden, the United Kingdom and last year in our country, in Amsterdam. There is still a great deal of serious crime and there is a need for cooperation at European level. That's one side, that's the safety. The other side is to guarantee that privacy. I will come back to that in a moment in the context of the discussion of questions on the Charter. I would also like to point out that the Groothuizen amendment has provided additional guarantees in terms of the processing and effectiveness of the application of the directive. That honor belongs to him. Mr. Chairman. On the questions whose answers are not directly the result of the introduction, I come to Mrs Strik and Mrs Vink, who pointed out the likelihood that the Commission would carry out a re-evaluation or review and what scope there would be for other roads. Let me begin with the fact that the Netherlands has been kept in full force to implement the legal directive, as I have already said, and that is the purpose of this legislative proposal. The Great Houses motion, not to be confused with the amendment just mentioned, calls on the government to actively promote a legal review and, if necessary, review of the Directive in the light of EU privacy rules. I think this is an important moment, now, shortly after the elections. I have already announced and promised in the House of Representatives, and I repeat this to you, Mr President, that I will prevent you from asking the newly elected Commission as soon as possible to argue in favour of that legal review or revision of the directive. An assessment of the chances that or how the Commission will re-evaluate is not up to this government. The government also does not consider it appropriate to take other steps to urge re-evaluation of the Union legislator. Mrs Strik also asked why the scope of the bill is not only on terrorist but also on serious crimes. The purpose of the PNR Directive has always been wider than just the fight against terrorism. The Stockholm Programme of 2010 already called on the Commission to prepare a measure on the use of PNR data, with a view to combating terrorism and serious crimes. That scope has been a starting point and a goal from the outset. Direct triggers for the extension of the scope to intra-EU were the terrorist attacks that took place in all their horror in November 2015, that is correct. But we have seen before and after that that a number of times it is very important to monitor and review the movements of suspects of terrorist offences. It is impossible or impossible to distinguish between processing PNR data on flights to and from third countries and intra-EU flights for the purposes of terrorism and serious crimes, in order to do so solely for the purposes of terrorism. The directive does not give that space either, and that must be clear. All Member States have committed themselves to this and in most countries it has already been fully implemented, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u42	Mrs. Strik has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u43	I would like to return to what the Minister said earlier, that he did not consider it appropriate to take other steps to achieve that legal review. I should like to remind you of the ad hoc working group that has been meeting for a long time in the JHA Council on the consequences of the destruction of the Data Retention Directive, following the Court's Tele2 judgment. Didn't that come up at the time? This seems to me to be entirely logical, because, of course, at the time we were discussing what legislation could still be adopted, if the Court rejected it so clearly that everyone's data were not differentiated and general.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u44	I haven't been in that working group, so I can't say anything about it myself. All I do know is that we need to take a good look at it. The Tele2 statement clearly puts the finger on the sore spot of lack of proportionality and necessity, as I have already pointed out here in my first legislative proposal, on the ANPR cameras. Whatever else is found about the ruling on the data directive, it has thus been dealt with in a very different way. That's one. Here we are also talking so far about a directive that the Court of Justice has not yet ruled on. There has been a reference to the EU-Canada agreement, and I would like to mention it right away, but there is a very fundamental difference. This is a third country, not an agreement, or a directive, which applies between EU Member States. This is an agreement between the EU and Canada. Of course, it has all been discussed extensively in the Chambers. In this case, for example, the Commission has also admitted to the Court that data are provided, from which personal data can be derived. So the Court says very clearly on this issue: when it comes to the EU and a third country, we set the bar very high. In that judgment, I would like to stress that the Court did not say anything about this directive, which was already there at the time, as you know. So we really need to make a distinction. There is a ruling by the Court on another issue, the Data Directive. The Court's main concern is proportionality. That you then set up a working group... Once again, I have not been there, but I can imagine that you will have to look into the consequences of this within the JHA Council. Today, there was an extremely important ruling by the Court of Justice on the European arrest warrant, which is marked by all kinds of legal effects that have been found in most Member States and which are now suddenly unable to do so. Well, you need to get to work on that right away. But this is a completely different situation. This is a directive adopted in accordance with the legislative procedures within the EU. The Court has so far seen no reason to call that directive into question. And that was the possibility the Court had in Canada's ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u45	Of course, one directive is not the other, but I think that Member States are obliged, also from the Union's faith in the Treaty, to look at the general principles and criteria used by the Court and then to apply them as co-legislators themselves. That PNR directive was, of course, already adopted before the Tele2 judgment and before the opinion on the Canada agreement was reached. Then it seems logical to me that the Union legislator himself, with the glasses of those statements, reflects on the existing legislation. The general principles of this are also general and undifferentiated data storage of all people, even if there is no relationship with a suspicion. The minister just said that there were other personal data...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u46	Mrs. Strik, is your interruption going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u47	Yeah, sure. A bit about private life could be seen, but this is also the case. That is what I indicated in my first term. Who are you traveling with? How many times? Who's paying for it? Et cetera. My question is: should a Member State really wait for the Court to give a ruling on a directive? There will have to be a question for a preliminary ruling first, or an infringement procedure. Do we not have a duty to see for ourselves whether a directive or legislation is still in conformity with the Charter? Doesn't it make perfect sense to at least discuss this with each other on a consultative basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u48	I fear that Mrs Strik, quite unintentionally of course, is confusing a few things. That will be because of my way of expressing. I said that this is an EU agreement with a third country. That is the key point. Then I describe what is happening in that agreement. On a number of points, this is the same as in the Directive, in terms of data processing. However, I say very strongly: the difference is that there is no agreement between EU countries, so not with all the guarantees that are possible between EU countries. That's one. Two... I was still working on the answer, but I'd like to wait for another interrogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u49	If you'll give me room for that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u50	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u51	The Minister is only talking about the Canada Agreement, but I, and indeed all the speakers, have also explicitly mentioned the judgments on the Data Retention Directive. Then it's just about everything that happens within the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u52	I have already indicated in my contribution that in the Tele2 rulings........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is not the case at the moment. I have to say, with the Commission, I have spoken with the Commissioner on this point......................................................................................................................................................... I also said that there is a substantial difference. I certainly think it would be wise to ask the new Commission to review this directive very carefully. That is what is happening, on the basis of the Great Houses motion. In the meantime, however, I have to say that the Court has not at all affected this directive. Those who say otherwise run too fast, I'm afraid. Moreover, and then I come back to the beginning, the Netherlands simply has an obligation to introduce this directive. I think it is very clear, then, that we should put a question to the new Commission. We will undoubtedly have a thorough and good answer to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions. Mrs Strik also asked why a turn was actually made: the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties rejected an earlier version of the PNR directive and the then government parties did the same. We have seen that the need for the PNR Directive has become considerably more urgent in recent years. For our own country alone, the threat level in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands has been constant for a number of years at 4. Then we have to note that for a number of years there has been a constant need for this kind of social necessity. Let me make one thing clear: in 2015 the severity was very high after the Bataclan attacks. Nevertheless, all Member States, including the Netherlands, have stated that in the further negotiations with the European Parliament, we must strike a proper balance between security on the one hand and privacy on the other, because, as I fully agree with the questioners, we must not lose sight of them. Mrs Strik asked which criteria will be involved in the evaluation of the law. The evaluation shall address, inter alia, compliance with the applicable standards for the protection of personal data, the necessity and proportionality of the collection and processing of PNR data, the length of the retention period, the effectiveness of the data exchange between Member States and, finally, the quality of passenger assessments by the Passenger Information Unit. I would almost forget that the application of these criteria to intra-EU flights is also explicitly addressed. So that happens explicitly and separately. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Strik also asked for a response to the low-threshold information exchange and the impact on the scope of the PNR Directive. Well, that directive lays down a system for transferring passenger data and processing results to the authorities in the third country. However, a transfer to third countries does not concern the exchange of information with competent authorities of other Member States and Europol is not a mandatory task of the Pi-NL. The legislative proposal also provides that transfers to third countries are only possible if certain conditions are met. These are, first of all, the criteria set out in the legislative proposal, such as the need for transfer for the detection of terrorist or serious crimes and the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the Police Data Act. Secondly, the conditions set by AMvB apply. Here's what I'm gonna do. Those rules are currently the subject of decision-making between the parties concerned, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, and may be included in the AMvB at a later date. Without AMvB, transfer is not possible under the bill. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of questions from Mrs Strik, Mrs Vink, Mr Ruers and Mrs Fiers. If you don't mind, I'll start with Mrs Fiers' questions. Among other things, she asked the question: what is being done with the information that does not relate to terrorism and organised crime? As I said, but I have now repeated it a number of times. Those data are only about serious crime and terrorism. PNR data shall not be used for any other purpose. They are therefore depersonalized in six months and then only with the permission of the Public Prosecutor can one access it. But there is no question that the Pi-NL should be allowed to provide the police with data for the detection of simple theft or for the collection of traffic fines. It's really about that swacri, as it's called in the jargon, the serious crime, and the terrorist crimes. Mrs Fiers asked understandably: why is it not possible to lay down rules on the focus of error margins at the front and what is needed to do so? I will explain at once why no further rules have been laid down on these margins of error. Well, the Rathenau Institute describes five categories that you need to take into account in order to ensure transparency. One of those five is the margin of error. For example, the question is how many "false positives" and "false negatives" exist. Are those errors due to data input, human involvement or algorithm? Those categories and all those aspects are fully taken into account in the preparation and review of the risk criteria by the Pi-NL. There is no need at present to lay down any further rules on the margin of error. If the Pi-NL is functional and starts to work with the risk criteria, this will of course be further examined. The same applies to the rules concerning the targeting of the margin of error. As soon as the need arises, these rules will, of course, be laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u53	The WRR recommends that clear criteria be set in advance. I hear the Minister saying that there is no need to do so, but especially when you hear the data I believe came from Germany, a hugely high percentage, I am curious what the Minister thinks is an acceptable ceiling. You can also wait and say: we'll see what happens and then we'll evaluate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u54	I have said that, and I think it is important that I repeat that once the Pi is functional and starts working with risk criteria, it is further examined whether rules should not be laid down for these margins of error. Then it's really starting to roll and you're able to establish that. I must also honestly admit that I would find it difficult to say: what is the best ceiling? In the end, it is important that these risk criteria make it clear what the rules are regarding the targeting of the margin of error.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u55	In response to the questions raised, the Government states that the ceiling should be set for each directive. You cannot say in general: it must always be this percentage that we find acceptable. You could say: knowing this legislation and in the light of experience in other countries, we say that the percentage margin of error for this proposal should be as much as it should be. That's what you can do at the front, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u56	I can see whether I can be more specific about this in the second term, but I understand that it is really difficult to establish it now. Then we are actually going to run ahead of the Pi, if you know what I mean, while the Pi says: we have to start up, be functional and set the risk criteria first. Then we can see how that actually works out and what a realistic margin of error is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u57	Perhaps it would be a good idea to take a look in the second term, also reflecting on the recommendation that the WRR is doing precisely to record it at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u58	I say quite honestly: I think that will be very difficult, but if you will allow it, Mr President, I will come back to it in the second term. Mrs. Fiers also asked: will criminals avoid the plane? Of course, it would be an ideal world if they were to go on the moped alone. I understand the question, but we have to realise that flying is still a mode to travel long distances. It is also very important to visualize those travel movements. You can also see very clearly immediately where someone has been, and not only where he has been, also with whom he has been on a flight at the same time. Or someone else is recognizable. That's what's gonna happen in the BOLO. With Europol, you can see that this way huge networks can suddenly be exposed to terrorists and serious criminals. No huge networks for small thefts or people with certain diets. But cars, buses and boats are not alternative means of transport, especially if you want to reach a certain speed. I went there and saw that my Belgian colleagues have now started doing that with buses, but at the moment the government has no concrete intention of thinking that way too. Mrs. Strik asked me that. Mrs Fiers also asked about the effectiveness and the availability of research data on other means of transport. At the moment, there aren't any yet. I understand, however, that it is quite different in Belgium what is being collected from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u59	Let me ask you a question about these criminals. Imagine if this law were introduced, you'd expect those criminals to know that this law applies. Wouldn't it make sense for them to start looking for other ways of moving around? That has a bit to do with the effectiveness of the law. It's like a waterbed. That's what we see with the drug trade. If you press in one place, it'll come up in another place. I understand that the Minister says that we can expose huge movements and networks, but one might expect them to relate to them again and then arrange their transport in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u60	I think I said something about that. I understand Mrs Fiers' point. Flying movements have a certain background, because they can travel considerable distances at great speed. That does not mean that terrorists and serious criminals cannot also transport themselves in a van. I'm thinking about the attack on Charlie Hebdo. It was done by terrorists with a Citroen Picasso, a completely different vehicle. That's what happens, of course. You can also think about trains, but we focus on flight movements at the moment. I shall come back to the argument of great distances and great speeds. This does not mean that there are not already movements by other vehicles, but then you will find yourself in the privacy weighing of trains and in the feasibility in very different issues. I still do not rule out saying in the future that we are so automated in transport that these movements can also focus on other things and that we are going to put them under. But not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u61	Mrs. Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u62	Just a little misunderstanding. I am not in favour of recording data on all kinds of other modes of transport. It was more a question of questioning effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u63	Yeah, but that effectiveness is there because you come across travel movements. When it comes to serious crime or terrorists, there are always a few people who move with movements. In a number of major attacks, we have also been able to see that, and that has very often revealed many more things. I'm sorry to be a bit technical, but it's often not even about the connection with all kinds of other flight movements that all related to that attack. No, that could also be flight movements where people have come together with other suspects to plan something, or I don't know what, if you know what I mean. Of course, these planes are also used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u64	Finally, a question. I heard the Minister say that we do not intend to let go of this kind of legislation on other modes of transport for the time being. Did I just hear you say that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u65	You heard me say that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u66	That's what I heard. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u67	As far as effectiveness is concerned, I say to Mrs Fiers that you could of course ask a lot more questions. Such a touring bus is, after all, much less fast in terms of movement than the plane, learns the experience in any case. I see that I also have a question from Mrs Vink about false positives. It could be that I am doing a little more in the direction of Mrs Fiers. The question was how the percentage of false positives is evaluated. I think it's good to describe this matter just as well, so that everyone can come along. The Pi-NL has two ways to compare these passenger data: with search databases and with risk criteria, the profiling. The equation is automated. If this leads to a positive agreement, we are talking about a so-called technical hit. A technical hit doesn't mean anything is going on with the person concerned, so that technical hit must be subjected to the human test. That's an individual test by an employee. If after that individual test it appears that there is an unjustified hit because the data of that person does not exactly meet the search criteria, we speak of a false positive. This concerns, for example, a name that differs only one letter from a name contained in the search database. False positives are inevitable. Criteria for searching databases will always have to take into account, for example, different writing methods of names, including throughout Europe. Criteria shall be tested in advance with the aim of determining the highest possible accuracy and avoiding as many false positives as possible. These criteria shall be established by the Pi-NL in accordance with the competent authorities. This means that consent is required from all competent authorities. The use of the risk criteria and a positive agreement between PNR data and the risk profile shall always be checked by the Pi-NL decision-making officer before they are passed on to competent authorities for further investigation. Further arrangements shall also be made regarding the period of processing and re-evaluation of the risk criteria. The FG, the Data Protection Officer, shall monitor the processing of passenger data on the basis of risk criteria. He has access to all data processed by the Pi-NL. That control function implies that he has access to the risk criteria. If the FG finds that a processing is unlawful, it may inform the Personal Data Authority accordingly. Mrs Vink also asked how mid-term monitoring could determine whether there are still sufficient resources for the implementation of the law by the chain organisations. A zero measurement is currently being carried out. The impact is measured periodically by the chain partners compared to that zero measurement. On this basis, resources are made available to mitigate the chain effects. Mrs Strik had another question about informing citizens about the use of their data and where to deal with their complaints. Data subjects shall have the right to access PNR data and the right to rectify and destroy such data. The Data Protection Officer, the FG, shall be the contact point for data subjects for all matters relating to the processing of the personal data of those data subjects by the controller. That's what Article 18 of the bill says. I have already answered the question about the exhaustive list of serious crimes. It's in the annex. That list is the same in all countries. Mrs Strik asked when the Netherlands would need pilots with ferries, high-speed trains or bus traffic. The directive is now really only about air traffic. I have already gone into this in detail with Mrs Fiers. I don't know if that's even more necessary. It is possible under this directive to regulate that national law, but I hope that through you, Mr President, I have indicated that that intention does not exist at the moment. However, we are looking with other countries to see whether this could be useful in the context of a high-speed train task force. But once again, there are no concrete intentions at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u68	Through the chairman, Mrs. Fiers. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u69	I hear the Minister say: we will see if that could be useful. Can the Minister put any of the criteria underneath that? How is he going to determine with the colleagues whether anything makes sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u70	You can already see that in the fact that it is only done with the HST-Taskforce established for this purpose. A joint technical assessment has also been carried out to explore whether the introduction of PNR by distributors of HRT could be useful. We should do this together, with the same demands, but there you see high speed. That is, of course, the point, and that is why Mrs Fiers' question was interesting: when is it effective and not effective in other forms of transport? We are, of course, talking about great effectiveness when it comes to high-speed means of transport which offer great opportunities for people to travel long distances. Mr. Chairman. I had actually promised it for the second term, but I can see if Mrs Fiers is interested in that, and I can already say something about the rules on margin of error. There is no need to adopt those rules now. It is also not possible for this Pi-NL to be functional and work with the risk criteria to determine precisely those permissible error margins. German reporting does not concern profiling, but it deals with the comparison of PNR data with the search database. Once some experience has been gained with the risk criteria at Pi-NL, it can be considered to lay down further rules at AMvB. The bill provides a basis for this. At present, as a government, we do not know about margin of error in other countries where the directive has already been introduced. I had another question from Mrs. Strik. How does the evaluation relate to the expiry of Article 25a after three years, unless it is provided by AMvB that application of the Directive may continue to apply to intra-EU flights? And is the Commission's evaluation involved in this? My answer to that is very brief: yes. Of course, that evaluation will be involved in the decision whether or not to continue with intra-EU and we will also look at the Commission's current position. Ms. Strik asked about the AP's supervision. I have faith in that. I believe that, in the meantime, the AP has proved to be extremely trustworthy in its thorough work. There is no need to adapt Article 18 (2) of the legislative proposal, which contains a comprehensive reporting obligation of the data protection officer. That official shall be responsible for checking the processing of passenger data by the Pi and for implementing the privacy guarantee. It operates independently and has access to all data for the performance of its tasks. If the FG finds that what the Pi is doing is not correct, he can go to the AP himself. That offers sufficient guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u71	Mr. Earthema has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had the Minister speak, but I wanted to rewind a little bit back to when he talked about restraint in international bus traffic and express trains, for example. You only want to focus on air traffic, but it will also be known to you, you may know my background: that a lot of swacri also happens by road, even with trains and even with ordinary cars. For example, you are in a few hours from Berlin in Amsterdam. Could you just point that out for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u73	Yes. That's right. Certainly the lack of speed limits on large parts of the motorway in Germany allows rapid movement. However, this directive was adopted because, following a number of serious attacks, it was very clear that there were movements, in particular, through aircraft. That could be established. I have just said in the debate with Mrs Fiers that it is possible to travel long distances quickly. Again, it is not even about the distance you travel from place A to the place where you attack, but it is also about travel movements within Europe as such, which can then be linked to travel movements of others. That's how a whole picture can be created. It could be worth picking up on high-speed trains as well. So that's what we're looking at. There are also other means of transport. But also very fast cars can't compete with planes. This does not alter the fact that serious crime is also used by other means of transport, but on the road we have other very suitable means of detecting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u74	Mr Aardema, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u75	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. You're talking about the people now. It is of course very nice, such a measure, but I would like to remind you that all these people often carry weapons, such as explosives. That's pretty tricky on a plane, I think. That is why I asked about your reluctance to transport by road or on trains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u76	Don't let the misunderstanding arise that we have the PNR directive to track down people with weapons on the ground. I believe that Mrs Fiers or Mrs Strik have said something about this. I shall just mention them as bad guys for a moment, and I think it will be smart enough not to put that in their suitcase. I'll tell you what, that's gonna stick out. But that's not so much the point. It's about seeing, being able to determine, travel movements, including intra-EU, from A to B. You can also associate them with travel movements of others. This way you can see patterns and get patterns back in the context of detection. Of course, the police in the Netherlands, the CT, the counter-terrorism expertise in the Netherlands and Europe, and Europol, use all possible means to track down people who smuggle weapons by road or sea. In some time, deo volente, I will come over to the First Chamber for new legislation. Mr. Chairman. I was just watching. I hope that I answered Mr Ruers sufficiently about his concerns about the proportionality of the legislative proposal, in particular by indicating which personal data should not be processed and should be destroyed and also by indicating the six-month period for the data as such. So I thought all the questions in this period have been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u77	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two more points. The first is the effectiveness of the law. We had an extensive exchange of views on this just in the first period. I understand from the Minister's argument that, above all, rapid movements mean that there is a concentration on flight traffic and possibly also on fast train connections in the future. I'm gonna keep having a little trouble with that. On the one hand, speed is, of course, an argument, but it is, from the terrorist's perspective, mainly about staying invisible, so under the radar, I would say. I believe that this can still be done with all the other modes of transport. So I'm still a little stuck with the argument to just concentrate on the flights, and that's why I have doubts about the effectiveness of the law. However, I would like to challenge the Minister once again to look at the advance fixing of rules on the number of errors, the false positives. The moment you do that in front, you also force the execution to find sharper and more targeted. Perhaps it is a nice challenge to get to work on that, possibly just learning from the experiences of implementation in the other countries. I am, of course, waiting for the Minister's answers. Then I'll take it back to the group to see what we're gonna do with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u79	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. A large part of today's debate is about how it relates to the Court's principles of privacy, and what is actually still possible when it comes to data retention. The Minister stated in his reply that this PNR directive is actually something quite different. After all, other data are collected, he said, and the Court judgment was actually about proportionality. But I think that is at the heart of the problem. I have just returned the letter that the Minister wrote to us in March 2018 in the report of a written consultation on how to proceed after the Court judgment on data retention, the judgment on Tele2. The Minister also writes how that Court judgment is to be interpreted. It states that the objective of serious crime cannot justify the general and undifferentiated retention of all traffic and location data. Because detention is the rule of the Data Retention Directive......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Court thus explains to the Government that the judgment also states that the problem it has with the Directive is that there is no differentiation and that no restriction or exception is provided for according to the objective pursued. The Court has said very clearly: that general, that undifferentiated, that is the problem. If it were somehow limited in terms of geographical location, target group or that kind of thing, it would still be justified and proportionate. I can see very clearly the analogy with this PNR directive. After all, it assumes that you collect the data from everyone so that, if something happened, you can look back at who could be associated with it. I think that's exactly the same thing. It's about different dates, but it's just as much about retention for ex post detection. In this letter the government also explains: the demands made by the Court are very difficult, because we do want to be able to look back. You can't know in advance which target group to target, because you don't know what will happen and who can be associated with it; so we have to start saving generally. The question therefore remains, in my view, what Member States are actually allowed to store in general and undifferentiated, in view of the Court's argument. My group really has trouble just going on and seeing where the ship is stranded, especially given that the Netherlands goes even further than the strict requirements of the directive. I shall come back to the way in which the bill on the retention of telecommunications and internet data has been dealt with here. Then the implementation law also indicated a wider implementation. The law made use of the bandwidth indicated by the directive. Then the Minister here promised to go back with a legislative amendment to the minimum requirement of the directive, precisely in order to meet the Chamber and to indicate that there may be a conflict with privacy, with the Charter. That's why we're doing nothing more than necessary, he said. My group regrets that this has not happened now and that the Netherlands is actually deliberately going beyond what is necessary. In my view, this is not in line with the government's position, namely that it is very keen to have a legal review and that it is keen to see action taken within the Charter. I am therefore considering going to my group with a negative opinion. Our party is also always looking for incentives to make people take the plane less often, but we do not see this bill as the right method for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u82	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. My group remains open to the question of the legal review. We have asked whether it might be possible to take explicitly what the Council of State has said and the bottlenecks mentioned to the Commission. It is true that the ruling on the agreement with Canada is only based on that agreement, but our own Council of State has a consequence. This leads us to conclude that it is contrary to the Charter on points. That cannot be put aside, so at least that question was still open. Can that point be taken? I also had the question as to whether it would be possible to go with other countries. It can't be that these doubts play only in the Netherlands. This is also reflected in the lawsuit that can be launched in Germany and Austria. We still had those questions open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u83	Thank you. Finally, Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. He didn't convince me on every point. Once again, I agree with the words of Mrs Strik, whom I consider to be quite right. You can certainly compare the different statements that have been made, but in both cases a lot of things are the same. In the first instance, I have "what's proportional" in the context of "what's proportional"? Also asked what the government itself did to get the information on the criminals we want as soon as possible. I would just like to read out the following: '(...) rather than the mass collection of personal data of all travellers', 'which is shooting hail, I shall say 'that is, of all those people who go on holiday or travel for work, more priority should be given to exchanging information on suspects and cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in this area. Because that's exactly what we think is very important." It has just been said: what is cooperation like? So, what's next? I'm just quoting the papers from the House of Representatives. This is a text from my colleague Van Nispen. He has simply noted that only a small number of Member States contribute to the sharing of this information, to the use of existing European systems and databases, and that it is not desirable to collect more data from all citizens from the point of view of data minimising in relation to the protection of privacy, while the existing systems for specific information exchange on suspected persons are not yet functioning in an optimal way. That's a first chance, isn't it? A first chance to deal with it? Isn't that where the government left something? Those possibilities to optimize were there. Then implement it and then come up with a further measure! That is an existential point for us. And then the question is whether we are going to extend the scheme again. The minister says, no, we don't. But let's face it. In 2014, when the debate was also held, there were different views among some parties than now. Then there will be a major attack, I think it was in Paris; terrible, terrible all of them and as a result the ideas suddenly move. We can expect more terrorist attacks in Europe. I'm afraid so. That's terrible. I see it happening that it will be said again: much harder, even more measures! Then we're gonna expand it again. There's just a little pressure on it. Once you've crossed that line, the circumstances will take you back to the next border very easily. I think we should avoid that. So I have great difficulty with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. Is the Minister able to answer the questions immediately? Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. As I said, I only ate a slight knäckebrödje and no lasagna, so I am still able to continue with the second term. Mr. Chairman. I start where I just ended up, namely with Mr Ruers. There is a remarkable paradox there. What he rightly points out is that in recent years, I have also pointed out that, unfortunately, there is a continuous threat to terrorism and that, as all the figures show, serious crime has become a very internationalised phenomenon. All in all, two very good reasons for collecting PNR data and processing the data under a very strict system in order to extract only those persons who might be involved in a terrorist offence or serious crime. The data on all those others, including people who may have been involved or have been involved in lighter crimes or who have ever been suspected of them or whatever, are not used or made available but immediately destroyed. In fact, we are saying to each other that the PNR Directive has introduced a system that is only aimed at helping us further with a proper balance of privacy in terms of security in Europe. That is precisely what Mr Ruers has said. I'm going to the other contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u87	The Minister says that it is actually not undifferentiated, because we only use the data of certain suspects. It's about retention as such, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u88	I'm not saying that! Mr President, I am very sorry, but we must pay attention. I have said that data is being collected for the purpose of I have just about read it out to determine which persons should be subject to a further investigation because those persons might be involved in a terrorist offence or serious crime. There is also no misunderstanding at all about the collection of undifferentiated data. But that is what, and that was my response to Mr Ruers, is to remove the people who are suspected of a terrorist offence or of serious crime, precisely because of that security. This is, by the way, very limited, as I indicated in the first term. Anyone who looked at that directive for half an hour can see what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u89	Finally, Mrs Strik, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. I'm so sorry I irritated the Minister. This is what I'm talking about. I listened in the answer to the question of proportionality. But it's about the retention of everyone's data. That is, of course, the major point which the Court also regards as an objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u91	But I didn't talk about proportionality at all. I wanted to explain this at the beginning, in response to Mr Ruers' story. I talked about the paradox that you want to achieve that security on the one hand, but on the other hand you will have to realize that to get there, unfortunately, you have to have a dragnet, that undifferentiated dragnet, pulling out the people who are in the search for terrorism or serious crime. That is, of course, where the very clearly targeted selection begins at that time. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Fiers asked about the speed and invisibility. I would like to emphasise that in recent years the effectiveness has been shown not only in the attacks but also in the serious crime that led to the directive. The flight movements not only play a role, but are also detectable because they are registered in this way. With car traffic, by road, that is a lot less, but experience shows that this is also a lot less used for travelling such long distances. Mr. Chairman. In response to Tele2, Mrs Strik said that the objective of serious crime cannot justify undifferentiated detention. This brings me to the issue of proportionality. I have already referred in the first term to the Tele2 ruling. I indicated that the Court considered that proportionality and necessity had not been adequately identified. That is not the case with this directive. The Commission and the Member States have weighed them up and said that the proportionality and necessity are in this directive. As a result of the Groothuizen motion, I have announced that I will immediately submit this to a new Commission for review again. Apart from the fact that this government believes that, in the current state of affairs, the proposal before us as the drafting of the PNR Directive does indeed meet the requirement of necessity and proportionality, I would like to stress once again that this European directive should simply be implemented as legislation. That is simply the consequence of the functioning of European legislation. I would like to stress that the government is in favour of this in the current state of affairs, on the understanding that we will discuss this with the next Commission, which will take place from October or November, whether we want to take that legal test again. Mrs Vink asked whether the concern of the Council of State could be taken into account in this way. Yeah, of course we'll take those points. It wouldn't be very timely not to bring them, so I can confirm that here. I will certainly be speaking to my otherwise new colleague, Mr Tugendhat, who was my colleague until recently, to the European Parliament in order to see how he looks at this. We will see whether other countries wish to raise this question with us again. Mr. Chairman. I thought I had answered the points from the second term of your Chamber. I'm just gonna take a look around and see if I'm gonna let anyone else down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u93	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I propose that next week we vote on the bill; there are no motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-4.u94	We'll meet again tomorrow at 9:30. Then I'll see you again. Good night.
