ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the UN report on the prosecution of the military summit in Myanmar for war crimes. A warm welcome to the Foreign Minister; thank you for joining us. We have seven speakers from the Chamber, all of whom have three minutes' speaking time. The first speaker is Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Genocide, murder, rape, deportation, forced labour and sexual violence: in Myanmar crimes against the Rohingya take place that are unprecedented. We have all seen the disgusting images of burnt Rohingya villages and caravans of Rohingya refugees who are now living in appalling conditions in camps. The United Nations independent fact-finding mission has therefore concluded that the summit of the military in Myanmar must be prosecuted for, as it says, the most terrible crimes under international law. DENK therefore demands that those responsible for the crimes against the Rohingya be prosecuted for their crimes. The international community must not look away when a population group is massacred purely and simply because they are Muslims. I would therefore like a clear answer from the Minister to the question of what the government has done and is going to do to ensure that the military summit in Myanmar will pay. Unfortunately, at the moment, the international community is not in a position to ensure that international law does its job. In the UN Security Council, geopolitics prevails over humanity and rule of law. DENK wants the Dutch government to continue to provide support for the referral of all crimes against the Rohingya from the UN Security Council to the International Criminal Court. DENK wants the Dutch government in a leading group of like-minded countries to work internationally to bring the current persecution at the ICC to a next stage. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this? DENK also wants the Dutch government to impose political pressure and sanctions against the Myanmari army and the Myanmari government to persuade Myanmar to recognise that the International Criminal Court can rule on the crimes against the Rohingya, because the European Union is too kind to the government of Myanmar and the Myanmari army at the moment. At the moment, it is just allowed to trade from Europe with companies in Myanmar that are demonstrably related to the Myanmari army. These companies ensure that senior military in Myanmar who commit crimes enrich themselves and that the Myanmari army has the means to do terrible things. European and other international companies are literally making blood money from Myanmar. DENK therefore wants the money crane to be turned off to the Myanmari army and all the economic branches of the Myanmari army to be on a European blacklist. As far as we are concerned, this Minister must state whether he is prepared to do so. Are cheap textiles and oil from Myanmar worth more to him or is he prepared to speak unequivocally for justice and human rights? If sanctions are insufficient in the long term and diplomatic efforts fail, DENK wants the Dutch government to collect international support as an ultimum remedium in order to establish an international temporary tribunal that, if necessary by default, will prosecute the perpetrators, just as it did in MH17 and just as it has been suggested for the prosecution of Daesh fighters. The time for Europe and the rest of the international world to look away while genocide is being committed against the Rohingya and crimes of the worst kind against humanity must be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. It has been some time since this Chamber talked about the situation in Myanmar, about the terrible situation in which the Rohingya find themselves and about the fact that those responsible in Myanmar's military summit, who have innumerable rapes, murders and crimes against humanity, are still unpunished. I have therefore read with horror the report of the factfinding mission. This shows that the military summit has committed the worst crimes under international law. To my great regret I must also conclude that the situation for the Rohingya and other minorities still seems hopeless. We can also expect little from the Nobel Prize winner, Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi. That may also be clear for some time now, unfortunately, when she said in January that the army may 'crumble' another minority, the Buddhist rebels in Rakhine. Mr. Chairman. Today, I am focusing on preventing impunity for these criminals, on the monitoring mechanism that can serve as a fact-finding bank, and on the two Reuters journalists who remain in prison. First of all, impunity. It must be avoided in this situation at all costs. Those responsible for these atrocious human rights violations must also be punished. I therefore welcome, as did the previous cabinet, that the Criminal Court has determined in this case to have jurisdiction and that a preliminary investigation into the crimes has also been initiated. I hope, of course, that this research will progress very quickly. The European Union has also rightly imposed additional sanctions against seven soldiers and extended them to fourteen. My question to this Minister is whether that is enough. Is that list exhausting enough? Are there any more soldiers who, in the opinion of this minister and in the light of previous evidence, would be on this list? Mr. Chairman. In the report, the researchers also argue in favour of setting up an evidence collection mechanism. In September 2018, the Human Rights Council in a resolution called for the establishment of this independent mechanism. My question to this Minister is what is going on with this mechanism. Has it been established yet? Is it working properly? What is the situation with regard to the government's investigation into the possibility of a UN mission in Myanmar? I fear that the answer will be clear and that this will prove to be a rhetorical question. Mr. Chairman. Finally, just as important, the freedom of the press in the country and the way journalists in Myanmar can do their work, or rather: cannot do it. The two Reutersjournalists were sentenced to seven years in prison because they wanted to tell the truth about these atrocities, because they focused the searchlight of the facts on what had to be hidden. The Supreme Court has recently decided that they should remain in prison. I ask this Minister whether the government is prepared to call on Myanmar to release these two journalists and to consider other ways in which these journalists can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. Then Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. The brutal violence in 2017 against the helpless Rohingya and other minorities in Myanmar was described as an early example of ethnic cleansing. Following a major investigation by the United Nations, a further step was taken last year. Those responsible for the more than 10,000 deaths, hundreds of thousands of refugees, torture and rapes may have committed genocide. That's a hell of a judgment no one should be surprised about. Because the army is in charge of Myanmar and impunity is the norm, the only hope is that some form of external responsibility can be assumed. That is what the UN researchers are calling for. Can the Minister respond to this? Does he see a role for the Netherlands in bringing about an international trial against those responsible for ethnic cleansing and genocide? How can the Netherlands contribute to this? What can the European Union do? The European Union has taken action, rather late in the day, against individuals responsible for the gross abuses in Myanmar. That's good. However, I would like to hear from the Minister whether the list of names corresponds to the United Nations investigation and other organisations. Can the European Union do more against those responsible? Should this list be extended? A few years before Myanmar's army switched to cleansing a part of its own population now living in neighbouring Bangladesh, the European Union chose to strengthen its relations with the country. All kinds of economic opportunities were seen. It seems clear to me that the European Union should not deepen its relations with a country that is killing its own people and pushing the border. Does the Minister agree with me? Is this process of rapprochement completely stationary now? That seems necessary to me. Are conditions attached to the possible re-establishment of more intensive relations in the future, such as the prosecution of perpetrators of ethnic cleansing and genocide or the accession of Myanmar to the International Criminal Court? That, too, seems necessary to me. I'd like a response from the Minister. Two Reuters journalists investigating the murders against the Rohingya have been sentenced to years of imprisonment in Myanmar following false charges and an unfair trial. Amnesty International states that they are called "Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo" as political prisoners who must be released immediately. Can the Minister respond to this? Is the Netherlands and the European Union calling for their release? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. Mr Van Ojik from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The UN report that has led to this debate contains gruesome details and describes a systematic pattern of crimes against humanity. The Rohingya were premeditatedly burned, raped and murdered. The Myanmari army literally wiped 392 villages off the map. The United Nations conclude that genocidal intentions were very possible. The highest general of the army has even said that the clean-up operations, as he called it, were not an answer to a specific threat but a way to solve the long-term Bengal problem, as he called it. The UN therefore calls for the prosecution of the highest generals in an international court for war crimes and genocide. Mr. Chairman. As difficult as that may be, after such a report, we have a duty to do everything we can to achieve it. A full case with the International Criminal Court requires a referral from the Security Council. Unfortunately, that is not possible for the time being, because of the veto vote of China and Russia. I'm asking the Minister if there's any view on this trail. Can we perhaps try to forge an opportunity alliance with like-minded countries, to put pressure on Myanmar and China as well? On its own initiative, the Criminal Court has already started a preliminary investigation. That is to be welcomed. Colleagues also talked about it. The question is, of course, where this preliminary investigation by the Criminal Court can lead in the eyes of the Minister. The Criminal Court can sue individuals. But we also have the International Court of Justice. Several specialists point out that the Myanmari State could be charged with violating the 1948 Genocide Convention, which was also signed by Myanmar. How does the Minister see this? Is this step being considered? Would it be possible to consult with similar countries in this respect? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a few comments on sanctions. The EU has imposed targeted sanctions against individuals from the military. There have also recently been two EU missions to see whether the trade benefits that Myanmar currently enjoys should be maintained. The results of these missions will now, as we understand from documents from Brussels, be analysed by the European Union. The analysis has already been completed, so I ask the Minister. Is he himself in favour of wider sanctions against Myanmar, or perhaps the cancellation of the trade preferences it now enjoys? I am also asking this because the army is currently continuing with atrocities against other minorities in the state of Rakhine and also in the north-east of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. Then Mr Koopmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Myanmar is, of course, far from here and is unknown to many people. But that does not change the horror of the human rights violations that are taking place there, especially against the Rohingya minority. Of course, there is violence by others other than the government army, but it is clear that the government army and the Myanmari government bear by far the greatest responsibility for what is happening there. Murders, torture, rapes, expulsions and a huge flow of refugees of over 1 million people are the result. The reception also weighs heavily on neighbouring countries, especially Bangladesh, but the Bengal government does not seem to be able to cope with this when it comes to placing refugees on an island that is still uninhabitable. In short, it is an extremely serious situation which deserves our attention and our action. That is why we are in favour of UN support for the victims. However, much of the aid is not allowed. We want to continue to appeal to the Myanmari Government and do so as much as possible at European and UN level. But let us not only express our dismay, we must also be realistic. Myanmar, of course, has a much more dependent relationship with China. The chance that they will listen to the West, to the Netherlands is of course much more limited. The role we can play is limited, but it is a good thing that we do what we can. Political pressure is exerted in the most effective ways, through the EU and through the UN. When the Netherlands was a member of the UN Security Council, the Netherlands also made maximum efforts to keep those crimes and abuses in Myanmar under review and to act on them. There is also a great deal of help and an arms embargo is already in place. The VVD also argues in favour of prosecuting the perpetrators by the International Criminal Court. There are already human sanctions against the persons mentioned in the UN report. It is therefore a good thing that the Netherlands in the international community also appeals to the right reception and that we are also helping to do so. But we have to be realistic about what we can still achieve. In the Chamber there have already been a lot of debates on Myanmar. I've counted seven adopted motions, one adopted motion and five rejected motions. The question is, what else can we do? A debate in the Chamber can not only serve to express dismay, it must also have a practical effect. That is why I am asking the Minister, and indeed the proposers, what more we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u11	I do have a suggestion for what else we could practically do. Currently, Dutch companies are still active in Myanmar. In fact, on various platforms I will come back to this in detail in my speech in a moment.They are recruited and the fantastic business opportunities of Myanmar are brought to the attention. Does Mr Koopmans agree with us that, for example, it would be a concrete step that we could take not to paint more Myanmar as a fantastic business paradise but to start telling the honest story? It is a country where genocide and gross human rights violations are taking place and where there is certainly no rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u12	Terrible things are indeed happening in Myanmar, and we must go against it as much as possible. The subsequent restriction of trade and economic development there is, of course, not in favour of the victims and the other people working in Myanmar. I would then ask Mrs van den Hul, if I may, Mr President, if she is willing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u13	No, no, no, no, it's a one-way street. Mrs Van den Hul asked the question and the answer is yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u14	Then let me say what else I would like to propose. We are also giving a lot of development aid to Myanmar through the European Union. Parts of it could be moved to other countries that could also use it. Then you have a leverage for the Myanmari government to make it clear that we do not want the human rights violations that are taking place there. Then I would be very pleased if Mrs van den Hul would agree with me that we are using this leverage, because this also affects the Myanmari government and this also benefits the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr Koopmans is not answering my question, namely whether he agrees with us that we should stop promoting Myanmar as an opportunity for excellent business opportunities without telling the honest story. I ask Mr Koopmans whether he can at this time guarantee that Dutch companies will not contribute in any form to the maintenance of that military regime there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u16	It is good that we maintain links to ensure that development takes place everywhere. In any case, I am not aware that the VVD has advertising campaigns for Myanmar. I don't think Mrs Van den Hul wants to say that either. We will never say anywhere that Myanmar is a paradise; on the contrary, I have made it very clear that all horrible things are happening there. Then we need to use what we can use to make the situation there better, and not worse. What can we do to make the situation better? Political pressure, helping the victims. We don't have to come up with actions to make the situation worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u17	I just want to make sure I understand. Does Mr Koopmans say to Mrs Van den Hul: I want to maintain trade, because that benefits the people, but I want to stop aid, because that benefits the government? Is that roughly the VVD's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u18	No, that would be a simplification. I would like to repeat our position, but perhaps that is not necessary for Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u19	I am glad that this is a simplification, but I did hear that the answer was that we should not get to economic cooperation because it would also affect the population and would not help the victims, but that we could do something about it, because it would only help the government. That may be a simplification, but this is perhaps the time for Mr Koopmans to answer Mrs van den Hul's question again. What have we perhaps misunderstood so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u20	We want to help the victims; that is what we want to do. We want maximum pressure on the Government of Myanmar in such a way that it helps the people in Myanmar most. That's what we want. I think that's what we all want. Then the question is how we are going to achieve that best. Then I say, also in the direction of Mrs van den Hul: we are not going to achieve that by reducing the number of jobs and making no income. So let's not do that. Of course, we should not promote Myanmar as paradise, but nobody does. The situation there is horrible, but then it is good if we can contribute to local development. Then what do we want with development aid? Insofar as aid goes through the European Union to a country like Myanmar, it gives us the opportunity to build roads, for example, but also to talk to that government. If we then build roads, we have a limited budget, we can build them in Myanmar, but they do not respect human rights. Then we can say: if you do not do so, we will build those roads in another country where they also need roads and where they do respect human rights. Then the government in Myanmar might think: gosh, if we want to have those roads, we may need to step up our commitment to human rights. That is exactly what we want to achieve. That's the effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u21	I would like to put a question to Mr Koopmans. Suppose we are in the terrible situation that our government is killing us because we have dark hair, blond hair or whatever, and the international community is helping us with emergency aid. Would it make you happy when a politician in another country would say: but we should condition that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u22	I didn't say that at all. Fortunately, that situation does not apply here; our government does not want to kill us. But if that were the case, then, of course, emergency aid must be provided from all sides. If people are hungry, I am very happy that the Netherlands is helping to feed those people. If there is a disaster somewhere, the VVD is very happy that we are helping people, regardless of whether we are politically in agreement with that country or with the victims. But that's something other than maximizing the usefulness of helping you out there. That is not the case with emergency aid. I was just talking about road construction, for example. We only have a limited budget for these roads. The European Union also has a limited budget for this. Let us use it not only to build roads, but also to put political pressure on these governments to do what we want, namely not to cause casualties. There we all agree, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u23	Then I would like to see, in second place, a motion or otherwise a concrete proposal from Mr Koopmans of the concrete parts. I am not aware that roads are being built in Myanmar. I would like to see Mr Koopmans on our side to conditioning the economic relationship the other way round, because it was normalized and cited because the country was making progress, including in the field of human rights. Now there has most probably been genocide, and I cannot imagine that it is also the VVD in that case to do the economy and the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u24	This is, of course, a completely wrong idea. This is not about the economy. We are concerned here with helping the victims and helping the people of Myanmar. How can we achieve that? By exerting maximum political pressure, by providing aid in humanitarian situations, and also by ensuring that, as far as we can, people actually have a job there and that they can earn their money. If we can contribute to that, I'd love to. Then, of course, it is very strange that Mrs Karabulut is actually turning it around. She says, no, we shouldn't do anything to make people money there. But when it comes to providing aid, something that we can use flexibly, we must not ask any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mrs. Karabulut may respond for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u26	The Myanmari government depends on the economic relationship with other countries. In other words, you legitimize a government. Those Myanmari people, the Rohingya and other minorities are no use to those jobs of Mr. Koopmans if they are killed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u27	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u28	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u29	Absolutely, and that is why we want to help the victims as much as possible and we want the people there to have an economy that they can live on. In the meantime, we want to put maximum pressure on the Government of Myanmar so that these human rights violations do not take place there. One of these means of political pressure is mobile development aid, development aid that can also benefit people in other countries. Let us use them to exert political pressure. Then it would be very nice if Mrs Karabulut could join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u30	There is a right to exchange views on development aid and economic sanctions. Let us be clear that DENK is on the side of economic sanctions and not of stopping development cooperation. But this debate is about persecuting Myanmar's military summit. As Mr Koopmans rightly pointed out, we have been talking long enough about the issues that have just been mentioned. What we could do is we'd explore the road further where it's about persecuting the military summit. One of these is the establishment of a special tribunal with like-minded countries that exert pressure on the UN Security Council, on like-minded countries, on Myanmar. Is the VVD willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u31	The VVD has declared itself in favour of prosecuting these suspected criminals by the International Criminal Court. It's horrible things that happened there. That's what the Criminal Court was set up for, and it's right next door. We'll be able to keep an eye on how that trial goes. We have to be realistic. We shouldn't all be building up other new things that don't have a chance of success. Let's see how we can actually contribute, let's see how we can actually exert pressure. But I think that Mr Kuzu and I may exceptionally agree that we want to do everything we can to ensure that these criminals are punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u32	Yes, and then we need to be concrete. Because if the VVD also stands for continuing the army top, then the VVD also knows very well that some routes are currently blocked. The road to the International Criminal Court is blocked because Myanmar is not a party because they have not signed the Statute of Rome. What is a possibility is to argue for a special tribunal such as we did in the Chamber a while ago for the prosecution of Daesh and IS fighters. The VVD was a co-signatory. Is the VVD willing to explore such a route? That would be as promising as the story of the Daesh route that we all want to pursue. Is the VVD prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u33	I think I can make Mr Kuzu even happier than he already is. The fact that a country is not party to the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court does not mean that people cannot be prosecuted there. I would remind Mr Kuzu of the persecution of former President Al-Bashir of Sudan. Sudan is not a party, but it can still be prosecuted. Certainly, there are still a lot of steps to be taken, but it can be done, I say, in the direction of Mr Kuzu. But the VVD also sees the problem that Mr Kuzu would like to point out. There are a lot of blockades in the UN Security Council; China and Russia will block that. But that same blockade also exists for the tribunal he is talking about now, unless he has a brilliant new plan that I am not yet aware of. I'd love to hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u34	Fine. Were you done with your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van den Hul of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Chairman. Since the last time the Chamber talked about Myanmar, there has unfortunately been no progress. On the contrary, things are only getting worse. People are being chased away, persecuted or even murdered. Women and girls are widely raped by military forces. Rohingya refugees cannot safely return and are still in overcrowded refugee camps as the rainy season approaches. And journalists are stuck without any form of fair trial. At the same time, to our great surprise, we read jubilations from the Ministry of LNV, the FMO and Nuffic about the great opportunities that exist in Myanmar. Web sites talk about excellent opportunities and there is no mention of human rights violations, let alone genocide. In fact, it is recommended that, above all, and I quote, 'as far as possible avoid political issues'. How does the Netherlands use cooperation in the field of trade and agriculture to really improve the human rights situation? What conditions does the Netherlands impose on this cooperation? Are the priorities of this cabinet in order, I wonder. Or is the earning model here again above human rights? In other words, who's really gonna get better? During membership of the UN Security Council, the Netherlands attended the briefing of the UN Fact-Finding Mission. Did Myanmar's contribution to that briefing vote for the Minister with hope or disappointment? Recently, the update of the Fact-Finding Mission has appeared. Can the Minister respond to this March update this year? What about its consequences for cooperation with Myanmar? Can the Minister also comment on the recent ICC investigation mission? Finally, Mr President. The EU also has a trade relationship with Myanmar. The Netherlands wants the EU to continue to look strategically at all the instruments at its disposal. What instruments are those? How can these be used to really end the violence in Myanmar? When the Minister writes that addressing countries contributes to our credibility when we stand up for human rights outside Europe, there are concrete actions in relation to the PvdA. After all, if you say a, you have to say b. What follow-up does the Minister see in concrete terms, in addition to addressing the human rights situation in the UN Human Rights Council or conveying our concerns? What is the status of the sanction regime against perpetrators of violence against women in conflict situations? How does the Minister view a possible prosecution by the ICC? Because without justice, no peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Roon of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation in Myanmar is complex, and since its establishment in 1948 it has been uneasy. Ethnic and religious groups fought and fought each other out of the tent, resulting in terrible human dramas. For example, last year the UN researchers concluded that Myanmar's army committed crimes against humanity on a large scale. The crimes committed in Myanmar are even similar to cases where genocidal intent could be identified, according to the UN researchers. That's a hell of a conclusion. The question is whether it is also a justified conclusion at the moment. The question for the Minister then is to what extent he shares the position of those UN researchers, that there is genocidal intention. Previously, because of this situation in Myanmar, the Chamber was informed by the Cabinet that it will only recognise genocide if there is a binding UN resolution or a ruling from an international court. For genocide there is a very high burden of proof, was added by the cabinet. That is why I would like to know from the Minister whether this UN report meets those conditions. In any case, the PVV is questioning this, especially the point of intention. It is clear that the army wanted to drive away all that Rohingya, but you can question whether it was intended to kill them as a whole. Moreover, it is also true that the report is largely based on witness statements, because on-the-spot investigations were not possible. An on-the-spot investigation would, of course, be highly desirable. Nevertheless, it seems that the Myanmar army has used unacceptable violence against the civilian population. The PVV can understand that an army is acting against extremists, but that must never lead to excesses against the civilian population, and that cannot be justified in this case either. Even if military intervention may have been provoked by militants, the civilian population must never be subjected to retaliatory measures. That is why we can support the sanctions imposed against some of Myanmar's senior military and police officers. However, in view of the complex situation in Myanmar, I ask the government to keep an open mind on all facts and on violence from all angles. The latter is a bit lacking in the UN report. Although there is a series of attacks by militants at government posts in August 2017, this is more or less suggested as if the attacks were carried out by peasants with sticks and knives. However, we know that Muslim militias in Myanmar have also driven away tens of thousands of people, namely Buddhists and Hindus. We also know that those Islamic militants were trained and trained by Rohingya who lived in Saudi Arabia in a guerrilla war. So these aren't peasants, they're hardened warriors. Their actions should also be investigated and, where necessary, strongly condemned. I heard the colleague of the VVD speak about the cessation of development aid to Myanmar. That is development aid that runs through the EU. The PVV can support this, but of course we do not share the idea that this money should be spent in other developing countries. We prefer it to come back to taxpayers in the Netherlands. Finally, political pressure on Myanmar. There would be a lot to say for that, but we have no leverage for that. If political pressure is to be exerted on Myanmar, this will have to be done, in particular, by China and, to a lesser extent, by India. My final question to the Minister is whether he sees opportunities to get those countries to exert political pressure on Myanmar to normalise the situation and prosecute those who deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. The Minister has asked for a ten-minute reflection period. But the stands are so flooded, they crave the Minister's answer. So I hope he wants to keep it a little shorter so he can answer quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for the debate is the UN report on the very worrying situation in Myanmar. The United Nations report was, of course, on top of the many signals that we already had and which led the Netherlands to draw attention to the situation in Myanmar during our membership of the UN Security Council last year. The Netherlands was one of the gangmakers behind the Fact-Finding Mission. I myself, in parallel with a visit to the UN Security Council, spoke with the participants in the Fact-Finding Mission. From their mouths I immediately heard the very poignant stories about the great abuses that are being raised there. This leads to the Netherlands constantly calling for attention in all possible areas, multilaterally as in the United Nations and in the European Union, but also in direct contacts, to the great suffering in Myanmar and the great suffering of refugees in Bangladesh. This is done in direct contact with Myanmar. Mr Kaag was there last year and spoke to the army leader. She also visited the refugee camp in Bangladesh. I myself spoke with Myanmari Minister Kyaw Tin at the EU-ASEAN Summit. That's when I transferred my deep concerns. Also during the discussion with my Chinese colleague, because of the great influence that China has on Myanmar, I specifically asked China to contribute to the end of the very poignant situation that is being discussed there. In addition, EU-targeted trade sanctions have been launched. And at the end of last year we also had a debate on this subject and a motion of this kind, I thought, was adopted by Mr Sjoerdsma. As a result, these sanctions, aimed at top figures from the regime in Myanmar, have been extended further. By the way, the Chamber also knows that it is a broader Dutch commitment to create an EU human rights sanction toolbox that could also be used for situations like this. The stakes are high, but I agree with the House that unfortunately we are not seeing enough progress for a number of reasons, which I will also address in response to various questions. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Kuzu asked about the evidence collection mechanism. This was a special joint action by the European Union, together with the organisation of Islamic countries. The Netherlands has made an important contribution to this, including financially. So that evidence collection mechanism is now in place. This must, of course, lead to trial in the end. Mr Van Ojik asked who could play a part in this. Indeed, the International Court of Justice can play a role in this. To this end, a resolution was also adopted in March 2019, tabled by the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation, which calls on the Court of Justice to take steps to deal with human rights violations against the Rohingya in that Court. The International Criminal Court has also started a preliminary investigation because they see points of reference for this. I got the question of what I'm up against. Of course, it is not appropriate for a minister to deal with actions of a criminal court in substance, but we have set up the Criminal Court to act where there are serious abuses that are not otherwise tried. It is therefore very logical that the Criminal Court should take its role here. Mr Kuzu asked about the possibility of an ad hoc tribunal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u43	One more question from Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yeah, maybe a little bit more on the International Court of Justice. I thought the Minister said that a number of countries have called on the Court of Justice to prosecute. Could the Netherlands be a country that joins the countries that have apparently already asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u45	For me, the question is whether that helps. I want to come back to that. I think it is an important signal in itself from the organisation of Islamic countries, which, of course, have consciously done so together. So I would like to return to that possibility, because you know that I prefer to operate in a coalition context. It will therefore rather be an EU action or an even wider action. I want to come back to that because I don't know from my head if that's ever been explored. Mr Kuzu asked about the possibility of an ad hoc tribunal. He also referred to a similar wish that lives on the trial of ISIS fighters in Syria. A tribunal requires a legal basis. It is granted by the United Nations Security Council if it has been granted. It would be my deepest wish for that legal basis to be established, but as the Chamber also knows, Russia and China have not always been lovers of international tribunals, nor have the United States. So they will not give that mandate. The Netherlands is, of course, one of the champions of international law and cannot suggest that there would be a detour, in which a kind of court of opportunity would be set up. Ms Karabulut asked what the EU could do. I have already indicated that the targeted sanctions have been extended very recently. The European Commission is looking at the tariff exemption that Myanmar, like other low-income countries, has for "everything but arms": all goods that are not weapons. The European Commission is considering whether that exemption should be withdrawn. The question was how the Dutch government stood in this regard. I have already expressed my position on this in previous consultations and is actually shared by all the other European countries. I believe that sanctions should be targeted: they should be directed at the people responsible. If you target entire countries, businesses or industries with sanctions, you are sure that the thousands of people who often earn a living there, and who have nothing to do with the abuses that are taking place there, will also be affected. Targeted sanctions in the case of Myanmar therefore have my full support. I believe that sanctions which also affect the ordinary population are unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u46	Those sanctions have been imposed by the EU against those responsible for the crimes in Myanmar. My question to the Minister was also: does that list correspond to the UN list and other investigations that have identified who is responsible for the crimes? Does the EU list correspond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u47	I can't control that so quickly. I'd like to have that done, but that's really asking for lists to be ticked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'd really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u49	I shall come back to that in writing. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether a UN mission was possible. That possibility has indeed been examined, including in connection with the motion tabled by Mrs Ploumen last year. Unfortunately, we are opposed to the lack of cooperation of the Government of Myanmar. For a UN mission, there are actually two routes. One is with the agreement of the country in question, but the UN does not get it in this case. The other option is a peacekeeping mission based on Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, but that requires a UN Security Council resolution, and then we run into the same countries that do not agree. Unfortunately, therefore, it is not possible at the moment to organise a UN mission that has real access. Mr Van Ojik asks whether the Netherlands is prepared to continue to exert that pressure. Sure. We played a leading role in this during our membership of the Security Council. We're gonna keep doing that. I have already indicated to you that I was able to discuss this on two occasions at EU level: at the ASEAN meeting I had a bilateral discussion with the Burmese Minister, but also during the visit of the Chinese Foreign Minister to the EU Foreign Affairs Council, I put Myanmar on the agenda, and I am well aware of this in the presence of a number of other European countries. As long as this is necessary, and unfortunately this is the case, we shall continue to exert this pressure. However, as has been said, we are faced with a very persistent regime in Myanmar itself and equally consistently persistent support from China in particular, but also Russia, when it comes to non-application of international law. It's very intricate, but it's a reality we're dealing with. The only task then is to continue and stand up for a cause that is ultimately good. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Karabulut specifically addressed the position of the two Reutersjournalists. Indeed, it is very intricate what happened there. Journalists do socially incredibly useful work and therefore often find themselves in a vulnerable position. The grounds on which these journalists were tried and imprisoned are very dubious. We transferred that great concern bilaterally. We have also transferred this at EU level. The Dutch embassy in Yangon was also present at the court hearings that took place. Around the Myanmari New Year, which happens to be today, many people are being released. That is true, but unfortunately both journalists are not among them today. So here too, the Netherlands will continue to press bilaterally and at EU level for the release of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u50	I can only encourage that. I think it's unlikelyly important. I saw myself that many people have been pardoned today, but I also saw the comma that people are still being screened. So perhaps the Netherlands and other European countries could also put the pressure on that screening could include these two journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u51	Sure. Overall, the scope for journalists and civil society in Myanmar is very limited. Both topics are also spearheads of the Dutch commitment and of my personal commitment. So that's what we're still committed to. Mrs Van den Hul asked about the economic relations between the Netherlands and Myanmar. I have indicated that in the interests of the Myanmarese who have to earn a living, I do not think it is wise to end economic relations all the way by sector or by company. I have indicated that I do believe in sanctions aimed at those in power in a country like Myanmar. There are indeed Dutch companies operating in Myanmar. They also receive support, such as Dutch companies abroad, which are often provided by the RVO. Each RVO project is subject to a test on international corporate social responsibility, including human rights. Along this route it is ensured that the projects supported are also justified. In addition, the European Union is indeed supporting projects. That's what the VVD went into. The balance is again that such projects benefit the ordinary population and that ending these projects would have consequences for people who are not part of the abuses that are taking place. The government therefore does not intend to move the EU to a different direction either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u52	I hear the Minister say that our great concerns about gross human rights violations can very well go hand in hand with investments by the Dutch business community in Myanmar. In this context, I would like to ask him something about the provision of information. I've been talking about a number of sites for a while. I have here Agromessage Abroad that reports that there is a market potential similar to that of California. Nuffic even says "the government is making efforts to end poor conflicts" and "undertake national reconciliation." I think that is very optimistic. The RVO talks about doing business in Myanmar and says: don't talk about politics. Does the Minister believe that at the moment entrepreneurs, potential investors and students are really being informed fairly about the human rights risks in Myanmar?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mrs van den Hul can imagine that I do not personally read all the websites that make public institutions and other ministries. I do know that, as I indicated, I am in favour of targeted sanctions, but not of total blockades. They do enormous damage to ordinary people. So it doesn't surprise me that the RVO also provides support in doing business with Myanmar. I know, however, that every specific project is subject to the test of corporate social responsibility. But if you really want to go into the exact texts on the websites of the various government organisations, I would ask you to do so through the relevant ministry, because I really cannot read every website in the field of education or business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u54	Of course, I am not asking the Minister to do that either. What I ask is: does the Dutch government take responsibility for that good, fair and complete information provision to potential students and investors? I actually hear the Minister say that the answer is no. But then my follow-up question is: can the Minister guarantee that Dutch investment at the moment will not benefit potential human rights violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u55	If you put it that generally, I can't just guarantee it. Of course, I cannot judge who has interests in which organisation in Myanmar. I can judge whether an organisation such as the RVO carries out a thorough human rights test on the projects it carries out. But that's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u56	Is the Minister prepared to impose targeted sanctions against companies that are demonstrably related to the Myanmari army? If no, that is the answer that I am tasting from the Minister, how can he insist on the one hand that the summit of the Myanmari army should be prosecuted, but on the other hand that the money tap should not be shut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u57	This is exactly the kind of discussion we had six months ago, along exactly the same line as the one I have just mentioned. I am in favour of targeted sanctions aimed at individuals. Mr Kuzu is undoubtedly right in saying that such a company may be in the hands of someone who should have been in court. It may own a company like this, but thousands of people can work there. The result of a sanction against the company is therefore not against that person, because that is what you and I agree that you are hitting thousands of people. That's a price I wouldn't pay. But we've had that discussion before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yeah, and that's why I'm so sorry we didn't get anywhere in the discussion six months later. For all the questions that are asked are then blocked: the UN Security Council cannot be entirely political... et cetera, et cetera. But this is something you can do specifically, because this is blood money. We're funding blood money, killing people. Then we all express our indignation at what is happening there. But we're not dealing with the source of that evil. This simply means targeted sanctions against companies that baked the Myanmari army. If we're not willing to do that, I think you're squeezing your eyes for what's going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u59	Unfortunately, Mr Kuzu did not go into the point I made, namely the balance between the work for thousands of simple Myanmarese and indeed the very incorruptible situation that business owners may be involved in human rights violations. But that does not suddenly remove the question of how to deal with those thousands of jobs for ordinary Myanmaris. It would be nice if Mr Kuzu also went into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u60	I would very much like to comment on that. It is a trade-off that needs to be made, but if I see on the one hand that perhaps a thousand people could lose their jobs in Myanmar and on the other hand that hundreds of thousands of people are being murdered, that women are being raped and that children are being killed, then my choice is clear. All we need is the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u61	I am also clear about this, because if we were to end these human rights violations by letting thousands of people lose their jobs, so if that link could be made that way, it would be a real consideration. But that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u62	Let's zoom out. The European Union, including the Netherlands, decided a few years ago, before this genocide took place, to strengthen relations with Myanmar, including economic relations. Does the Minister think that the horrendous genocide on a part of its own population, the expulsion of the population, the rapes and so on is a reason why we should at least freeze the intensification and strengthening of relations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u63	I believe that this is a reason for imposing targeted sanctions. I think that's a reason to do everything in my power to bring those perpetrators to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u64	So the answer is no. The Minister does not think that this is a reason to freeze the intensification. Then my follow-up question would be: why? Why is the economy, why is the profits of companies doing business with Myanmar excluded from the framework by which we want to prevent people from being massacred by their own government? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mrs Karabulut is trying to create the same contradiction as Mr Kuzu. This contradiction ignores the fact that thousands of ordinary Myanmaris have a job because they can trade with the European Union. Those are very ordinary people who can do their shopping every day because they have a job. If you stopped those trade relations, thousands of ordinary Myanmaris would lose their jobs. If you still had the guarantee that the terrible abuses that are taking place would end, it would still be a plausible argument, but there is no guarantee at all. That is why, despite the opposition of China and Russia in particular, I choose the path of targeted sanctions, which continue to push for international trial in all possible ways. I don't choose to hit thousands of innocent Myanmaris.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u66	The Minister is an ordinary person. I'm an ordinary person. Myanmarese are ordinary people. All over the world ordinary people live. My question was not at all to hit those ordinary people or to stop the trade. My question was quite a different one, but the Minister refuses to answer it. Why should we not say at this moment, given the horrible genocide that has taken place and the findings of the UN report, that we are not doing so? Next, we say that in the future we want to do business again or to re-establish these relations, but on the condition that we try to prosecute those in the army who are responsible for these murders, that Myanmar joins the International Criminal Court and that it cooperates to protect those ordinary people from these criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u67	We all agree on the latter. Then it helps when Mrs Karabulut explains what she means by "putting on hold." There's a trade going on right now. How do you put trade on hold?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u68	I ask the Minister: is the process of intensifying the relationship decided by the EU a few years ago now stopped? If that is stopped, does the Minister agree with me that this should be conditioned for the future? Then you come to the Minister's points of view, that you must now apply targeted sanctions. So my question is: is this process of intensification and strengthening relations now stopped and is that conditioned for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u69	That's the same question. What do you mean, "silent hedges"? There's a trade going on. Development aid is also provided. What do you mean, shut down? That trade or development aid is being shut down? The question is simply not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u70	That question has just been asked. We are now going to listen to Mrs Karabulut for the fifth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u71	The question is very clear. A number of years ago, for this lynching, the EU decided to tighten up its ties and increase its trade. Does the Minister agree with me that this process needs to be stopped and that we are not going to trade anymore, but that we are going to condition that trade? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u72	Then my question is as follows. There are now sales from Myanmar to the Netherlands or to the EU. What do you mean, shut down? That those sales stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u73	That at least we are not going to trade anymore and that we are going to attach conditions to our trade relationship. I can't say any more clearly. We must make it conditional on them participating in the trial of the criminals. We must make sure that the population is protected. We must make sure that they participate in the International Criminal Court. Such conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mrs Karabulut is really confusing a number of things. There's a trade going on. There is a company in Myanmar that exports to the European Union. So it sells to a company in the European Union. That company in the European Union does not impose any conditions on the trial of those in power in Myanmar, because that is not what the selling party in Myanmar is about. So Mrs Karabulut makes a suggestion that has nothing to do with reality in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u75	Okay, I think that's obvious. We're going to see Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u76	In my view, we do have a variety of ideas about where a minister's responsibility begins and ends. Indeed, I say to Mrs Karabulut, Minister Kaag has been there himself. I shall go back to the commitment to the UN Security Council, which the Minister himself referred to. I would like to compliment our representatives there. That commitment there was indeed idealistic and it was also very clear about the condemnation of the regime in Myanmar. The Netherlands stated that the report convincingly shows that the most serious crimes have been committed, that the international community must act, that we should not count on Myanmar and that the International Criminal Court should investigate. Well, there's a lot to be said about that. In the light of this, I ask the Minister how this relates to the responsibility of the Dutch business community and the Dutch government, which finances and facilitates that Dutch business. Does the Minister really think that we can do quiet and unconditional business with potential perpetrators of genocide or companies that maintain that regime? Or does the Minister think that we should at last express ourselves and that the responsibility, as Mrs Karabulut has just suggested, does indeed extend beyond lip service?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u77	My question to Mrs van den Hul is what she really means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u78	I would like to ask the Minister not to keep asking the Members of Parliament questions. If they are not sufficiently clear to the Minister, the Minister must...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u79	That's it. The question is: what does Mrs Van den Hul mean? I have indicated what sanctions we have put in place and how we have been thanking the UN Security Council for its compliments and will continue to use us, even though we are no longer members of the UN Security Council. Mrs van den Hul asks for more, but does not make it clear what she means and that makes it impossible to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u80	In conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u81	We're really going in circles here. For me, Mrs Karabulut has made it very clear what she meant, and I am now making it very clear. I find it very strange. The involvement of the Netherlands in the UN Security Council does not change anything: terrible violations of human rights call for further steps, for disapproval and also for international action. The international community is called upon to act. I ask the Minister how this relates to unconditional support for the Dutch industry that invests there. The Minister says 'that question is not clear', but I think that question is very clear. I already put it in my input: who is really gonna get better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u82	It's been changed a number of times. The Netherlands has supported a boycott of individuals at EU level, because they are really pulling the strings. You want to hit that one. The Netherlands does not support other European countries, nor does it support a boycott aimed at whole companies. That's probably what you're referring to. You don't say it, so I'll have to interpret it. That's probably what you're referring to. If that is not the case, then the question remains what you are referring to. The reason why I don't support that is, I think, a ten-time exchange is that this affects thousands of Myanmarese. I assume you meant this, because you're not coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u83	I'd like to see if we can get to the same point. The problem is, I believe, that the sanctions currently in place and referred to by the Minister do not work or do not work sufficiently. I think we all agree on that. The instruments we are using now are not enough. Then we will look for any additional measures, such as the withdrawal of trade preferences. I think that is very concrete. Myanmar enjoys a number of trade advantages. We could move that in. It's possible. Then the Minister says: I don't want to, because that costs people jobs. Of course, we have experience with sanctions, for example with regard to Iran, Venezuela or Russia. In doing so, we are trying to exert pressure with economic instruments, without having to deal with ordinary people in the words of the Minister. Could that possibly be an example for Myanmar?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u84	Sure, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u85	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u86	With regard to the countries I have just mentioned, I believe that we are also doing so by using economic instruments. I think Iran is a very clear example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u87	In Venezuela, we apply personal sanctions. We regularly have the same debate on this subject, in which the Netherlands is for personalised instruments. In Iran, we have recently declared personal sanctions. So we are really very consistent in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u88	Okay, the minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u89	I came to the end of the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u90	Have you reached the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. At least that is the case with Mr Kuzu. He has a third of his speaking time from his first term, or one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr. Chairman. What personal sanctions did the Minister apply to Myanmar in this case? That is the first question. Furthermore, I have a number of motions. I'll see how far I can get with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that researchers of the United Nations independent fact-finding mission have concluded that the Myanmar military summit should be investigated and prosecuted on suspicion of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes against the Rohingya;]] [[believes that crimes against humanity should never go unpunished;]] [[calls on the Government to secure continued international support for a Security Council referral of the crimes against the Rohingya in Myanmar to the International Criminal Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that researchers of the United Nations independent fact-finding mission have concluded that the Myanmar military summit should be investigated and prosecuted on suspicion of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes against the Rohingya;]] [[believes that it is important to stop the economic structures that enable the Myanmari army to enrich itself and continue its malicious activities;]] [[calls on the Government to provide international support for international sanctions, such as freezing funds and prohibiting cooperation, against economic entities that are demonstrably related to the Myanmari army, such as Myanmar Economic Corporation and Myanmar Economic Holdings Limited,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-233]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr. Chairman. One final motion, if I may. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that researchers of the United Nations independent fact-finding mission have concluded that the Myanmar military summit should be investigated and prosecuted on suspicion of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes against the Rohingya;]] [[calls on the Government to seek international support for stricter international sanctions towards the Myanmari army and the Government of Myanmar until all atrocities against the Rohingya have stopped and Myanmar cooperates in prosecuting those responsible for the crimes against the Rohingya,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u95	If I were to ask you to read me another motion, do you think I'm overdoing it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u96	It is in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. I believe that today was above all a debate full of frustration about everything that cannot be done, that cannot succeed and that there is no majority in favour of it. I am not talking about this house, but about what is happening in the Security Council and what is happening elsewhere in the world. We would all like to see this situation before the Court today rather than tomorrow. We would like to see the violence ending earlier today than tomorrow and the victims and their families getting the justice they deserve, but I think the Minister has explained in an annoying way that does not refer to the way he did it, but to the way in which it is actually regulated in the world at the moment, and has also explained that this is not going to happen for the time being. I would like to ask the Minister one more question about the application of precise pressure. Should we not extend this personal sanctioning list of the European Union, and I have tabled a motion on it earlier, so long as that violence is taking place? In other words, as long as the violence continues to spread as a sort of automatism that makes you do it almost every month so that the power holders also know that these sanctions will not stop, that they will only increase and that there will be a time when they will have to stop that violence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you. Then Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Minister when he can send us the information on whether the people on the EU penalty list correspond to those identified as criminals by the UN and in other investigations. In this letter, the Minister may be able to explain what his trade policy looks like, when the preferential positions of companies disappear and if he is prepared to condition that relationship in the future and commit himself to it at EU level. I don't know, but it seems to me that if you stand up for the ordinary people, you have to condition the economic relationship that the regime depends on. You can't look away from genocide and serious crimes and rapes. That economic relationship is an important toolbox that you cannot just go on with as if nothing has happened. Then there's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that two journalists reporting the mass murder of Rohingya, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, were sentenced to years of imprisonment following false charges and an unfair trial by Myanmar;]] [[Notes that human rights organisations, such as Amnesty International, are calling for their immediate release;]] [[calls on the Government to call for the immediate release of Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister. In February, the European Commission launched a procedure against Cambodia to remove the trade preferences enjoyed by Cambodia. So it's possible. We could do the same in the case of Myanmar, as we also have economic sanctions against countries such as Iran and Russia. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU has already imposed targeted sanctions against individual generals of the Myanmari army;]] [[Considering that the Myanmari army continues to commit atrocities against minorities;]] [[calls on the Government to look within the EU for opportunities to withdraw trade benefits granted to Myanmar for specific sectors without harming the poorest parts of the population,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u103	My second motion concerns the matter which the Minister said he would come back to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the crimes committed against the Rohingya in Myanmar call for trial;]] [[Whereas the prosecution of individual generals in the International Criminal Court is hampered by veto votes in the UN Security Council;]] [[Considering that several specialists claim that the Myanmari State may be charged with violating the Genocide Convention at the International Court of Justice;]] [[calls on the Government, together with like-minded countries, to investigate the possibility of a complaint against Myanmar in the International Court of Justice and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I think it is quite clear that we all think that what is happening in Myanmar is horrible and that we must put maximum pressure on it. I have heard that we have different opinions here on what is realistic, but I would like to put the following first. Let us do what is realistic and feasible. As a chamber, we can add a form of unity to this. Let us not let ourselves be separated. Let us not look for things that divide us, but let us give one strong message, namely that we cannot. Then I think I can also get the support of my colleagues on the point I mentioned and that I have not heard so much from others, namely the situation in Bangladesh. Many refugees are now being received, but according to reports they are not always very well received. It is also important that, on the one hand, we support there so that reception is good and, on the other hand, we continue to exert pressure, as far as possible, through the EU and the UN, so that the government in Bangladesh can actually help those Rohingya refugees. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you. Then there is Mrs van den Hul from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister had some difficulty understanding the question put by some of my colleagues and myself, so I hope that the next motion will help. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the human rights situation in Myanmar is unabated;]] [[noting that the Dutch government is cooperating with Myanmar's regime, including in the fields of agriculture and education;]] [[calls on the Government to link conditions to all co-operations with Myanmar that make a concrete contribution to improving the human rights situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u107	And my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the provision of information to companies and students on the situation in Myanmar is very one-sided;]] [[considers that information on Myanmar should be complete so that companies and students can balance and be aware of the situation there;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly appoint the human rights situation in all information it provides on cooperation with Myanmar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Kuzu and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr President, thank you very much. I understand the Minister's answer that he believes with me that the West has little leverage to encourage Myanmar to behave better and to try those responsible for serious crimes. Those countries that may have that leverage, such as China, Russia and India, refuse to exercise it. In this respect, the outlook is very unfavourable. Now perhaps there is still a bright spot to report, because I have just read that the President of Myanmar has today ordered the release of 9.353 people. It's not clear to me who these people are. Maybe the minister knows something about it. Would there be political prisoners among them? Maybe those two reporters? Perhaps the Minister can answer that today, and if he cannot, perhaps in writing at a later date. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. I'm gonna suspend for one or two minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u110	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu asked what sanctions had been imposed. There are seven people, seven members of the Myanmar regime on the first sanction list of the European Union and another seven on the recently adopted list. So right now, we're talking about a total of 14 people. Mrs Karabulut asked if that list overlaps with the list of the Fact-Finding Mission of the United Nations. That is the case, with the exception of the two highest officials of the Myanmari army. The EU has chosen not to place them on the penalty list in order to hold them as a negotiating point in international negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u112	They were just asked in the public gallery why those MPs are on their phones. Yes, I did take the penalty list. Min Aung Hliang, the Chief General of the Myanmari Army, is not on the penalty list. So if the Minister says that we are imposing targeted sanctions against targeted persons and the source, the cause, the highest officer, the highest general is not on the list, then my question to the Minister is whether he can still take himself seriously when it comes to personal actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Kuzu sounds a little indignant, but he repeats what I just said. The two highest military forces in Myanmar were not listed by the EU to keep them as negotiating partners. That's what happened to Maduro in Venezuela. This is a very classic consideration when applying sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u114	Perhaps the comparison is flawed and I fully understand that, but think of the self-proclaimed caliph. We're not gonna use them as a negotiating partner, are we? What is this bullshit? The highest general is not on the list. I ask the Minister again: can he take himself seriously if the highest officer, the highest general, is not on his personal list of sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u115	This is very much a repetition of moves. It is not unusual in international sanctions that the highest leader of a country is not on that list because that's the one you're talking to. So here it is for the highest leader and his deputy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u116	The highest leader is the president there, and that's not a general or anything. Why wouldn't you want to negotiate with the elected president instead of a self-proclaimed general?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Kuzu is now a little out of the discussion. Mr Kuzu knows that there are abuses in Myanmar because of the very invigorating role played by the army there. If it wasn't, we wouldn't be standing here right now, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u118	All right, so the EU has decided not to include the two main leaders on the EU sanctions list. What was the official position of the Minister of the Dutch Government? Did they object to this, or does the Minister agree with this line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u119	I have indicated that this is common practice in this type of sanctions. The Netherlands also thinks that this is a logical commitment. In the end, you want a solution to the problem. So, more often in these situations, it is chosen to give the supreme leaders the space to come to the negotiating table somewhere and to place the immediate surroundings on the penalty list. That's how it's done in Myanmar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u120	So the Minister agrees that these senior officials are not on it now? The Minister says that the negotiations are therefore under way. What is the use of these negotiations? How long are these negotiations going and what should the Minister say about the outcome of these negotiations? In other words, when will these people be on the list?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mrs Karabulut knows very well that we have been talking about this all afternoon and that it is the full commitment of the Netherlands, of the European Union, to bring the military leaders who actually have power in Myanmar to the negotiating table with the United Nations. This is not possible for the reasons that we all regret and which we discussed extensively this afternoon, but it is naive to call in the Dutch House of Representatives: what does the Minister think is the date on which that happens? We all want it to happen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u122	The Minister is continuing. We're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the list of sanctions could be extended. He also mentions some sort of automatism. As Mr Sjoerdsma knows, I am generally in favour of the widespread use by the European Union of the sanction instrument where it is effective. It would go too far to suggest that there could be an automatism in there. Of course, you must select the people you put on that list in such a way that they come on that list on just grounds. But if there is any reason to do so, I am certainly prepared to argue for the extension of that list. Then I come to Mr Kuzu's motions together with Mrs Van den Hul. In the first motion, in part No. 233, they call on the government to seek continued international support for a Security Council referral of the crimes against the Rohingya in Myanmar to the International Criminal Court. We are in agreement there, so I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. The second motion, in part No. 234 by Mr Kuzu and Mrs Van den Hul, the government calls for international support for international sanctions, such as the freezing of funds and the prohibition of cooperation with economic entities that are demonstrably linked to the Myanmari army, such as Myanmar Economic Corporation and Myanmar Economic Holdings. Since this motion calls for entire organizations to be targeted by sanctions, leading to the work of thousands of Myranmares, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u124	I had another question on the first motion. It calls for continued international support for a Security Council referral to the International Criminal Court. The Minister says, if I have heard him correctly, that we are already doing so, and then he leaves it to the House's discretion. Perhaps the Minister does not mean to say that this policy is standing and therefore superfluous, or does he have another assessment of it? Is there something more in it than what we're doing right now, and does that mean that we need to get a different judgment now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u125	There's nothing more in it than what we're doing right now, so that's why I'd like to leave the motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u126	Then the motion to part No. 235.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u127	That's the motion in part No. It is also Mr Kuzu and Mrs Van den Hul. It calls on the government to seek international support for stricter international sanctions towards the Myanmari army and the government until all atrocities against the Rohingya have stopped and Myanmar cooperates in prosecuting those responsible for the crimes. This motion, too, is so broad that it can affect the jobs of thousands of Myanmarese, so I must also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 236 by Mrs Karabulut, Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Van Ojik, on the position of the two Reuters journalists, and also calls for the immediate release of Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo. That too is a support for the cabinet's efforts, so I leave it to the House to decide. The motion in part No. Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Kuzu asked the government to look within the EU for opportunities to withdraw trade benefits granted to Myanmar for specific sectors without harming the poorest sections of the population. In the wish in that motion, with all due respect, there is an impossible contradiction. When you identify whole sectors as a target of sanctions, you inevitably find large groups in the population. So for that reason, I must also discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 238 also by Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Karabulut, the government calls on the International Court of Justice to examine, together with similar countries, the possibility of bringing an action against Myanmar and to inform the Court of Justice. I would also like to leave it to the House to decide. Then I'll come back with my findings. The motion in part No. 239 by Mrs Van den Hul, Mrs Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuzu, the government calls for conditions to be attached to all cooperation with Myanmar that make a concrete contribution to improving the human rights situation. On this motion and also on the following, in part No. 240, which calls on the government to make explicit reference to the human rights situation in all the information it provides on cooperation with Myanmar, I would ask the applicants to keep them. I have already indicated that reference is made to a number of websites that deal with the different relationships there are with Myanmar. I would also like to have the overview in consultation with the responsible colleagues. So if I may ask the Chamber to hold both motions, I will bring a letter to the House by a week or two which I have been able to discuss with colleagues from LNV and Education, where the organisations were mentioned, and I will give an opinion on both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u128	If, in fact, we can look forward to that letter within two weeks, we are prepared to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u129	At the request of Mrs Van den Hul, I propose her motion (32735, No. 239). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u130	Then I'll be at the end of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u131	Oh, and the request to hold a motion also applies to the motion in part No. 240.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u132	At the request of Mrs Van den Hul, I propose her motion (32735, No. 240). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr. De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr De Roon had another question that I had already addressed in the first term. I indicated that a large-scale amnesty was proclaimed today because of the Myanmari New Year. With the information we now have, the two journalists are not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-7.u136	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I thank the Minister for his presence. I'll suspend until 3.45 p.m. and then we'll have the VAO's disability.
