ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66 for his questions to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I warmly welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Kids with mental illness shouldn't be locked up, but you should help and treat them. We have often debated in the Chamber the issue of closed youth care. As a House of Representatives, we have already put forward many proposals, and there is also widespread frustration that this Minister is too slow to deal with them. We've been waiting a year now. I would like to point out in advance that we were informed yesterday via RTL of the latest action plan, which means that RTL will be informed sooner than we as the House of Representatives. I don't like that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	Good thing you're making this point, I'd say, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	Having said that, I would like to talk about the content. We shouldn't lock up kids with mental problems. Especially when it comes to suicidal children, we have to give that treatment. We are talking, for example, about children who have anorexia, children who have psychosis or children who have borderline. We actually see in practice that a suitable treatment of a youth psychiatrist or a youth psychologist is not available and that these children, who are all under the age of 18, are on a waiting list and then locked up in closed youth aid. Then, of course, we have read the Minister's letter with great interest. The minister says he wants to register suicidal behavior by 2020. In 2021, all kinds of other matters will have to be settled. But, Mr. Chairman, what good is that to suicidal children? Does the Minister feel the urgency to act now and not in 2020 and 2021? Mr President, I shall conclude. The finances surrounding the closed youth aid remain a concern. We are told by youth aid institutions that they do not have enough money. The Minister is investigating it. It's gonna be a long time. When can we expect all these investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	I shall now give the floor to the Minister and I would like to ask him in advance to give a concrete answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday at 6.30 p.m. I sent a letter to the Chamber and at 6.30 p.m. the message was at RTL News; that is not the order and I apologize for that. Then the content of the questions. The plan of action, as received by the Chamber yesterday, is the plan of action that I have taken together with the sector. I'd do that in the first quarter. That's what's agreed in the Care for Youth programme. In this way, I sincerely believe that I have chosen no route other than that agreed with your Chamber. The urgency, as Mr Raemakers emphasizes, is the same to me. We will have to move towards a closed youth care system that is more small-scale, more family-oriented, with a less repressive climate, where we will be able to stop the separation to zero and where we will be much better at suicide prevention. I therefore wholeheartedly share the urgency that Mr Raemakers has highlighted. The approach to all these elements is set out in this programme. The approach to suicide prevention involves, for example, training of all employees, the use of tools for risk assessment and conversation, the exchange of knowledge, the registration of suicidal behaviour and the conduct of scientific research. The deadlines set by this plan, such as those laid down by the sector, are deadlines. They're definitely not starting dates. I have just agreed with all the institutions insofar as this reality is not already in the process of becoming a reality that we are getting to work as quickly as possible. In short, where you read that something was completed on 1 January 2020, it does not mean that there is a waiting time for it to be introduced everywhere. I share your urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	First of all, I am pleased that the Minister admits that informing the Chamber did not go well. I think it's important to establish that. I would like to comment on training in the field of suicide prevention for staff in closed youth assistance. I understand that 2021 is a deadline, but I am seriously concerned that there are a lot of closed youth institutions at the moment where this training is not available, where children with suicidal problems are not adequately supervised. I'm worried about that. I understand that it will be well arranged in some institutions, but I would really like to ask the Minister to include in this context the research currently under way on youth-ggz. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. How's that going? In addition, I have also informed about the finances. We know that there are a number of investigations in this area too. I've been looking at the VNG's website. The Chairman of the VNG Committee on Finance has indicated that an independent budget survey shows that the number of young people in need of aid has increased significantly in recent years. Can the Minister confirm that and can he also send that investigation to the Chamber as soon as possible? Let me quote the VNG website. It says that the study also looked at the intensity of youth aid in 26 municipalities. It also increased. It is therefore logical that the cost of youth aid has risen sharply. The Minister indicated that an investigation was being carried out in 30 municipalities, in 15 municipalities with 15 municipalities without a deficit. Now that I have read on the VNG website that 26 municipalities have been investigated, does that mean that 15 municipalities with a deficit have been investigated and that in the Netherlands there are only 11 municipalities with no shortage of youth care? How am I supposed to interpret those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	First of all, on the prevention of suicide. I share the urgency as Mr Raemakers puts it. I have indicated that the deadlines set by the sector in the plan of action are deadlines. All the institutions are just getting started right now. And that's necessary; I'm gonna say that right away. Secondly, research into volume development and the financial implications of that development. I've already promised the Chamber that I'd do that on spring note. So right now, all these investigations are in progress. A number of them have already been completed. For example, Iv3 is about exhaustion in the social domain. There are a number of studies that are relevant to this. Firstly, this is a study we are doing together with the VNG on volume development. Secondly, this is a benchmark study to which you refer. Thirdly, this is the analysis of the Fund's deficit municipalities, and fourthly, the Iv3 figures, the exhaustion in the social domain. All this comes together in the decision-making process of the spring note. I have committed myself to direct this towards the Chamber with the decision that the cabinet attaches to it. And then there's one more investigation. That is the action study that you yourself requested on the youth-ggz. That will be completed in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to get a little more sharper...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	Just for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	...to prevent us from having to hear things in the press again and not get to the Chamber first. Why doesn't the Minister send that Iv3 investigation and that investigation under those 26 or 30 municipalities to the Chamber now? Because that investigation is there, so he can just send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think the Room Iv3; that's what the Room always gets through the State Department. I think the other investigations are in progress. I believe that this research should be accompanied by a substantive policy response. That is also what was agreed with the Chamber earlier. This then requires that we also make the financial agreement that fits in with it. So that's why I'm committed to keeping these things together. Moreover, I think they are in conclusion, but I look at the civil service for a moment and it nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Mrs. Agema, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. This is the Minister's sixteenth action plan in 17 months! I hope the Minister still takes himself seriously that every time there is a problem he does not really take action, but takes the flight forward and comes up with an action plan. While we can read the minister, even yesterday in the paper. I quote: 'If we make sure that fewer children have to stay in closed care, I dare say that in the long term this will not increase the cost of care'. In other words, he comes up with an action plan instead of money. Will the Minister once and for all be honest with the people at home, with these children, who are suicidal, who need help, children in closed care, that there will be nothing but a cheap action plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	No, Mrs. Agema isn't right. Last year we discussed the Health Care programme for Youth with each other. In that Youth Care programme, it was agreed that we would work with the sector on a plan to reduce the number of suicides, to reduce the number of isolations, to work on a smaller scale of closed youth care. That's all the deal I made last year with your room. I was gonna work that out with the sector. Well, that's what happened. This is a plan that has been written on from both the institutions, which has been written on from young people and which has been written on from professionals. So this is exactly what I agreed to with your room and also exactly what it needs. Without doing it together, we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	We have just heard that this is the Minister's sixteenth action plan, at least the seventh action plan for young people and young people. This action plan is full of very nice words, nice tables, beautiful images, but if you look at the budget then that's this. It says here in so many words that it is not yet clear where the money should come from. I think that is a serious point, because if we make a proposal here, we must at all times indicate where that cover comes from. We'll be laughed at if we make extensive proposals here without cover. This is always the case with the action plans. I would therefore ask the Minister to give us a clear budget at least before the next debate, if we talk about it in greater detail, but also to give us an overview of what has now been done in concrete terms as a result of all the other action plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. We have a number of debates ahead, including on this approach to closed youth care, i.e. with the sector, with young people, with professionals. I would like to underline that. This isn't something that was thought of in the Ministry with its knees underneath the desk. This is something in which professionals in particular have been sitting on the pen. In May, I believe, we will have a progress debate on youth care. To prepare for this, you will just get a progress report as you always get it, with all the programmes, in which we write down exactly what we have achieved so far, what actions we have planned and what we have carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mrs Westerveld's question was whether there is also a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u21	And the financial translation of this story? I would like to undertake to do so as well as possible, but it is precisely because it is also about the conversion of facilities, where of course the municipalities that are responsible must also consult the institutions, that cannot be done to the last decimal place. This is also more for inter-municipalities and between institutions than the Empire has something to do with it. So I'd like to send another letter about that, but it won't have worked out in April. We can't wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA. I see you sighing!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u23	"The coalition of irreversible change." There he is again: a beautiful itch word bingo term. I'll write him down in my lineup. I fear that the term 'impossible change' is a term to hide the fact that we cannot charge the Minister for anything because there are no concrete achievements and no money is being made available. So we don't know when we're going to zero. We don't know when we'll be satisfied with fewer suicides occurring among children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u24	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u25	I would like to ask the Minister the following question. Just do that letter, which was rightly requested by Mr Westerveld, but also supplement it with which we can deal with the Minister when.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u27	Otherwise, the action plan will not make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u28	With cynicism, the world has never improved. What we have to do here is really change the serious issues that we have often debated. Here, the sector itself has been responsible and the institutions themselves, the professionals themselves and young people have come up with what is needed to start this change. That's what you're reading back here. I'd be happy to send a supplementary letter. You know what we have agreed on the separations, already in the Youth Care programme, namely to zero in 2021. You know exactly what you can pay me for. I am also very appealing to that result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I'll suspend for a few moments. After that, we're going to swear a new colleague.
