ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	I warmly welcome the Minister for Advanced Education and Media and I give Mr Rudmer Heerema the floor on behalf of the VVD for his question to the Minister about an Amsterdam school that would have been influenced by jihadists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday we received a very disturbing report about the Islamic school Cornelius Haga Lyceum in Amsterdam. There are even signals from the AIVD and the NCTV that this school is in contact with a terrorist organization. There will even be statements of support for this school of hate images and IS-sympathizers, and that is dangerous. At this school children learn to have intolerance and an anti-democratic attitude towards our beautiful Netherlands. This school is opposed to everything we stand for in education for our children. This school seems to undermine everything we have built together in the Netherlands. Mr President, this is not possible. This is totally unacceptable. The Minister states that there are few opportunities to close the school, and the municipality also sees little space. But we could lock up motorcycle gang clubhouses, clear drug houses, and then we couldn't tackle a school where kids get indoctrinated with pure poison? I want the Minister to pull everything out of the closet to shut this school down. That is why the following two questions. Article 220 of the Civil Code provides opportunities for closure. Is the Minister prepared to explore this article as far as possible in order to do so? And two, the law on citizenship assignment is the instrument with which we should be able to close this school. When is this law coming to the Chamber and are you prepared to make an emergency journey of this within your ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Heerema for his intrusive questions. Indeed, last Thursday letters were sent: the letter from the NCTV to the municipality of Amsterdam and a copy of this letter to the Chamber, with an accompanying letter from the cabinet. In it, the first signatory was the Minister of Justice and Security, also on behalf of four other directors. That has been a special step, and we fully recognise it. But it has been a very conscious choice to send these letters. The reason is indeed that there are great concerns about this school, and those concerns were of such a nature that in the end, weighing everything, we decided not to keep these concerns in chambers. The main goal was to inform parents and students, but also potential parents and students... just last week, the registration period started... wanted to inform about the concerns we have. That's got a lot of loosening going on. Indeed, we will use all the instruments we have, and they are also being used, to further address these concerns and to carry out research. This is also apparent from the co-signatory of the letter by the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who is responsible for integration and has the Presidency of the Task Force on this subject, and the two OCW directors. With regard to the education inspection, I can give the following state of play in terms of action, about doing everything. I regret to say last week that you also read in the letter that the education inspection was not able to do its job properly and therefore disappeared from the school. That's not acceptable. And indeed, we will use all the instruments we have for this, and that is, among other things, suspending funding. Yesterday, the driver again indicated his willingness to cooperate in further investigations. We will see in the coming days what these words are worth, but I have just indicated the possibility to intervene immediately if that does not happen. The inspection works on three lines. The first line is research into the quality of education. People were already working hard on that. That wasn't all crescendo and very smooth, but they were already working on it. On the basis of the AIVD's announcement, the proceeds were parked and further research was carried out. That will be announced as well as unannounced and will continue to happen. The second line is finance. There is currently an in-depth investigation into the administration of this school. There's reason for that, too. The third line is that there is research on the administrative quality of governance, as we always say so beautifully in our jargon, because there are questions about the governance structure: is the structure as it is on paper the reality in the school? Finally, Mr President. We are indeed working on legislation. So we'll bet everything we can. We're working on legislation. At the moment there is the conclusion of the written round of questions on the law which the school foundation is going to set up in a different way, so that much tighter supervision can be carried out at the front. So we can deal with that law as soon as possible. The law on citizenship is with the Council of State. We hope to get that law back this month, although, of course, we are not talking about the Council's planning. We can therefore quickly discuss the follow-up to this law in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	It is good to hear that, for example, the Law can quickly send more space for new schools to the Chamber, because this morning the newspaper said that this school in Amsterdam, the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, has an expansion drive towards The Hague and possibly even Utrecht. Is it true, Minister, that with this law in hand, about the foundation of new schools, we can stop undesirable schools in all the municipalities of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u6	The new law offers far more opportunities in the front not only to conduct targeted research into whether apprenticeship numbers are in order, but also to look very closely at directors and at what one wants to do in terms of educational content. That law is indeed going to offer more opportunities. I can inform you that a number of other applications are currently pending from this school organisation, SIO. That's seven. These also run in other cities. On the basis of the current law, all these applications are expected to be rejected, simply on the basis that they do not comply with the standards laid down for them. So also with the current law we can do something, but the new law will offer additional opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u7	It's good to hear that law gives more possibilities. But with this case and the expansion drive that this school has in mind, I think it is very wise to see how we can further develop laws and regulations to ensure that these kinds of schools, such undesirable schools, do not get grounded in the Netherlands. I don't think anyone wants that, so we need to bet on it as much as possible. If the law the Minister is talking about seems inadequate, we can further amend that law and see what additional legislation is needed to ensure that it does not occur anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u8	With regard to this case and the law coming up when it comes to the establishment of schools, we will, of course, also, with this case in mind, look very closely at what we have already regulated in this law and whether it may be necessary to do additional things in it. We will indeed continue to investigate this in the near future. We hope, of course, that the Chamber will bring the law up as soon as possible so that we can discuss it further in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. Then I will go to Mr. Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u10	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u11	Who was before? Wait a minute. Before we get into a fight, we're just getting started. Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u12	Go ahead, I'll tell Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u13	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u14	Ties to terrorists, salafistic influences, antidemocratic education and then hinder the inspection to do its job. This school, and especially the drivers, is no good. This has all been made possible in part thanks to Article 23 of the Constitution. But for now, only one question is relevant: how on earth is it possible that you didn't already have legislation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u15	That's the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u16	...to close down schools like this? I assume you agree with me that this school should never have been there and that you will be paged by these drivers if you do not ensure that this school is closed quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u17	You're talking about the Minister. Do you want to speak through me and not to me? 'Cause then everybody's gonna think you're talking to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u18	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr President, through you I say to Mr Van Dijk that Article 23 is never a licence to abuse it. At the moment when the freedoms offered in this country are being abused, we simply need to act. On the question of what this cabinet is doing, the answer is clear. I have been very busy with this in the past year. By means of two laws, we are also in the process of giving an additional toolbox to intervene when things happen that are undesirable or that are more positive, I think that schools should be instructed to take their responsibility even when it comes to good citizenship. In practice, the Law could also mean "less room for new schools" because we will be much more closely monitoring what we want to do at the front. In the current situation, it is only a question of whether a school has enough pupils. Then it can, in a manner of speaking, start. In the future, sometimes the problems come. This cabinet has taken that up with speed. I have already indicated that the bill is now in the Chamber; we can also deal with this quickly. The law on citizenship has also been firmly worked on, and has now been sent to the Council of State. We're not talking about the Council of State's way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u20	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u21	But we hope it will come back this month. Then we will be able to pass them on to the Chamber; then you can ask your questions and then we can have the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u22	We all know that, the whole procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u23	This also offers additional instruments, so it is being worked hard and hard. In any case, this is also done through the angle of education. As I have already said, this is a broader issue, but this is what we can do in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u24	It is indeed a broader issue. Where this cabinet, and also this Chamber behind me, always leaves itself over the root causes of migration, the root causes of this and the root causes of that, a large circular movement is made on this file again not to name the root cause of all misery. And that root cause is called Islam. Islam is antidemocratic, anti-integrative, anti-everything and diametric against everything our Western society stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u25	What's the question, Mr. De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u26	This legislation is therefore going to be inadequate. My question to the Minister is: why does the Minister not just dare to tackle the root cause, namely Islam, and to ensure that there are no Islamic schools in the Netherlands at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u27	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u28	Because the longer those schools are there, the more misery we can expect in the long run. Be like a cabinet just for once a guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u29	Fundamental rights are universal, as Mr De Graaf knows. But that does mean that fundamental rights are never unlimited. The use of fundamental rights, whatever their fundamental rights, is always subject to conditions. That is also what we are doing with regard to freedom of education. You will only be able to really assess what we are doing about it if you get the legislation in your hands. This also applies in a complementary sense to the instruments that we now have, in order to intervene and to be able to monitor when things happen that are not desirable in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u30	Freedom of religion... sorry, freedom of education, is an important asset. For the DENK Group, the importance of the children and the parents is paramount. I cannot escape the impression that the Minister, also in cooperation with the mayor, is pursuing a two-track policy. On the one hand, the Minister states that he should request that the mayor, or at least the mayor, put pressure on the board to resign. Major allegations have been made from NCTV: maintaining links with terrorist organisations. The question is whether that is not a criminal offence. But the second aspect, which I hear the Minister say, is that he is only now going to do research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u31	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u32	How does this relate to each other: researching the quality of education and researching the quality of governance,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u33	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u34	... to tires that have been maintained? How does this relate to the current approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u35	The research on educational quality was already ongoing. But you also read in the letter you received on Thursday that there was a letter from the AIVD in January. It contained information that also gave good reason to carry out further research, including in relation to the education inspection. So there were indeed the messages that came out in January and on which the cabinet decided last week to share some of them with you. That is indeed an unusual step, but they have given rise to additional research. That is currently in full swing. This is about education and inspection, through the three lines I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mr. Azarkan, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u37	It is extremely serious when school board members maintain contacts with terrorist organisations. I read that this happens from 2009 to 2012. Has the Minister exposed these children to the danger of those drivers for too long? Why hasn't it happened before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u38	I indicated that the AIVD's official messages came around this school in January. You have also been able to read in the letters what our follow-up steps have been on this subject, including from the educational angle. I have indicated that it is broader, but the Minister who is also involved in education is of course involved in this. The education inspection is carried out by three lines: quality, finance and administrative structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u39	I have every respect for the Minister for the fact that in the current legislative processes there is a clear view on how to better ensure security and good governance. But does the Minister agree that legislation in force in the field of secondary education is already well enough to make an active intervention? I refer, for example, to Article 3b. It states that "the competent authority shall ensure safety at school" and "safety referred to in paragraph 1 shall be understood as social, psychological and physical safety." And Article 17 states that "education is also aimed at promoting active citizenship and social inclusion." Surely these are sufficient grounds for active action now and not waiting for the legislative paths ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u40	We have chosen to share the information we have now, also in the interests of parents who have to make a choice and parents who already have children at this school. It is precisely at this time that the registration period started last week, which, by the way, ends on the 15th, we want parents to be part of it, so that they can get involved in the considerations they make. It is true that there are also opportunities for intervention under current education legislation. I have just indicated that, on the basis of the current legislation, we can even reject applications because they do not meet the standards laid down in them. In particular, let me take the issue of citizenship out of the box. The legal basis for citizenship education was so thin that in practice the inspection could not do anything with it. If one had, in a way, only one activity that could be linked to citizenship, that would be enough. This has been a reason for this cabinet to fill in much more clearly the legal basis for citizenship and also to clarify the task of the schools. That legislation will come to you as soon as possible when the Council of State has finished giving an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u41	This school was, of course, already controversial. The inspection would be on top of it, but we're reading now that the inspection is entering the school and observing classes, and it's just being sent away. My question to the Minister is: how on earth is it possible that the inspection in the Netherlands at a school that is so controversial cannot do its job in these lessons? And how can the Minister, apart from the fact that there is now a director who supposedly says that he is allowing the inspection now, guarantee and enforce that this is happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u42	The situation that arose last week prompted the inspection to leave the school. She could not do her job in this way and then said: then we should leave, but we will come back, announced and unannounced. When I became a part of that, I indicated that I find this unacceptable. If this situation is to be repeated, the current legislation, as Mr Bishop has just said, already offers sufficient opportunities to suspend funding for as long as there is scope for inspection to take action. If this happens again, we will apply it immediately. I know, therefore, that the education inspection will report the opposition to its investigations. But we'll see now what the driver's words he's said he wants to cooperate are worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u43	I have a second question. As the minister's predecessor indicated in the front that the inspection would be on top of it, I would like to ask if the Minister could send the Chamber a factual account of what has happened since its inception and what the inspection has actually done to follow this school. I would also like the Minister to address the issue of less supervisory powers in failing to fulfil social responsibility. Because that is much more possible in MBO and in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u44	There are some questions asked here in case we discuss this at a later date, if I understand you correctly. I will see how we can respond to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u45	Very big words are used in this debate, such as 'poison', 'undermining the rule of law' and 'indoctrination'. At the same time, the Minister was talking about major concerns that cannot remain in chambers. Then the question is what exactly are the facts. What's going on here? Is the big problem that the administration has ties to a terrorist organization? Is the problem that the quality of education is inadequate? And if so, why doesn't the inspection report become public? Or is the major problem of obstructing inspection in its work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u46	What we are concerned about is that you were able to read in the letter, which also partly refers to signals received through the AIVD. That is indeed an unusual step, but it has to do with the concerns we have about this school. This is also something that is now being taken up in a broader context; look also at the number of signatories to the letter that has come to you. The fact that the inspection was obstructed in her work or at least saw insufficient opportunities to do her work is something that only occurred last week, when an unannounced visit took place. This is simply part of the work of the inspection, which not only says that it comes at a certain time and asks for all the equipment to be ready. No, an inspection should be able, especially in this situation, to call other schools and say: 'we are coming in now and we want to see it' or 'we want to visit lessons'. So there was not enough room for that last week. I have just indicated that that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u47	That is my question, because every child in the Netherlands is entitled to good education but also to a safe environment. Both seem to be at stake here. We have the inspection to see to that. Does the Minister agree with D66 that the fact of refusing to grant access to the inspection alone should be a reason to close a school immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u48	Our laws and regulations do not allow for that. It'll give you room to suspend the funding. From education you can only stop the funding completely structuralally if the quality of education is long below the standard, or if the number of pupils is long below a certain limit. But I have just indicated to you that the instrument we have at the time when an inspection is refused to do its job or does not have sufficient opportunities to do its job is that we can indeed take a temporary funding measure. If this situation continues, it will become a structural measure. Last week, in response to questions that I had then, I indicated that, if funding is to be stopped for a long time, it will eventually lead to the closure of a school, because then it will no longer be possible to sustain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u49	Your second question, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u50	The latter is the question. Freedom of education is not a free pass for poor education. The Minister says that, others say that, and I say that. However, this situation has arisen here. Of course, this school should never have come, but it did. Now it seems that this freedom of education is standing in the way here. As the Minister has just said, there is no room to act if the inspection does not get access. In all kinds of areas, whether it is about families where children are not treated properly or about other things, and in all kinds of places we look after the well-being of children. Does the Minister agree with me that it cannot be the case that freedom of education extends to the extent that the safety of children is at stake and that, if so, and this seems to be the case here, action must be taken immediately, with any law in the hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u51	I say to Mr Van Meenen that freedom of education is not a licence to do things that are contrary to our laws and regulations. It is not the case that the freedom of education now prevents us from acting. No, we simply have laws and regulations on education, but also in other areas, which look at what is happening there and at the legal basis we have to act on yet insufficient. However, we decided to share the information we had, including with the parents. I admit that is a special step, but we thought it was necessary. In the meantime, the studies, not only in the field of education, continue simply because we do want to have a maximum view of what is happening there, so that we can also give a final assessment of the direction we will have to go out with the school. That will have to be demonstrated in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u52	If drugs are found in a cafe, that cafe closes immediately. Now the cabinet writes that a Dutch school teaches anti-democratic, anti-integrative ideas to children of puberty. Poison is spreading. An extremist doctrine of faith is also taught outside school hours, writes the cabinet. And then we stand in powerlessness. This can't be. Please, let's get the board out of operation and please, let's close the school. I ask the Minister to speak very clearly towards the parents: do not send your children to school there. And take a measure, make a lead, so that this board, in which we no longer trust, is dismissed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u53	I have just indicated that the cabinet itself has decided to disclose this information, knowing that there is currently insufficient legal basis to do the things you would like to do right now. What we are doing is, in all the areas that are there, I have just indicated what is happening in the field of education, to allow further studies to be carried out. This may indeed mean that, in the end, there will be sufficient legal basis to intervene if we consider it necessary on the basis of what else is available. That will have to continue in the near future. I am happy that you are blaming us for everything, but you cannot blame us for having opted for maximum openness now, on a sensitive subject, which I admit, and in a special way. But we found that there was sufficient reason for this, especially in the direction of the parents and children and the municipality of Amsterdam, with which we work very closely, in a very good way. I think that the drivers there are trying to do as much as they can, in a very complicated situation. Anyway, that has become clear by now. We're working hard on it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u54	Your second question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u55	It is not a reproach to the Minister but a call to think in the interests of the children, of their development and of their future in our society. This importance requires this minister not to wait for future legislation, but to stand behind the municipality of Amsterdam and do everything necessary to ensure that this administration goes away and that this school stops spreading these things to our children, in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u56	We do two things. We are now working very hard on the instruments we have and that is not nothing. We are also in the process of getting additional instruments. This cabinet was prepared for this and this cabinet has also agreed on this. I also put it into practice directly in the first year of my ministry. Indeed, we know that we would like to have more on these subjects than the current legislation offers us. The fact that we have come out is for the sake of the children and the parents. That was ultimately the decisive reason for sending the letters as they were sent, also knowing that this would unravel debates like this, not only here in this Chamber, but also in Amsterdam and in the country. As far as we are concerned, it is also a good thing that we are debating it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-2.u57	Thank you.
