ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are now going to deal with the budget for the States-General (35300-IIA).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Bosma as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we're talking today about the Jetten motion. And who's the only one absent today? Mr. Jetten. I'm sure it's a coincidence. D66 tabled a motion to spend an additional 10 million on doubling the number of policy-makers per Member of Parliament. D66 is worried about the House of Representatives and needs more money. To quote Fat Voormeaar: no, now it's going to be beautiful! What does the House of Representatives do? Well, he's controlling the cabinet. But what do D66 roommates do? They're the cheerleader of the cabinet. They sit in the plenary room with a flag and shout all day: oh, what a fantastic minister we have! I'll back that up. Scientifically, it is the purest thing to look back on my last debates. For reasons of piety, I would like to leave out the names of my fellow Members. Example one. Last Monday, during the debate on culture, the D66 representative starts with the words: here is a proud D66. Then for 15 minutes the D66 Minister is praised in heaven. Then she's gonna talk to society. Moreover, society has not yet responded. For such a text you do not need a policy officer. You're just gonna write that on your own, aren't you? Example two. Last week's Question Time is about an alleged incident at a squat with Kick Out Zwarte Piet. The representative of D66 does nothing but recite unconfirmed rumours about fireworks, bats and a raid. Question: How many policy staff do you need to be the echoput of rumors? Example three. In the Home Affairs budget, D66 even needed two MPs to say nothing about policy. Everything else was covered. The contribution of D66... usually consists of using the wave for the cabinet on their own. Conclusion: D66 does not need more policy staff, but less, much less. If you don't get any further than hip, hip, hooray for the minister, what do you need more support for? There is no doubt that there is a word processing program that can do that much cheaper. D66 always reminds me of a poem by Gerard Reve, The True Faith, which reads as follows. When the cardinal farts, they say: Boy, does it smell good in here. It's like someone's baking liver with onions. That kind of Catholics, I'm not crazy about that. End of poem. D66 people are people who say with every stinky wind of the minister: Boy, does it smell good in here. But for that, they need twice as many policy staff. However, the question arises: if D66 wants to confess democracy so badly, why don't they just start with it? Take an example of the tiny fraction of the SGP, which has been providing top quality support with a man and a half for years. Christian working ethics is apparently superior to the hedonistic, postmodern working methods of the genderless D66. This cabinet and certainly the D66 ministers produce very little. Minister Ollongren has not yet sent a proper law to the Chamber in two years. D66 Minister Van Engelshoven is busy with genderless children's toys, but an education law is hardly in place. As a cultural minister, she throws money, but a law: no! She'll announce she'll talk to Johan Derksen if he makes a joke that D66's laughing mouth can't laugh about. D66 ministers hardly send laws to the Chamber. So what exactly are these extra policy staff supposed to check? How the hell can you control something that isn't there? The party of the two sixs scores a big insufficient score for its contribution to democracy everywhere. First, the great democrats announce that if they do not like the outcome of the elections, they will not recognise that result and move on to the Republic of Amsterdam. Then they abolish the referendum, destroy more than 30 municipalities and rob our organs. Then they clap the whole judiciary full of party mates, start a campaign against information they don't like, or fake news. Then they ship our last piece of national sovereignty, for which generations of Dutch people have given their lives, from Heiligerlee to the Grebbeberg, towards unelected bureaucrats of the Great European Empire under German leadership. Oh, don't mention the war. And now suddenly they say: we need EUR 10 million extra, because we are so worried about democracy. That's as credible as Prince Andrew, who says I'm going to buy child stamps tomorrow, because I'm so worried about kids. One more thing, Mr. Chairman. D66 is the party of judges, prosecutors, senior officials, sustainability coaches, gender advisors, diversity pushers, windmillers, climate profiteers and other supermodal state grapers. But who gets to cough up the 10 million of them? The tenants, the rent supplement budget. I get that, because that's not where the D66 pickers are. This is typically a proposal from a party whose people have never seen a company inside; 10 million in salaries! I have some news: those new employees have to work somewhere. You can't pile them up. This building is full. So the House of Representatives has to hire extra space somewhere, plus extra desks, extra computers and so on. Where exactly are these people supposed to work? Can I hear the exact location later or hadn't they thought about it? And is that all included in the 10 million or is the rent and all the other costs going to come up again and this 10 million joke might cost us 40 or 50 million? And what about the First Chamber? Does he get half, a quarter or two-quarters? I like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	I had a question about the first part of Mr Bosma's story, but I did not have the opportunity. But what an obsession with D66. We are talking about the state budget of the States-General. You bring in Prince Andrew and everything, and the chairman doesn't intervene. I thought, what is Mr Bosma doing? What are we doing here? People don't understand what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	You get the word to interrupt and then you start: I don't get the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	No, not the moment I tried to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	No, but I'm dealing with the interruptions. You know that in the meantime, at least, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Öztürk asks the question: what are we doing? My group has been clear for a long time that he does not know that. This is the first time that we have explicitly discussed the budget of the States-General here. There is a reason for this, namely the Jetten motion. An additional 10 million has been allocated by way of a motion. That's gotta be in the books by January 1st. That is why we have this budget as a separate issue today. We've never done that before. The reason for this is the Jetten motion. That's a D66 motion. I'll comment on that. It's called controlling the government. It would be nice if our Ottoman colleagues could also begin to do so. Well, Mr Öztürk doesn't get back from that. That's gonna save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bosma for his impressive speech and also for the beautiful poem by Reve. I have a question for him. For in his speech, which I find convincing in itself, I do perhaps miss the main argument against these absurd proposals which are now apparently supported by a large part of the Chamber, namely that the majority of what is happening here is totally absurd occupational therapy. What you see is that all these MPs all day producing nonsense-motions in endless, ein-de-lo-ze debates. If we get more employees, we'll get more madness, more nonsense, more busy, more wasting time in this place. Can you say something about that? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's right. It would be good if we made a large number of changes to the functioning of our democracy. Think about the referendum, think about abolishing the First Chamber. But it would be a good thing for the House of Representatives to just check on the government instead of just being a cheer machine. We are now working on number 621 on the list of the VVD, but it would be good if the House of Representatives would not be a pigeon loft, but people took that course seriously and just sat here for four years. There's such a huge flow in it. Why? Because people see this function to cheer up their résumé and don't want to sit here to learn the trade and control the government. We should stop with all these crazy chords, these climate agreements. That's some sort of corporate policy that we don't have any control over, et cetera. We should look much more closely at the functioning of democracy, rather than taking such a dick D66 motion seriously and talking about money again. Because money isn't the problem. What matters is a democratic attitude, which is simply lacking in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	I share that analysis. But if you look at how Parliament functioned in the nineteenth century, you can see that it was still a serious parliament back then, I think. At that time it still functioned as a controlling body of the government. Then you had people like you and me, who could make a normal speech. But when did that change? When have the people here stopped having a level, thinking independently, not endlessly but stalling time with these endless, pointless debates? How did that go in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	I don't know. But also in recent years there has been a nod, I establish as a simple observer. For example, if you look at the treatment of laws here in the Lower House, you can see that we hardly look at them technically. I think, for example, the plague is that a lot of MPs are very busy making movies. This chair is seen by many as a place where you can stand and then make a video of it. That is why the serious parliamentary handicrafts, which my group is fully aware of, are seriously getting into the background of yesterday's budget debate on Justice and see how Fleur Agema deals with care and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	Okay, those are observations. But when did that happen? This is a general pattern in all Western democracies. That's where Parliament turns into an applause machine. This is not just the case in the Netherlands, but also in France and the United States. Everywhere you see there are some kind of career tigers who actually do nothing more than repeat moves and endlessly stall. What is the problem with the democratic theory that in the course of the 20th century all these democracies were actually undermined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	Well, there's all kinds of hours to indicate. One of them, I think, is the Marine Cabinet, in I thought 1963, was going to work with government chords. Look, the coalition chords are of course getting thicker and thicker and thicker. You didn't used to have them. From my point of view, the Marijn cabinet began to do so. This means that the House of Representatives is actually bound by the government's intentions. Those intentions are becoming more and more detailed, more and more behind the comma. Yeah, then you come here as a MP, but if you're in a coalition party, all you can do is come up with nice ideas. See how the D66 group works: it only comes with funny ideas and funny suggestions. That's a lot of fun, but it's kind of the level of a student council. They don't control the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Baudet, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	Let me finish. I agree with that, so perhaps we could conclude that it would only make sense to strengthen the role of the parliamentarians when you do not have a majority government. If you had a tolerance structure, a minority cabinet, a knowledge cabinet or a business cabinet, as we want, then Parliament would become more relevant. Then it might make more sense to give that Parliament a stronger role. As long as that's not the case, you better keep it as small as you can. Is that what you're arguing? That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	I understand, but that makes it very black and white. Whatever you call it, also a business cabinet, a minority cabinet or a doogekabinet, whatever that may be, must ensure a majority in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	I like that ending, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	It's an interesting debate. It could also have been used in the estimation; perhaps for the next estimate. Thank you. It's about the future and the way the Chamber works. We also have a debate with the Van der Staaij working group. It is very important to raise these issues there too. I now turn to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my maiden speech I already mentioned the importance of the States-General in the history of our country. In this respect, we must be careful of this institution. Moreover, Dutch democracy is relatively cheap compared to our neighbouring countries and our parliament is also relatively small. Investing in the quality of support for our parliamentarians is therefore a good thing in terms of the VVD. That is why we will co-sign the Sneller amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	I was just in the interrupting debate with Mr Baudet a bit unkind in the direction of the VVD group, but look at the House of Representatives. Mr Van Gent has just said that we must be careful at the institute. I couldn't agree more. But if you look at the VVD group for example, I will not make it too personal. Every week we say goodbye to a VVD person; every week a new VVD person comes. I'm trying to remember the names, but it's happening so fast with you guys, you might have to work with back numbers. Mr Van Gent shares my observation that it is bad for the House of Representatives, because you then have your controlling task... You've got to get in. It's not a trade you can control in two weeks. Does Mr Van Gent also think that the movement within the VVD group is bad for the House of Representatives and therefore bad for Dutch democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	My fellow Members who have left the Chamber in recent years all had their own good reasons for doing so. So I find it hard to speak out about those personalities. But it is indeed important that as a Chamber, especially thanks to good support, you carry out your duties as a government auditor well. It is true that it helps if you can build up experience. Of course there's another side. If you might stay on for too long, you can see that sometimes when you look at municipal councils or Provincial States, it has a different side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	I couldn't agree more. I'm very happy about that. But does the VVD also have some sort of plan to make sure that the pigeon house, which is the group now, is stopped? Is there some kind of awareness in the VVD that this should stop, because it is bad for the Chamber and perhaps also for Mr Van Gent's party itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	In the end, MEPs make an individual assessment. They have that right, too. I don't think we should interfere with that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	We're going to spend $10 million. We don't spend it on policemen, on people in education, on people in health care, but on politicians here in the Lower House. This is largely paid out of the rent allowance. Mr Sneller has tabled it. Mr Van Gent is underneath as number two. My question to Mr Van Gent is: does the VVD have the priorities in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	All the things you mention, when it comes to investment in the police and care, are important. But we also consider it important to invest in the quality of the support. It's 10 million. That's definitely not nothing. But again, we have a relatively cheap democracy and also a relatively small parliament. So a good support is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	I'm not going to agree to that. I can't explain that to cops, teachers and caregivers, but I can't explain it to people who get rent payments. It seems that this is what the majority of the Chamber wants. Can we at least look at the cover? Can we make sure that the money is not taken away from the tenants, but, for example, I would like to mention a few things about the consultants, the informers and the communication staff in the ministries? Will we at least take that money away from the tenants, but from politics itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	If I read the amendment correctly, it is paid out of underutilisation in the Interior, so from everything that is included. If that is not spent, then there is under-utilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	You can give the money from the rent allowance to tenants, but you can also give it to politicians. It's my preference to give it to the tenants. I wonder what Mr Van Gent thinks about that. My alternative is not to take the money away from the tenants, but for example at the towers, the ministries, at the expensive consultants, with the informers and with the communication staff, Mr Van Gent apparently does not like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	Again, the cover is the underutilization. It is the great challenge for us in the States-General to distribute the scarce resources. In this case, therefore, there is also a part about strengthening the quality of support for Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	No, no underutilization or underutilization. Just take a look at the letter of amendment, at number 10. When establishing the budget statements of the Ministry of the Interior, page 2 states that it is simply from the budget for the rent allowance. It's just at the expense of tenants. Hardworking people don't get that money. It goes to all those MPs' policy staff who don't control the government anyway. It's just on page two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	The coverage of the amendment stems from the structural underexhaustment in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	It's nice that it's in an amendment, but reality is different. The Minister says something completely different. She simply says: "The cover is partly from the salary and price adjustment at the Complementary Post and partly from the budget for the rental allowance, as a result of a reduction in the self-employed deduction." That's just money. People work for that. People don't get that in their wallets, but it goes to all those policy makers, who we don't need anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	It is clear that this is about money, but of course there are all kinds of under-spending in the Interior. That's where it's covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Nevin Özütok, who unfortunately cannot be present today because of private circumstances. It is quite extraordinary that we are discussing the budget of the States-General today. It's not customary. And why is that? Because at the General Political Reviews a motion was adopted by member Jetten, who was widely supported in this Chamber, to add 10 million to the budget of the House of Representatives, especially aimed at the adoption of additional group support. Mr. Chairman. Let me be honest: it is always a bit uncomfortable to talk about extra money for politics and politicians. But it became clear from the input of the VVD that we have cheap democracy compared to other countries and that our parliament is relatively small. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, quality may cost quite a bit, so we are pleased that this motion is now being converted into an amendment and that there will be more support for the House of Representatives next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	GroenLinks says it's always hard to talk about extra money for politicians. It's just where you get it, I'd say. If you get it away from the tenants, I'd be embarrassed as a GroenLinkser. I would be ashamed as GroenLinkser if I were to take money away from the rent allowance to give it to ourselves here in the Lower House. I'd be ashamed of that. I'm certainly not going to do that as a SP. Mr Smeulders is going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	I know the SP is incredibly critical of extra money for the House of Representatives. The SP also voted against the motion. That motion has been passed. The SP then also tabled a motion requesting a different coverage. We have also supported this motion, because I also see that the image that that money comes from the tenants alone is not very good. The cabinet has assured us several times that this is not at the expense of tenants. I would actually like to put that question back to the cabinet. It can't be at the expense of tenants. If that's true, then we need to look seriously at another cover. But as long as the cabinet is so determined, I would like to believe the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	Yeah, it's rent supplement money. If there is money left, for whatever reason, then you can do two things: you can give the rent bonus money to the tenants by giving them more rent allowance. Or you give it to politics. GroenLinks says: well, then we don't give it to the tenants but then we give it to ourselves. I have an alternative. 10 million was picked up in those towers at the ministries. Then we don't take it away from the tenants but from the consultants, the informers, the communication staff in the ministries or somewhere else. But let's get the money out of there. I don't need that extra money, but if we take it away, we don't need it from the tenants! Not with the tenants, just with the ministries. Is GroenLinks willing to support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	I think that is a very sympathetic idea, so I am happy to see Mr Van Raak's amendment. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As my colleague said, it is quite unusual to talk about the budget of the States-General at the end of this year. We usually do that in May, and that's what we call the estimate. In any case, in the second part, I would like to mention something in the tradition of the estimation, because it is very often not money that is being discussed but, among other things, the canteens of the Chamber, and I did not want to let that tradition go. The first is what the other fellow Members have already mentioned. We are conducting this discussion, among other things, to release funds for the support of the Chamber. Let me say from the CDA that we think it is important for the Chamber to be able to carry out its function. In addition, you can have all kinds of views on how democracy can be improved, but at least the controlling role vis-à-vis the government must be well done. This means that Members of Parliament must be able to count on additional support. Mr Smeulders spoke of money for politicians. From the CDA, we're looking at something else. It is not money that is allocated to all of us, but it is given to people who spend time and energy reading the many pieces of paper. It is really a lot of money to make sure that precisely those critical questions are asked that the cabinet also needs to be able to conduct good policies. We will therefore wholeheartedly support the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Sneller, on behalf of D66. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point, which is in the tradition of estimation. My colleague, Jaco Geurts, did a great deal of work a while ago: we would like to have much more of our own products made in the Netherlands by the agricultural sector in the restaurants of this Chamber, and they should also have the appreciation they deserve. He made an inventory showing that there are quite a few products in our canteens for which a perfectly manufactured alternative is available in the Netherlands. That is a plea for making use of what our agricultural sector itself produces, but it does not bring up the products we offer here, even from far away. So people who have considerations about sustainability could also support this proposal. I am therefore considering tabling a motion in the second term to call upon the Bureau to increase the supply of these products in the restaurants here in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr Van der Molen, but Mr Van Gent has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yes, I have a question, partly out of enlightened self-interest. You are talking about products from the Netherlands, from Dutch farmers. I suppose there's still room for some exotic products. To mention just one thing: last night there was another very late meeting and then coffee, for example, is also essential. Hopefully there will still be room for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	Yes, I also attach great importance to a large amount of coffee in this house, not only because of late but also because of early debates. The plea is therefore not to replace everything that is not Dutch here. Perhaps I disappoint others with that again, but it is mainly about broadening the offer. Because we really have an offer that we can get a lot closer. I also think that this way we can show that what we produce in the Netherlands can simply be used in our own parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	In itself, this is a sympathetic idea. I'm going to come back to what the CDA just said on the basis of my speech. It was said that I would have said that we are going to spend money on politicians. I have indicated: "For politics and politicians." It is really not the case that we are going to increase our own salaries. It's all about support. I think we're very much in agreement, but I think it's good to make this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	Okay, well, then you've done it on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now turn to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	We're going to spend 10 million, not to policemen, not to people in education, not to people in health care, but here to the political parties in the Lower House. We're gonna take some of that money away from the tenants, from the rent allowance. If anything proves the gap between here, the House of Representatives, and the people, then it is this kind of proposal. It is of a world alienation and of a brutality that I cannot understand and cannot explain and with which the SP will not agree. Anyway, it looks like a majority of the House is gonna do this anyway. But can't we get the money from somewhere else? If there's an extra 10 million here, does that have to be the tenants' money? Can't that just come from those towers, from the ministries, all those expensive consultants, all those informers, all those communication staff? However, I would like to appeal to my dear colleagues to get the money there and not to the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	The SP has been advocating for years that the Chamber gets less money and that Members of Parliament also get less money as a salary. We could say that's a noble pursuit. It is words, harsh words, which you say to my fellow Members, but it would also be nice and an act if the SP were to return annually the eight tonnes that you are about to receive from this amendment every year. Is the SP prepared to add the deed to the word and say: wait a minute, the extra eight tons that we get as a SP fraction, we return to the tenants, to the care, to the police. Then you would be an idealist who adds the deed to his word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	I invest more than half of my fees in my own party every month. That is why we can do so much: we can train people and support actions. We also have a lot of support ourselves, including as politicians. That's a wonderful principle: to stop your own pants, to invest in yourself. That is our starting point. We always have, and we always will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'm talking about the eight tons you get extra on January 1st. That's what I'm talking about. I would like a specific answer from the SP spokesperson: what are you going to do with that money? Are you going to use that money again, and you're going to blame us here: you see, you're pocket fillers? Or are you finally going to add the deed to the word by returning that money? Then you're a man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	I am going to do my utmost here today to ensure that this measure does not go through, that that money goes to the agents, or to the tenants, the teachers or the care. I hope, when the money gets there, we're not gonna take that away from the tenants, we're gonna take it away from the ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	Finally. I hear the SP is gonna put that money in her own pocket. That is the problem here: Parliamentary groups here make up for pocket fillers, but in the meantime still use the money for their own gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	Well, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	I think today...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	Whoa, whoa. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	If you are prepared to return that eight tonnes, I think: okay, then you have also fulfilled the words you have just used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	The SP isn't like DENK. DENK also started with this: asking for more money, asking for more money, more subsidy, more subsidy. We don't. As Members of Parliament, we pay more than half of our allowances. I didn't call anyone here a pocket filler. I said that the money invested in this, which is 10 million, is not invested in agents, education and care and that I cannot explain it, that I find it incomprehensible and indecent to remove it from the rent payment. That's what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	Then I actually want to... with this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	You're in charge of the order, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been mentioned: mostly the budget of the States-General is a hammerpiece and we are doing the debate on the estimate in spring. The government then converts that proposal one-on-one into a bill. In fact, we are only dealing with this budget in special cases. That is not, therefore, ever true, as Mr Bosma said, because in his period in the Chamber it has happened once before. But it isn't that often. There is a happy reason for today, as far as I am concerned. In the spring I said that commentators, the Board of Public Administration and the State Committee-Remkes all advocate a better support of the House of Representatives. They point to the relatively low expenditure for our parliament per capita compared to other countries. Unfortunately, that plea of MPs usually came only at farewell interviews. Much less often we heard that from active MPs. I said at the time that I get that a little bit, because hard work and the economy of taxpayers' money is often an important value for MPs. But sometimes it seems like a taboo. And I didn't get it that well. Fortunately, I say this partly in the direction of Mr Öztürk, who has left for a while, that discussion has been accelerating ever since. In the General Reviews, a motion from my group chairman was adopted to provide better support for parliamentarians. He almost got room-wide support. Mr. Chairman. From taboo to majority: it can sometimes, very often, go quickly in The Hague. An amendment was tabled this morning to work out that motion. It not only strengthens the support of the political groups on this side of the Binnenhof, but also gives the Chamber the additional resources, as I say in response to the questions put by Mr Bosma in his term because he apparently had not read the amendment himself, in order to provide additional agencies, ICT and facility support. That's all there is to it. Moreover, the budget for supporting our part-time colleagues on the other side of the Binnenhof goes up. That doesn't seem like much in absolute numbers, but percentageally a decent move. Finally, Mr President. I hope, together with you, as you have said, that this additional support will not contribute so much to further motions, but will, above all, lead to a higher quality of government control and, for example, give impetus to our co-legislative task. I see Mr Bosma standing. I think that as an employee, I have been in professional K more often than he has been as a co-legislator, as the initiator of a legislative proposal. During the time Mr Bosma was in the Chamber, for example, D66 submitted legislative proposals and received from the First Chamber for shorter partner alimony, active donor registration, the removal of the ban on narrowing blasphemy, conscientiously held civil servants, the Climate Act, the House for Clockblowers, the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's method of appointment, the normalisation of the legal status of civil servants, the removal of the ban on insulting a friendly head of state, the Shopping Time Act and the removal of the single fact structure from the General Law equal treatment. I had to google quickly to Mr Bosma's first-term texts. I do not think that this is a exhaustive list, but of course we can take this task even more seriously with this support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	So Mr Sneller confirms what I said. Making those laws is all nice, but the critical control of the government doesn't do D66. D66 executives hardly produce laws. On these two points, therefore, Mr Sneller agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	I do...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna be... I don't think there's a question being asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	Can I ask you a question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	Just a minute, Mr. Faster. You'll have an opportunity to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr Sneller referred to the amendment. I want to be clear, because there is, of course, a lot of talk about it. Is 10 million really the total? So we're not gonna get over it? So 10 million is not salaries and all kinds of secondary costs that come with it. 10 million is really going to cover the whole story, all the costs. That's how I understand it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	First of all, about Mr Bosma's misplaced words. If we have to appoint rapporteurs for the monitoring of annual reports here, the PVV Group will never give up at home, whereas in fact all the other groups represented here simply do their controlling role. Then there is Mr Bosma's question about the amendment which he has not read. It states, among other things, that the increase will be included in the estimates of the House of Representatives in the future. What Mr Bosma may not know, but what is true is that the regulation on financial support for political groups in the House of Representatives states, among other things, that certain reserves can be deployed after elections, so that will of course change. That is why it is also important that this financial regulation should be adapted in the near future. But I did not want to do so in this amendment, because perhaps other discussions will also emerge from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	That's a lot of words not to answer my question: is 10 million just 10 million? Let me ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	No, then I'd like to try to answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yeah, maybe that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	... because this doesn't make any sense. I have just indicated to Mr Bosma that 1.485 million ECU is also included in the explanatory statement of that amendment, which you can simply read, will be added to the chamber apparatus, to provide computers for staff and for facility support. That is indeed the overhead standard for housing, which Mr Bosma has asked for. But Mr Bosma flattens it with his question whether it stays there. That's why I wanted to give him the full picture, but he doesn't appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	Well, I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	Well, that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	My next question concerns the following. So we're going to get a lot more staff as a Lower House. If you walk through the building now, you'll see it's already full. We have occupational health legislation, which states that you cannot stack employees in the Netherlands and that they need a certain number of square meters. Think of desks, rooms and so on. There may be half more staff. Where exactly are all these people supposed to work? Could you please indicate the address or indicate the building where all these extra workers are to be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	I can't go into the hallway with you, so I'm afraid I can't say anything about that. I assume that in the thirteen years he has been here, Mr Bosma has also been on the other side of the Square, in the building we have there. There's still some room. When I look at us, where I am often found, I see that we still have square meters where extra desks can be found. Moreover, it is not a doubling of the number of employees. I do not think you can trace that back to me in any way. It is also up to groups themselves to see how they use that additional support budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u88	For example, we could not have drafted the own-initiative laws without external help from people who consider it important to contribute to them. They are now simply on the group as a volunteer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u89	Really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u90	Just finishing up, Mr. Chairman. That's good news. So those extra employees of the House of Representatives come to work in the Logement, across the street from the Square...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u91	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u92	...that's completely full. That's what we got across the street, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u93	Finalizing, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u94	And secondly, we can accommodate the fraction of D66. That's where all these extra people are gonna be housed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u95	In any case, I understand that the PVV will not call on the additional support, because they do not need it. They just keep running the low production they have, with some metal fatigue from time to time. And if we can get that extra support, we will make sure that it is housed with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u96	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you, Madam President. The Christian Union believes that we should be proud of the representative democracy that we have in our country, in which there is room for a multitude of parties. It is important that Parliament has sufficient support to carry out its controlling and grass-roots tasks properly. We are therefore very pleased that additional resources will be available to support groups. This is particularly welcome for the smaller groups in the Chamber, which have to keep a lot of balls in the air. My group considers it logical that we should not only look at ourselves, but that some of the additional resources should also be devoted to the House of Representatives and the House of First Instance. Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased that the subsidy to political parties is being increased, with funds also being made available for the next five years to support local parties, in order to further strengthen local democracy. We have also made this plea in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, and we underline this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop. No, he's shaking his head. Then I will go to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. Very briefly, two minutes. 99 Professors, Vaterland du bist lost. That is the feeling that I often have here in the Chamber, because of endless bullshit and endless bullshit debates. If you get any more support, the disaster for this country is unseen. You guys need to get your wings cut. The House of Representatives should focus on the main issues and not on all those issues where people are staring blindly at us and who are ignoring the great drama that is hitting our country by climate hysteria, mass immigration and the European seizure of power. The expropriation of our people, our citizens, is taking place under our eyes. But seeing blind, the MP is engaged in endless nose-debate. If there's more support, it's gonna get worse. So this is what we really have to oppose. This is a great danger. And it does not surprise me in that sense either that the party of the baby boomers, the party of the destruction of civilization, D66, made this motion. I would like to raise a second point. However, I will do so after Mr Öztürk has interrupted me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u100	I thought your party, you yourself, had spent $9,000 community money on some plants. And a colleague of yours had given wine to those plants, so those plants no longer exist. The community's money is so, so to speak, a little thrown away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u101	When Mr Öztürk came up with this story in one of the cartel media in response to some slanderous gossip, I said that we, like all the political groups, have spent money on the establishment of our group chambers. We bought desks, bought chairs. All groups get their budget. We have bought computers and indeed some plants and some other decoration. I believe we've also had some posters framed. I do not know the amount, but we have indeed spent so much on the amount mentioned by Mr Öztürk. Other groups that have more members and have bigger spaces to fill will have spent a little more on that; smaller groups might have less. But if Mr Öztürk means that it is very good for us, then so be it. If he ever wants to come by, he'll be very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u102	That's quite a long answer to a question about €9,000 for some plants. That's just wasted community money. Here, keeping a big story about the cartel and becoming the future cartel itself are more or less: that's exactly the story. On the one hand, you are breaking down here that we need additional support to control the cabinet even better. On the other hand, you throw away money by taking a private jet to Ibiza and by giving Henk Otten some money. So it's a little double and hypocritical, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u103	My criticism of this proposal has nothing to do with me finding that too much or too little money is being spent, in general terms, on the government. That's not what this is about. That's what the SP says. They can only say a little: the money has to go there. I am concerned about a much more fundamental point. I do not think that the House of Representatives should function as it should. I believe that there are 150 people here who are mostly concerned with covering up what is going on rather than revealing what is going on. They are henchmen of power instead of controllers of power. If we strengthen them, then we will strengthen a trend, a trend, which I regard as detrimental to democracy and society. That's why I'm against it. Then Mr Öztürk can do it twice, and that had already happened before, and start talking about all kinds of slanderous stories about things with plants. He's bringing in all kinds of stuff. That has nothing to do with the point here. My point is that you should not give any more money to a dysfunctional body, namely the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u104	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u105	There are a lot of small groups. They only have two, three or four employees. How can they control so many ministries, so many ministers, with thousands of employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u106	Because it's going... I get the question. I was expecting this question, too. I can answer that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u107	Isn't was yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u108	Finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u109	We need that backup. We need that expertise. We need those people to be able to handle all those ministries, all those reports, all those files, all those stories. I can imagine Mr Baudet saying that the coalition will get even more money to defend the current power most, but the opposition also needs support to tackle the current power. I would like to hear Mr Baudet again about this. What is the role of the opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yeah, that's exactly what I understood. It's not about endlessly checking every number in every detail. The problem with the events here in the Chamber is that most people no longer see the forest through the trees. They deal with all the details and are endless in the weather. That's what I've experienced in science, by the way. Detailism is a syndrome of a people who are losing their spirituality, which no longer has a direction, which is obsessed with it. That's what you see in neurotic quasi-artifacts in the Islamic world, always that mosaic, that endlessly repeating those neurotic mosaics. That's such a tiresome self-expression! That's what you actually see here; that's what's going on with Western civilization. One is no longer able to question major issues and therefore calls for endless support and all statistics and figures, to figure everything out. Dr. Cijfer calls that Frederik van Eeden. That's what's going on here. One must learn to focus on the main lines again. That is why less support is needed instead of more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u112	The second thing I would like to call into question today is the proposed move by our Parliament. I'm against it. I think it would be better to turn halfway around than to go astray. We must avoid being chased out of this house. We must avoid leaving the place open and empty. I am going to table a motion in the second term to reverse the proposed move and stay here in the house. I'm not against remodeling at all. I'm not at all opposed to things changing around here. We have to, but we can do that while we stay in the house. So I also wanted to use this a little bit to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u113	And then roll-call votes, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u114	That's a good idea! We're going to have a roll-call vote. Why not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u116	I stayed in time!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u117	Nice, neat, you can do it. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr. Chairman. Counterpower against power and the role of the opposition are very important in our democracy. In particular, the small parties, who are the voice of the people and dare to say what is not going well here, need support. We can't control all the ministries at once. I therefore welcome the fact that an initiative has been taken, with a motion and an amendment, to rectify this. I have argued for this in various meetings over the past few months and years. I'm glad the Chamber is taking over today. Mr. Chairman. But where's the money going? In the D66 amendment, 1.5 million goes to official support, i.e. to the administrative apparatus of the Lower House. I'm kind of worried about that. The works council has also expressed its concerns. Following the departure of director Jan Willem Duijzer, they said: the entire official summit has been replaced in three years. It costs a lot of money to bring back top officials. At the time, the image was created that the direction took place more and more from the political leadership. That's what I'm worried about. The moment you give EUR 1.5 million to the political leadership, the question is where that goes. Is that a court culture of: we only hire people who serve and support the President of the Chamber well? Or are we going to bring in independent top officials so that we can do the work that needs to be done here properly? I'm worried about it. I would like to ask the Minister to talk to the works council and to support the works council in the concerns about political leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u119	The latter seems to me to be a really bad idea: to ask the Minister for the Second Chamber of Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u120	...to check.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u121	...to check it out. So I hope that Mr Öztürk will take that back. In reply to his questions, the explanatory statement to the amendment, which he co-signed, states that this budget for overhead is directly linked to the expansion of the capacity to support parliamentarians. As I also said to Mr Bosma, this is not just a salary charge, but it is also intended to ensure that those extra staff have a desk and a computer and that someone also calls the phone if you want to contact them for the support of that computer, for example. So I think the word "top officials" is a little misplaced for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u122	I'm glad there's that support, the security, the ICT and that sort of thing. There must be, but my concern is not that the Chamber of Representatives and the President of the Chamber... The works council out of making sure the money goes to the top. What I am saying here is that it is a good thing that money is being reserved for facilitating, but it should not be the case that the President of the Chamber, like the works council, rightly criticises... It should not be the case that the money goes to the official summit, so that the support does not come to the Members of Parliament. That's what I'm worried about. I didn't ask the Minister to intervene in the Chamber. Here's what I asked you. The works council is worried. Then it might be good to see how we can support the works council in that. So not checking the Chamber or interfering, but trying to hear more the concern of the works council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u123	I am not entirely reassured by this explanatory statement either, so I urge the Minister to completely ignore Mr Öztürk's request. Let's talk about the first point. That is why we wrote together in the explanatory statement that this budget is not intended for this purpose. So let us keep following that, but let us not pretend that there are all kinds of locks or backdoors in this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u124	I agree with you, but I see a newsletter from the works council in which they say that the political leadership has more or less sent home the top officials, the clerks, over the past three years. So that's why I want to share with you the concerns of the works council here. The Presidium does not intervene in that; that is why I do so in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u125	I have to say, I find the latter very difficult. We are now having an exceptional debate on extra money for the House of Representatives. That's with the Minister. You come here with all kinds of criticism of the House of Representatives. That really needs to be done at the estimation, if you have it, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u126	That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u127	For the President is sitting for this and cannot respond. As a Member of Parliament, I find it extremely uncomfortable that you are here to criticise someone who is unable to respond, so I would ask you not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u128	Well, that happens all the time in this room. And it happens more often that a Member of Parliament is deprived of the floor and, while he has speaking time, someone takes his speaking time. So it happens more often in that respect. Then you can intervene at that time, if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u129	Then I give... No, then we're done with the first term. I'm looking at the minister to see if he can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr. Chairman. A special figure that has already been noted in the budget of the States-General, which, as far as I know, has not been dealt with recently and certainly not in the presence of the Minister. It is therefore appropriate for me, unlike the defence of our own budget, to adopt an unwieldy attitude in this regard. I have therefore listened carefully to the members of the Chamber and what they have brought in, but for the record, I respect the budgetary right of the Chamber itself. At the moment when amendments are tabled concerning cover to be found elsewhere in the national budget, it is up to me to indicate from the cabinet whether such an amendment can count on a positive opinion. I can already say that this can be done, because the coverage of the amendment is adequately regulated. For the rest, there have been a lot of exchanges that are really up to the Chamber, to conclude with Mr Öztürk's remark to consult with the works council. So I'm not gonna do that. It would be a strange state-law figure to do that. However, a few questions have been asked which touch on the Sneller amendment. Among other things, Mr Bosma asked what was in the 10 million. What's going on out there? I would point out to the Chamber that the 10 million and the wishes set out in the amendment may have consequences for housing and that kind of thing. That has not been taken into account at the moment. I see the amendment as an all-inclusive amendment and then I can give a positive opinion on it. I assume that all the costs arising from the housing of any additional staff will also be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u131	An all-inclusive amendment!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u132	I see that Mr Bosma is calling for all kinds of associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u133	Something with office gardens and palm trees or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u134	I am suddenly going to look at this amendment very differently. I'm all-inclusive. But this Secretary of State's recovery, now I make the mistake myself. This minister is also about our housing. The renovation just came up. The amendment will provide for more workers. That's a big deal. I would simply like to ask Mr Sneller: where are they going to work? He says, on the other side of the Square. So that's the Lodge. And he sees some space at the fraction of D66. Well, at least he's thinking positively. That's great. Again, I think it's quite something. You've got a pretty good chance it's about dozens of extra people. Can this minister, who is talking about our housing, tell us where all these extra workers are going to work? How does he think he's gonna take care of that for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u135	I cannot do that at the moment, and that is exactly why I am making my comment. It will have to be a process in which the House of Representatives, as a user in relation to the renovation, will indicate how it sees the impact of the Sneller amendment, what that will mean in extra FTEs, where these people should be housed and whether this will ultimately have consequences for the way in which we intend to shape the conversion. As far as I'm concerned, that can just get a place in the regular process between the Chamber as a user and the National Real Estate Company as the performer of that renovation. If the idea were to live that this money was only intended for salaries of newly recruited staff and that any consequences for housing were not taken into account, we would have a gap in the budget for the conversion of the House of Representatives. I'm gonna point that out anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u136	We have already established that it is an all-inclusive amendment. I'm just trying to imagine. There's 10 million taxpayers' money spent on this. I walk through this building and I think with my amateur eye: gosh, that's pretty full. We also have old-fashioned buildings that are not built according to the state of the law. With my amateur look, I think it's pretty full here and we can't expand. Look around you. Everything is rented and the property around here is quite expensive. Is there any possibility that, thanks to this amendment, we will have employees of the House of Representatives who have to work somewhere in an industrial area in Rijswijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u137	The question is correct, but I cannot answer it now. That will really have to be the outcome of further elaboration. For this I first look at the Lower House as a user, as a High College of State, to accommodate this myself and see what this amendment will mean in practice. There are all kinds of possibilities. Maybe there's room left, maybe you can dip in, maybe space needs to be created. Well, that depends on a price tag, because that is not currently foreseen in the plan of demands. It seems to me that this can just get an orderly place in that process. The questions put by Mr Bosma, who are quite right, will then be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u138	That is worrying: spending 10 million extra on the House of Representatives, while we do not know what it is. If people show up, we don't know where to put them and what the consequences are for the renovation. Those are huge question marks. I wonder what the Minister's positive opinion, his positive assessment of the amendment, is based on, other than the signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u139	My positive assessment is first of all on the coverage of the amendment. When it comes to the impact, it is really up to the Chamber to give it a good form within the financial frameworks that are in place. Of course, if there are spatial consequences, this will have to be done in conjunction with the National Real Estate Company. This is first and foremost to the Chamber. It is also the budget of the States-General. I have just indicated that I am in fact a marginal position here, because I am not here to defend my own budget, but have been invited to a debate in which you yourself deal with the budget of the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr. Van Raak...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u141	Moreover, while Mr Van Raak is on the interrupting microphone, he was concerned that this coverage, on which I have just given a positive opinion, would be at the expense of the rent surcharge. That is not the case. What's going on? A change in the tax system has led to a reduction in the self-employed deduction. That's for zzpüpers. This therefore means a higher income for the group concerned and a lower charge on the rent payment. So it is not at the expense of people who are now entitled to rent payments, not at all. There has been room, and some of that space has been used in later years as cover for this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u142	That's what I understood. I always read the Minister's documents very well, and I also read amendments. But if money is released from the rent allowance, you can do two things with it. You can give the money that is released from the rent allowance to the tenants, with a little more rent allowance, or you can put it in support of the politicians here in the Lower House. Well, the SP is bad for the first. But my question was also about the renovation. I want an opinion from the Minister, who knows a lot about renovations in the meantime. How's he gonna see all these people in this building soon? The Minister now also knows this building inside and out in connection with the renovation. Can he advise us where these people can be accommodated, and that in such a way that out of the 10 million there is still something left to hire people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u143	I should then have more information on the distribution envisaged by the authors of the amendment and accepted by the House of Representatives. How many people are we talking about being hired? Do these people have to work here or can they work in another place? Can you work at home? Where are the rooms? Again, I understand the question, but this is really an issue I cannot answer here. This should be given a place in the usual process, in which the House of Representatives as a user, the Construction Guidance Committee and the Bureau take decisions on how they intend to organise the Chamber and what is necessary for that purpose, taking into account the amendment. I'm just saying here's what I'm saying. If that has spatial consequences, then the profit warning is: this cannot be seen from the budget we now have for the conversion of the Binnenhof, read: also the Lower House because it is not provided for. That's gonna have to come out of there. But there are plenty of solutions possible, I think, to accommodate this; hence I am also positive about it. But that will have to be further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u144	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u145	So these are very important questions. These are fundamental questions, which are not yet the beginning of a solution. I find it difficult to imagine the Minister saying from the bottom of his heart that this is a fantastic amendment, because there is not yet a beginning to an idea of how we can implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u146	Well, I think this is just a normal sequence in a process. An amendment has been tabled. That is, of course, on the main lines. It sets budgetary frameworks and sets political objectives. I see all this in the amendment. That will simply have to be further worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u147	Would it make the Minister's life easier if Mr Van Raak says he is not going to use that extra support and not hire additional staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u148	I don't know. There's nothing wrong with my life. I have a very easy life. That's not what I'm looking for. That budget is ultimately the budget. There are some FTEs against this. This is also the wording of the amendment. Which parties are relevant to the amendment. If they did not come to Mr Van Raak and more to D66, it would still have consequences. So I think that's really something for the Chamber to work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u149	Did you have any other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u150	Well, I still have a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u151	It is, isn't it? But perhaps you have already answered a few questions in the event of interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u152	I think I've answered all the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u153	Well, that sounds very good. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget of the States-General... Or is there a need for a second term? That is the case! Everyone thought this was just a technical treatment, but it's still more than that. Then I'm going to see Mr. Bosma. No? Mr. Van Gent, do you need a second term? No, I didn't. Mr. Smeulders? I'm just going down the line. Mr. Van der Molen? Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I have no longer been involved in the debate in order to respond to Mr Baudet's call to stick to the main points. But to depart from that, I shall table a motion, as I announced in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Dutch agriculture and horticulture produce a tasty and responsible range in all seasons;]] [[calls on the Bureau to promote the expansion of the range of Dutch (region) products in the restaurants of the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-IIA-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u156	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Who needs a second term? Mr Baudet. No, it doesn't work that way; you shouldn't give wrong advice, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u157	Thank you, Madam President. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed relocation to facilitate the conversion of the Binnenhof is likely to result in a failure;]] [[Whereas the necessary renovations can be carried out perfectly without moving completely;]] [[decide not to move and also decide to come up with a new plan for phased renovation without the need to move the parliament in its entirety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-IIA-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u158	Then I have one other point that just came to mind when I walked to the printer. The behaviour of Parliament, in all this irrelevantness of its activities, can be compared to override behaviour. This is also seen in prisons, where prisoners, for example, are completely mad about the fact that they are locked up, and where nothing seems to be more important to them than the coercive neurotic justice of their pillows or, in zoos, the exact order of straws. That's because they're unfree, because they're chained, because they can't do anything that's actually relevant. The same goes for the parliamentarians, most of you. You know you can't do anything. You can't do anything, your power is contained, you have to obey the coalition compulsion, and so on, so you're going to deal with the smallest details and the most irrelevant issues. The great tragedy, the demise of the Avondland, which is taking place before our eyes and which is wanted and accomplished by the party cartel, falls outside your field of power. It's out of your sight. Once again, therefore, we need to avoid any more busybodies coming here at any price and even more staff, because we will get even more jump-off behavior, even more micromanagement and even more compulsive neuroses in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u159	Thank you. I'll see if I missed anyone. No. The last motion is still being distributed, but the Minister has been listening, so I give the floor to the Minister. Easy, easy, Mr. Baudet, just a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u160	Did you really just say that the Minister was listening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u161	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u162	It's not so common for members of the government to actually listen to what we're saying, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u163	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u164	Quod erat demonstrantum. That's exactly the point I want to make. They know, too. They're always on their phone, because they're getting bullied here and because nothing relevant can be discussed in parliament. It is already clear what is going to happen, because of the coalition pressure, the coalition agreement, and so on. I'm glad you implicitly confirm my right. We are indeed surprised and I also like it; I very much appreciate the fact that a member of the cabinet once listens to what we say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u165	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr President, this is an extremely interesting debate. However, bearing in mind my limited role in this debate, I would not like to respond to Mr Baudet's words. I was somewhat surprised, because after this a VAO Binnenhof takes place. I would say that Mr Baudet's motion belongs there, but the Chamber has allowed this motion to be dealt with here. I would like to judge her at the next debate so that Mr Baudet can listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u167	Well, I'd still... Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u168	I'm aware of that. But the point is that I've noticed a few times that you're not allowed to participate in a VAO if you're due to other things... We're a small fraction and we couldn't do an AO, so I'll do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u169	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u170	Sometimes you have to slide. If we had more support, it wouldn't matter. It has nothing to do with the Chamber's agenda and it has nothing to do with support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u171	Good. But I was actually about to make a point of order and ask the Minister to give an opinion on the motion. When it comes to the budget of the States-General, it is actually about almost everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u172	But Mr Baudet and I do have an agreement: if you're not big, you have to be smart. He has put this motion very handy here in this debate and I am going to give an opinion on it. The request is to waive the proposed relocation. It is not entirely clear to me whether this is a request to the parliament itself, but I see it as a request to the government. I must, of course, discourage the motion because of the need to continue the renovation. The deficiencies detected, in particular the risks associated with fire safety, make this necessary. Unfortunately, I had to inform the Chamber that the renovation had been postponed, but certainly not adjusted. It is very important that it continues, so I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u173	Please continue. You're not gonna ask about the renovation, are you, Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u174	No, because this motion is not so much about the renovation as about the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u175	Yeah, but you can't renovate without moving. The idea that the store will continue during the renovation is impossible in this case. Those scenarios have been discussed before. Of course it would be great if that could be done, but that is simply not feasible. Then you're really talking about a long-term construction site where there's still work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u176	Do I hear the Minister say that it would be wonderful if it could be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u177	Yeah, look. If only to hang a few paintings in Mr Baudet's room, if that would be the work...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u178	Plants hanged, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u179	...and to move the planters, it would be clear. Then you could say it's a small-scale renovation. But this is so fundamental, so large-scale, that it can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u180	I would suggest that we amend the motion as follows. It is always good to consider an alternative scenario before the actual move takes place, and to look again... It has indeed been postponed because we are facing additional complications. We notice here: it is still more complicated, it takes longer to grow the Aponrots, here we run into a number of complications. Can we not do a review, purely a review and not a decision, in the light of a new estimate of the options to stay here during the renovation? Can't anyone be opposed to that if I change the motion that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u181	If this motion had been tabled a few years ago, I think it would have been entirely within the order. The point is: a number of steps have already been taken. We've got B67. The temporary accommodation of the Lower House would be ready on time. There are other causes: a complex of causes; that is also what I reported to the Chamber in the October letter, which means that the risk that we will have to decide in the coming months to postpone is so great that we have said: we are already going to announce that we are going to do it a year later. The reason for this is that the Chamber can't just move on a weekend, but that you really need a few weeks for that. You can only do that in the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u182	I'm gonna say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u183	...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u184	No, Mr. Baudet. There's something I want to say to you. After this there is a VAO about the renovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u185	I can't be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u186	I'm sure you're welcome to join in. Even if you have not been to the general consultation, you can register. Then there will be a debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u187	Last time, I was turned down at a VAO. I wanted in too, but then the room... I remember very well; there has been a vote on it. All the spokesmen came forward and they wouldn't let me in. If I'm gonna be a part of this, I'm gonna be happy to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u188	But last time it was about something else, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u189	It was about the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u190	Yeah, about the care, about hospital care. That was a debate and you did not take part in it. That's different. It cannot be that we are not taking part in a debate, but that we are interrupting. That's not fair to each other either. When you start the debate with each other, you have to be behind the cathedral here too. But that's something else... No, no, no, just for a second. I'll give you the floor in a minute. But that's different from a general discussion. I also know that small groups cannot be present everywhere. That's why we made that exception. Even if they do not participate in a general consultation, they can register, for two minutes, and also participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u191	I'm very happy about this. It is not that I was simply not registered, because then I walked to Mr Bishop and said: can I still register? Then he said, "No, you can't." I've seen that as a precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u192	No, but... Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u193	But if that changes now, then I am very pleased. In that case, I will be happy to discuss this in greater depth at the VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u194	And I thought it was between you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u195	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u196	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u197	Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u198	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Bishop, because I don't think anyone can follow this discussion anymore. Mr Bishop replaced me then, so he was acting chairman. Mr. Bishop did this neatly. In fact, it is not allowed, but he has asked the Chamber whether it was possible for you to participate at the end of the debate. A majority of them said: either you participate in the whole debate because they were here for hours or not. No, Mr. Baudet. We're not going to... I am going to see Mr Bishop, because he also wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you for allowing me to speak here, because according to the rules this would not really be possible. I'm on the list, but for zero minutes. But I do need to outline Mr Baudet's situation for a moment, otherwise it will be completely wrong in the Acts. That was a situation in which Mr Baudet had not registered, had not taken part in the deliberations, even when he was standing here at the interrupting microphone and had made the request to be registered. That is why it was said at the time: this is an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u200	And everyone has...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u201	Mr Baudet has...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u202	No. Wait a minute. Don't talk through it. Why don't we take the three of us for a cup of coffee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u203	That sounds like a brilliant idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u204	May I ask if it is filter coffee, and not the coffee from the vending machine, which is now being donated more and more here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u205	That's also a form of filter coffee. You can't drink that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u206	I promise. That's what I'm telling you. The three of us are gonna have a cup of coffee. I think that's very good. There was another motion. Have you assessed it yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u207	It was addressed to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u208	Oh, to the room. That's true. This brings us to the end of the budget of the States-General. A budget that we thought would be ready in 15 minutes, but that is not the case. So today everything ends, I say. I thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-21-tweedekamer-4.u209	We will vote on the motions tabled next week. I'm gonna suspend the meeting, then we're gonna move on to the topic of renovation. Interesting, too.
