ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Disability Services Act for young disabled people and some other laws relating to the further activation of the participation of young disabled people and the harmonization of the various regimes of Wajong. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I would like to welcome Members and those who are interested in the gallery and those who follow it at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	We'll start with the first term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I can start by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of 50PLUS, because Mrs Van Brenn cannot be here tonight. So she supports our input. Mr. Chairman. Here we are again, unfortunately. Earlier, the Secretary of State wanted to pay people under the minimum wage, which was called "wage dispensation." She went for the tarp. The child-related budget was not indexed and the lowest incomes would decline. These plans were still subject to pressure. The discount on brothers and sisters taking care of each other received the smallest possible majority in this Chamber and hopefully this law dies in the Upper Chamber. And now the Secretary of State wants to cut back on some people with Wajong benefits. It's a bizarre thing. In 2019, when the cabinet does not get the billions spent and there is another surplus on the budget, there is a legislative proposal in which we are going to deteriorate the situation for some Wajongers. It's a bizarre thing. For many people, it's the most normal thing in the world to go to work in the morning. But for people who have had a disability from an early age, this is often different. Finding and keeping a job can be complicated if you have a disability. Yet, like everyone else, you want to be sure of good work and a decent income. We want everyone to be able to participate fully in a real job. It is a great good thing that we in this Chamber stand up for those who need it and that we support them. This allows everyone to participate fully in society. The Secretary of State's plans fundamentally undermine that certainty, which is necessary if necessary. You wouldn't expect that if you read the title of the debate. It seems that the Secretary of State's officials have taken an emergency course with the communication department of the VVD Group. We are talking about 'harmonisation' and further 'activation'. Sounds pretty good, actually. But if you continue reading, it turns out that code words are for an operation that means a deterioration for a lot of people. The law means that young disabled people remain trapped below the minimum wage, just above the poverty line. There's bread, there's no siege. Who are the victims of the new plans? If you're highly educated now but have a disability, you can earn more than the minimum wage. You're being compared to what your colleagues deserve. This is how your education and ambition are taken into account. I'm gonna get rid of it. If you can't work full-time, but work according to your ability, you will now be supplemented to the minimum wage or even above it. I'm gonna get rid of it. Now, if doctors think you're probably never gonna be able to work, and all of a sudden, you get to keep some of the income. I'm gonna get rid of it. People who risk going backwards offer the Secretary of State a so-called guarantee, but that guarantee does not even go to the door. The guarantee will expire if you lose your job and do not find a new job within two months. And it's almost impossible for anyone to do that. For example, if you only find a new job after six months, you can lose hundreds of euros. The only guarantee offered by the Secretary of State is the guarantee that you'll get worse if you lose your job. Doesn't the law have any advantages? Oh, yeah. The law's getting simpler. It gets easier to fall back on a benefit if the job doesn't work anyway. And you can go to college. Nevertheless, together with many colleagues in the opposition, I call on the Secretary of State to amend the law. It is also possible to harmonise and activate without reducing people. I'm offering the Secretary of State a solution. Don't stay stuck in your own right. Adjust your course of action. Talk especially to the people affected by this, not if the law has already been passed, but before that. Get in touch with our Minister of Disabled Affairs, who is here and following the debate. Get in touch with interest groups like the FNV Wajonggroep. Get in touch with We Get Up! We have done so, and one thing is clear: these people are eager to participate fully in a real job. The recognition and satisfaction that this brings, the social contacts and not to mention a normal income, is incredibly valuable. We talked to Martine. She went to law school, but she does have a disability. She can therefore not work full-time, up to nineteen hours a week. Because she is compared to the salary of colleagues she gets a supplement to the salary. In the new system, it is declining by more than €400. We talked to Titia. Her son can work up to 24 hours through a social work company because of his limitation. He's getting a supplement now. Under the law, he can lose €150 net. We talked to Alexander. The chances of him finding a job lastingly are limited. If he makes a little money, he gets to keep this income happy. But by the new law, by the new regulation, everything is withheld. This deterioration is on top of the discount of €80 per month passed by the cabinet last year. This deterioration creates even more uncertainty in a group that needs stability and security. It's only when you feel solid ground under your feet that you dare to take a step. What can the Secretary of State do tonight to improve the law? I'll make five suggestions. First of all, turn back the €80 discount. That's what all Wajongers benefit from. Secondly, extend the guarantee period. Give these people more certainty. Because even if it takes you longer to find a new job, you need to be able to relive your old rights. Thirdly, reward work according to capacity and take into account the level of education. Those who cannot work full-time should also be able to earn the minimum wage. If your colleagues earn more, you should also get more than the minimum wage. Fourthly, make sure that everyone can love an income, even if they have no permanent labour restrictions. Fifth and finally, people with Wajong benefits must be able to keep bonuses and bonuses and not turn them in immediately. Mr. Chairman. I call on the Secretary of State to meet these wishes of people and the opposition. Can it respond to these proposals? I also ask the Secretary of State if the plans are not contrary to the UN Convention on People with Disabilities. I ask her to submit the plans to the Human Rights College. This can be assessed in relation to the reduction already made. Is she willing to do that? Finally, Mr President. With the Secretary of State's plans, groups are getting worse. In a rich country like ours, that's really bizarre and unnecessary. Together with colleagues from various opposition parties, I propose that the Secretary of State withdraws the plans, talks again with the people involved and has her plans reviewed. So Secretary of State, adjust your plans or throw them away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. I see another interruption by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	I welcome the fact that Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA also recognises that there are some good things in this law. I agree with him that there are also improvements. I will mention them in my contribution as well. But about the €80, the discount from Wajangers from 75% to 70%. If I recall correctly, the previous Secretary of State, Mrs Klijnsma of the PvdA, decided. Do I understand correctly that Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA says that the PvdA thinks that with the knowledge of today a wrong decision of that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yes. I am going to respond to this in substance. We have had the debate on this on several occasions. We already said in 2017, when it had not yet been implemented and it was in the new cabinet, that the discount on the Wajong benefit coming from the previous cabinet is totally unnecessary. After all, there was no more billions of budget cuts. This is separate from the question of whether you should have made that discount for this group at all. So we also made proposals at that time. As long ago as 2017, we supported Mr Jasper van Dijk's amendment to the rebate, which does not propose anything for this cabinet in terms of money, and it is a matter of failing to implement a few tens of millions of tonnes for this group, because there were now billions of surplus for the cabinet. We supported the amendment, but unfortunately this coalition has pushed it through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	That is a clear explanation, but I thought Mr Van Dijk just said that the current Secretary of State, the current Cabinet, had decided to make this discount. It is fair enough to say that this was the previous cabinet, but I hear that Mr Van Dijk now recognizes that as well. I therefore think it is equally important to highlight this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	It is equally important to mention that Rutte II's plans came when there were huge austerity exercises. Then came a new cabinet called Rutte III. At that time, because of all the surpluses, the cabinet could have chosen not to do so, because the discount was still on the table. By ultimately implementing the discount, the Secretary of State is now responsible. With the SP and several opposition parties, we supported the call not to do so. If you look again at what remains, you will see that billions of euros remain in the cabinet. The cabinet doesn't get the money spent. I think it's about 50 million. The cabinet does not have the 50 million left over for this target group which really does not have a large income and therefore needs it so badly. That target group needs that extra support, that €80 just to pay for the groceries. I find the choice now made by this cabinet rather bizarre.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	I have two questions for Mr Van Dijk. You say there's gonna be cuts. I would like to hear from Mr Van Dijk where savings will be made, because I think we are going to spend even more money on this harmonization. The second question is the following. Mr Van Dijk points out that people who invest in their training and ensure that they may be able to complete HBO or university training will ultimately not earn more than the statutory minimum wage. I wonder where he gets that from. I think it is true that we are looking at the job pay. The function wage depends of course on the function you are going to perform, but at HBO level or university level it is usually above that level. So where do you get that from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	The question of the VVD is whether there are any deteriorations. As a result of the harmonisation provided for in a certain regulation, there are deteriorations for groups of Wajangers. This harmonization means a deterioration in their own situation. I have mentioned all the examples to you. So that can be about €100, but it can also go up to about €400. That's a hell of a lot. I do not think we need to debate the deteriorations, because they are there. We see them too, and that is what we are indicating. I have a lot of criticisms, as you have heard, but I also have a lot of suggestions that we can walk out of here tonight with a good law, a law that has no deterioration. Because that's what you can do: harmonise without deterioration for certain target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	You're saying there's been some kind of deterioration. I think the Secretary of State has indicated that the vast majority of people are making progress. You probably got all those e-mails from all those Wajangers who went to work more and then went into income. That's that weird saw tooth that's in it and it's getting out now. I would like to come back to another point that you mention, that once you have completed a university education you cannot earn more than the statutory minimum wage. That is an assumption you are making, and I am questioning it, because I do not think your assumption is correct. Perhaps I can ask the Secretary of State and explain it again, because if we take different assumptions together, it will be a complicated debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	The VVD actually says that the vast majority of the group is making progress, but there are people who are getting worse because of harmonisation. My point is that in 2019, now that we have billions left, we need to ensure that we harmonise for this particular group without anyone getting worse. And I think that's possible. I've made proposals for that, too. As far as people with higher education are concerned, we are well aware of a deterioration because the level of education is no longer included in the income. The VVD says that's different. Let's ask the Secretary of State. I'm getting that from a lot of places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. It's been about a year since I made my maiden speech in this room. I am going to repeat a bit of that, because it is important to deal with this amendment of the law. I said at that time: "From left to right in politics we have embraced the idea of meritocracy over the past decades; the ideal that not your origin, but your qualities and your achievements determine your social position. That was a big step forward in relation to that old hierarchical class society, because that was the society that stressed inequality on the basis of birth. A dime never turned into a quarter. But the idea, the idea of this meritocracy, has now also led to sharp and inconspicuous competition between people. Because this thinking makes us believe that everyone in life gets what he or she deserves. Those who fail now have to blame themselves. The winner takes it all. And the number of winners is limited." So much for the quote from about a year ago. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about people who have spent their whole lives trying very hard to come along and who regularly worry about whether they can join and whether they are part of it. We often label these people vulnerable. I myself did that in the debate on the VWS budget today. But when I thought about it, I thought: they often have a lot more resilience and adaptability than you and I, because they always have to take that step extra in life. In one of the many responses to this proposal I received, it was very well expressed. In it someone wrote: it is a challenge for me to find again and again the space between not being able but wanting. The government doesn't necessarily make it easier for these people. Because, yes, we have a safety net there tonight we're talking about "supposed" with conditions, formulas and percentages. Then what comes rolling out of that calculator is definitely not fat. Research shows that more than a third of the Wajongers are unable to make a good living on their income. The fear that someone in the Netherlands would get a little too much is often greater in policy but also in implementation than the fear that someone is short. Mr. Chairman. If GroenLinks had a white paper, we would have done it differently. We would very much like to have a different system of social security, a system that is simpler, fairer and that is really aimed at ensuring the survival of everyone, regardless of their situation. But tonight we're not talking about a white paper. We are talking about a harmonisation proposal tonight. However, I would like to assess that proposal on the basis of those three criteria. I'll start with the latter: security of existence. First of all, I would like to say that 70% of the minimum legal wage, the level of assistance, is very little money. So we have organised it together in the Netherlands in such a way that people with disabilities, who have not chosen to do so, live at the absolute minimum social level. If they go to work, then many of them, not everyone, cannot go beyond the statutory minimum wage. That's exactly why there's so much fuss. We are talking here about changes that make the difference between sober living and poverty in people's lives. It's about a cup of coffee you're not gonna drink outside the door, a train trip to a family member, a gift for a girlfriend. As far as I am concerned, it is quite natural that people are very concerned about this. If GroenLinks had a white paper, then we would start with a higher base for everyone. Then we would also like to make it possible to get much faster than the minimum wage, for example if you have completed an education or if you cannot work full-time but you are fully committed. The government's commitment sounds sympathetic: working should pay off. More work must therefore be paid. But there is also, implicitly, some kind of pressure behind that in the sense of: "Can't you get by? Then maybe you should try a little harder." But there is absolutely no lack of motivation for this group. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this group deserves more certainty. Then the following criterion: simpler. That's actually the whole point of tonight's legislative change. GroenLinks welcomes the Secretary of State's ambition to achieve simplification. We also share her desire to simplify the Wajong, but it can be even easier as far as we are concerned. In its Opinion, the Council of State also pointed out: "For a legislative proposal aimed at harmonization, the Section finds it striking that existing differences are not being discussed and are not being harmonised." The Council strongly recommends that the instruments for employers should also be harmonised. Simply put: labour cost subsidies everywhere rather than wage dispensation. Besides that this is easier, this is also more honest. Wage subsidies give people with disabilities a more equal position in the workplace and reduce the administrative burden. I know this is a very large operation, which is not going to be dealt with one-two-three, but I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State if she wants to take steps in this, rather than sticking to a system that is clearly more and more resistant to it. Does she recognise that, in the long term, we need to take steps to replace wage dispensation in the Wajong with wage subsidies? Finally, the third criterion is fairer. Let me first mention a positive point of this law, namely the deletion of the study scheme in the Wajong 2010 and of the exclusion ground students in the Wajong 2015. It is a good thing that Wajangers are no longer prevented from going to college. By the way, I do have a question about that. There are now young people, both in practical education and in secondary special education, who turn 18 and are therefore entitled to a Wajong, but who need this benefit very much, because they have to make all kinds of extra costs from the age of 18. Think of the health insurance and sometimes a private contribution for the Wlz or a director. However, it is difficult for the UWV to award this Wajong because they are not yet out of school and it is not yet clear whether they are permanently disabled. The result is often that these 18-year-old young people leave school and go to day-use. I think that's a very strange situation. The great thing is that the UWV itself put the solution in the execution test of this legislative amendment. They say that the assessment of sustainability is suspended while the applicant is still registered, so he is still studying or undergoing training. At least that way, a younger person can just finish his school. My question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to change this situation. Mr. Chairman. Then back to the "fair" criterion. Although the abolition of the study scheme is positive, GroenLinks has the main objections to this element of the legislative amendment we are discussing tonight. Firstly, we believe that a diploma should pay, even if you cannot work full-time. In the current scheme there is the so-called change of size. This means that if you have a higher education, you also receive a higher supplementary benefit and therefore have a higher income. I think that's logical and fair. Many young people with disabilities, like others, do their best to receive training, so that they can earn a little more later as well as others. In the legislative proposal now before us, the level of education has much less impact on the level of benefit. This has a particular impact on people with a somewhat higher level of education who can work less hours due to a restriction. They will hardly exceed the minimum wage. We don't think that's fair. I am therefore tabling an amendment proposing that the basis of the income system should not be based on the statutory minimum wage, but on the job wage. In practice, that means that if someone is going to work with higher education, he will also receive a higher supplement to the salary. This does not complicate the scheme, but makes it fairer. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks of my proposal. Mr. Chairman. Another thing that my group really considers unfair is that the bill regulates that if you are permanently disabled, you will have to return all the income you get under 20% of the minimum wage. I find it very difficult to understand why this is being proposed. This is a very small group of people. For them it is of great value that they do contribute, that they can work a little bit and earn something from it. I've been getting e-mail from people who plan their whole week around a few hours of work, because they think it's important to be able to contribute something. Why can't we just say to these people, wonderful that you're doing this, and what you deserve, you can just keep it? We are not talking about large sums of money here, but it is so important for people. I would ask the Secretary of State to be helpful to this group, and will therefore support the PvdA's amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the guarantee period. A two-month guarantee period is totally unrealistic. It is already difficult for people without disabilities to find new jobs within two months. The Secretary of State proposes a guarantee period because she wants to prevent Wajongers from changing jobs. That is a good intention, but as far as I am concerned, that period must be much longer. An amendment has been tabled by the SGP, which I have looked at with interest. I am curious to hear the Secretary of State's response to this amendment. Mr. Chairman. So far, I have mainly talked about the content of the law. I'd like to share some things with you about the trial. We noticed that this law was not reviewed under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That has already been noticed by the PvdA. We consider it valuable that this should be done and that the College of Human Rights should be given that mandate. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? In addition, I think that the last few days and also all the consternation about these legislative changes of the last few days show that it is wise to engage again with a number of parties. That is also what Mr Gijs van Dijk van de PvdA just said. Apart from what is or is not true in all reports, it is clear that there is a great deal of unrest. It would adorn the Secretary of State if she tried to take that unrest away. Mr. Chairman. I have indicated in my speech how I see this law. I appreciate the Secretary of State's intentions, but I also have serious objections to the bill as it stands. I'm going to table an amendment. I would like to support two other amendments. I assume that she will take the suggestions of GroenLinks and several other parties with her before we can vote on this at all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr Jasper van Dijk has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr Renkema rightly mentioned a number of requirements which are important for GroenLinks and which the Labour Party also mentioned. I also found Mr Gijs van Dijk's five points very valuable. But what exactly is that about your party? What is at least necessary for GroenLinks to agree to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	That sounds like a question the Secretary of State would ask me. But that didn't happen. I'm here mostly to improve the law. Mr Gijs van Dijk raised a number of points. I have mentioned a number of points. I want to know tonight whether the Secretary of State is prepared to listen to the Chamber and to amend the law on some of these points. We may need more time for that. I don't know. Honestly, I think so. Only when that has happened can I say how we are going to vote on this law, given all the acid and sweetness of this law, with all the improvements that are still possible. I have put forward a number of improvements that are really essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	That sounds good. That sounds trusting. I very much agree with the call to say that this law does not comply and that the Secretary of State must do her homework again, just to put it in my words. Nor do we agree with one or two minor adjustments. I think it is very good that you say the same, because it is very important that we, as a Chamber, send a clear signal to this Secretary of State and that we do not pass such a far-reaching law on a Wednesday evening after 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr Renkema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	I think everyone in the Chamber knows how complicated this law is, but also how important it is to ensure a very careful process. Again, the adjustments I propose are not details. Those are far-reaching changes to the law. I am curious to hear the Secretary of State's response on this point to see to what extent we can give political support to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone must be able to participate fully. Those are fine words and they fit well with a country that wants to be a civilisation. But it also creates obligations, because people who, for whatever reason, cannot work full-time deserve compensation. For example, if you are limited in your abilities for medical reasons, you shouldn't notice that in your income. Does the government share this point of departure? Then we can have this debate in the right way. My group can support the desire for more clarity in the legislation. Over the years, a forest of Wajong rules has emerged, complex and complicated. Harmonisation and simplification are desirable. Besides, it doesn't pay to work for a group of Wajangers right now. Some Wajangers go backwards if they go to work or work more hours. I've asked Parliament questions about that before. It's okay if the point is that working should pay off for all Wajangers. So much for the good news. The bad news is that with this law, a lot of Wajangers are falling apart. We have noticed this in the last few days by the large number of emails we received. The Wajangers ask the question: am I a full-fledged citizen or am I a second-class citizen? Also on Twitter, check out the hashtag #no second-hand burger. I would like to offer you a selection of the e-mails, provided you promise to take a serious look at them. For example, Maaike's e-mail. She was initially pleased with the starting point of the law that work should pay, until she found out that she had lost hundreds of euros. Can the Secretary of State respond to her e-mail? And can she also comment on the action and the letters of the FNV? We just had a petition from the FNV down here. They poured out symbolic water and bread out of a basket containing all kinds of things, extras for these people that are destroyed by your law. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? How does she feel about being part of a government that hands out presents to the big business, cutting the tax on profits, but chokes mercilessly on people with disabilities? Isn't that too easy and a little cowardly, too? The Council of State strongly criticises the inconsistent way in which the law is harmonised. I agree. If you harmonize, why are people with disabilities excluded from the Participation Act? It is a great injustice for people with disabilities to have to rely on assistance and be subjected to a partner and asset test. Everything that a young disabled person earns in the Participation Act is immediately reduced on the benefit, as opposed to the young disabled people in the Wajong. This was set up in the so-called social agreement of 2013 and in the Participation Act of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. Do you acknowledge this injustice? The Participation Act also decided that Wajangers would be reduced from 75% to 70% of the minimum wage. Around antisocial and fatal in violation of the UN Disability Convention. The SP says undo it immediately. Another point of criticism from the Council of State is that Wajongers can revive the right to Wajong for life, but that does not apply to people who are disabled and who have a WIA or WAO benefit. And, according to the Council of State, why harmonise this pay dispensation and wage subsidy? You can harmonise up and you can harmonise down. Three guesses what the cabinet does. I say let's harmonise up. That's why... get rid of that pay dispensation in the Wajong. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Getting a full wage is a prerequisite for full participation in society. It is therefore wrong to leave people with disabilities who work, on the benefit and to leave them with a supplement. Then all the talk about equality and full participation in inclusive society are just empty words. Do you recognize that? The best solution for fair pay is the proposal for an inclusion allowance. This gives people with disabilities a supplement to the statutory minimum wage. It takes people out of benefits and makes them fully participate in society. You know it under the name of Noortje van Lith and of the National Clients Council. Unfortunately, my motion was not supported. You don't want a system change, but the procedure isn't that big at all. I ask the Chamber to at least examine this solution. I shall now move on from the things that are wrongly not changed to the things that are wrongly changed. Then you get to the income scheme that makes people with Wajong go down hard. Let me give you three examples. Maaike is completely disabled for medical reasons. She can't sit long. Still, she doesn't just want to stay home, she wants to participate. She has been working for 12.5 years with great pleasure at a physiotherapy practice for two times 3.5 hours. With this she earns €345 gross per month. This won't be cut off on her old Wajong allowance. The new law completely reduces the income of someone in their situation. She says, "I am now 34. Do I have to be home for the rest of my life? I want to be part of our society and valued." Volke is 36 years old and slightly mentally handicapped. He has a disorder in the autistic spectrum. Since he was 18, he's been working from the old Wajong scheme. Work is very important to him. The practice has shown that he can work up to 24 hours. With these 24 hours he earns €1.090 via the sw company. Through the Wajong he has an additional benefit of €280. He decreases around €150 net per month if there are more than two months between his current and his new job. That is the difference between sober life and poverty, according to his mother Titia. Besides, he doesn't want to spend his life trapped in his current job. Jisca is studying notarial law. She's got a Wajong benefit in the study program. If she has graduated, the initial salary per month for a full-time employment is €2,320 gross per month. Jisca has an hour limit and can not work more than 50%. This means that her initial salary from work would be €1,160 gross per month. Under the proposed income scheme, it is entitled to an additional Wajong benefit of €332. Its total income is €1,492 gross per month. She doesn't get above minimum wage because of her hours limit. These people, and many with them, are caught hard with this law. Is the Secretary of State willing to acknowledge this and does she want to undo it? The tissue for bleeding is the guarantee amount, but this doesn't guarantee much. If someone loses their job and doesn't find new work within two months, the guarantee amount is over. Of the Wajongers who lose their jobs, only 17% will find a new job within two months. Even MPs don't often find a new job in two months, I can tell you. So here again the question why the Wajanger is being hit so hard. Then there's one more technical question. Does the guarantee amount also apply to Wajangers about whom the UWV has ruled they have no working power? The point is that people can participate fully. That's what VVD member Tamara van Ark said on 9 December 2015 in the treatment of the law on the Convention for People with Disabilities. The VVD fully agreed to this treaty. So you would expect this Secretary of State not to make proposals that are contrary to this treaty. But that's the question. For Wajongers like Maaike, Volke and Jisca it doesn't get any better, while the treaty prohibits deterioration. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In addition, the UN Convention aims to ensure the security of life for people with disabilities. The aim is to enable people with disabilities to participate equally and fully in society and thus also to participate in the labour market. But that too is very much the question. That is why the FNV has submitted this law to the College of Human Rights. I ask the Secretary of State, on behalf of many people, whether she is prepared to await the advice of that College before introducing this law. In fact, I am now asking for this legal procedure to be suspended and for the advice of the College of Human Rights to be awaited. That would be respectful, especially since I am now in a debate with the former spokesperson of the VVD who dealt with and supported the Treaty at the time. I'm waiting for a response. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a number of amendments. The first is the extension of the two-month guarantee period to three years. As far as we're concerned, that's the minimum. Much higher-educated Wajangers and Wajangers with an hour limit have been helped with that. The second amendment deals with hours. The amendment provides for a compensation factor for everyone with an hour limit. If you can work for up to 20 hours, you will receive the full minimum wage for 20 hours and you will receive the full minimum wage according to the amendment. The third amendment is based on the maintenance of the continuing working arrangements. This is beneficial for people with an hour limit, who still have the minimum wage after seven years. The fourth amendment deals with the perks. That amendment is still in the process, I must confess, but I will ensure that it is well prepared for the vote so that everyone can take note of it. That amendment stipulates that if a person receives something, for example, if he is employed for 12.5 years, or receives an amount in the form of a profit-sharing, he will not have to turn it in immediately. I remember colleagues asking questions about a Wajanger who had to turn that in immediately. We all weren't happy about that. That too is not properly regulated in this law. My amendment restores that. It also specifically creates the possibility of giving Wajongers who are completely disabled but still manage to work for a few hours a small reward. Since this possibility is also there for the other Wajangers, this will not lead to a poverty trap. Higher-educated Wajangers can also get a bonus above the minimum wage. Finally, this amendment slightly increases the cost of working for Wajongers and people in the target group register. Young disabled people often face higher costs because of their limitations. Finally, Mr President, I would like to compliment you. It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that she gives all Wajongers the opportunity to receive training while retaining the benefit. It will also be possible for severely disabled children to remain in school after their eighteenth birthday, while retaining the Wajong. This will prevent parents from taking their children out of school for financial reasons. This finally implements a previously adopted SP motion by my former colleague, Mrs Siderius. All in all, we cannot agree to this law. In particular, the income regime is indigestible and contrary to the UN Convention. It is yet another blow to the face of people with disabilities. When is the government going to behave worthy of the people with disabilities? When will all beautiful words be converted into deeds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. Every Wajanger knows his arrangement on his thumb, but the Wajong as a whole is a very complex arrangement. The bill is also full of technology. Because of all this technology and the forest of regulations, you would almost forget that this is about people. People with talents who can work to the best of their ability to participate in society. Valuable people who deserve our appreciation and need adequate support. That is why the Christian Union considers it very important that there is and remains a solid, social, reliable and stable regime for Wajangers. Over the years, various regimes and sub-schemes have emerged within the Wajong. Few people really get it or can explain it. It is therefore sensible for the cabinet to work towards simplifying and harmonising the Wajong. With the bill, there will be one settlement for all Wajongers instead of all the various regimes that are now in place. And yes, there are positive elements in the proposal. Mr Jasper van Dijk said the same thing. Wajongers will be able to keep their full allowance when they go to college. Working Wajongers can always fall back on the Wajong, up to the retirement age, in the new proposal in the event of increased disability. And very nice. Every hour you work more, you're gonna get more, while the arrangement is now that it won't survive if you start working more. A guarantee amount will also be set on the basis of your current situation, so that no one will just go backwards if the new rules go into effect. These are positive elements. But there are also points on which my group is concerned. We can see that the legislative proposal has caused a great deal of unrest. Both in the media and in the letters of interest organisations, stories come along that raise a lot of questions. We have already mentioned a number of them. We have just heard from the speakers about the hundreds of e-mails we have all received from worried Wajangers. For example, it is often stated that this bill no longer allows Wajongers to exceed the statutory minimum wage. I don't think this is right, but I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. In the case of income support, the function wage is the starting point. If your job wage is higher than the minimum wage, you can certainly exceed 100% WML. That's right, isn't it? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. I would like to ask her to address this issue very strongly, because this has caused a lot of confusion and unrest in the last few days. I understand that the vast majority of Wajongers are making progress on this bill. I ask the Secretary of State to explain this again and to explain the precise consequences of the new rules, because it is complex and I want to know it very precisely. A second point on which my group has questions is the following. In the cabinet's proposal, all Wajongers are entitled to a guarantee amount based on their current situation and their current benefit. That is a good thing in itself, but if you lose your job and don't have a new job in two months, you lose the guarantee amount and the new rules will apply. Mr Van Dijk said: that is very short. For many Wajongers, this can mean a sharp decline in income. My group fears that this will have major consequences. Many Wajongers work with temporary contracts and do not quickly find a new job. Even the cabinet acknowledges that only 21% of the Wajongers will find a new job within two months. That is why my group has doubts as to whether this two-month period is enough and whether it is fair. If we extend that term, it'll give Wajangers more breathing space, more rest and more time. And they're gonna need it, too. Employers also often need some time because of the administration involved and possible workplace adjustments. How does the Secretary of State view a possible extension of this deadline? Does she recognise that there are Wajongers who can go backwards if they lose their job and their guarantee amount and that a generous warranty period would therefore be justified? Mr. Chairman. Another point I would like to draw attention to is the set-off of extras, which was already mentioned by Mr Van Dijk, for example, a bonus in the event of a good functioning, an anniversary benefit or other one-off additional income. My group believes that Wajangers should be able to keep such perks, without being charged with the benefit. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at this. What is changed by this bill with regard to such incidental additional income? What can we do to ensure that Wajangers can keep these perks as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	There is an interruption by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	I have just heard something in the vein of: there should be room for a more generous guarantee scheme. Didn't I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	Then I'd like to know what that looks like. For we have seen in the past period that all kinds of unions, but mostly Wajangers themselves, have indicated: "Listen, as this guarantee scheme now looks like, there is really no guarantee scheme at all. It's just a wash nose. How the hell am I gonna fight to find another job in two months after I lose my job? And after those two months, I just lose it." I am glad that the Christian Union indicates 'we actually think so too', but this is a debate where we simply want to hear concrete things. So how many months, or how many years is it? Do you want it for one year, or do you want it for two years, do you want it until the AOW age? How does the Christian Union see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u30	I think two months is extremely short. For my group, that is a real stone in the stomach. So we'd very much like to see that extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u31	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'm sorry, but of course that's not an answer. The fact that it's being extended, of course, doesn't do you any good. Suppose you're sitting at home watching the debate and it's about you. You hear an important political party say "this cannot be done this way," but then there is no concrete indication of what that looks like. I would like to hear whether it has been considered, and I assume that it is an important debate, which is what it looks like in concrete terms. How many months is it, do you go to a year, do you go to two years, or do you go to the AOW age? What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u33	I have already said that we find two months really very short and that we would like to see it for a longer time. I am curious about the amendments that are still coming and also about the coverage that is being sought, because that is also part of amendments. In the end, we must choose the best of them, and also see what is financially feasible, including for this cabinet. I'd also like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about that. But I have read, for example, in the note on the report that about half of the Wajangers need 12 months to find a new job. There seems to be a benchmark. But if that is feasible, I do not know, and I would also like to hear it from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u34	I too am pleased that Mr Bruins of the Christian Union says: apart from a number of positive elements in the law, we also have some concerns about how that works. There is also a lot of unrest among Wajangers, who tell us and e-mail us: this means €100, €200 or €300 decline for me. It is all very technical and complex, and at the same time the cabinet is in a very hurry, and it wants this law to pass through the First Chamber in three weeks, because it must enter into force on 1 January 2020. While this requires a proper consideration and perhaps even adjustment. Is the Christian Union perhaps prepared to say tonight: let us keep the law and see how we can improve it, so that it will work in the way we have meant harmonisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u35	In my contribution, I deal with several points on which my group is concerned. I hope to hear from the Secretary of State in this debate how she is dealing with these concerns. I would, however, like to await that answer before I can answer such a politically complex question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u36	In any case, I am pleased that Mr Bruins is giving that space and opportunity, because it seems to me that, given the concerns that exist, a number of improvements are needed. This also applies politically, because we do not have to play a game about it: in the end, a majority must be established in the First Chamber if this is to become a law. I can tell the coalition now, if I count it that way: there is no majority. So if a majority is needed, and if Wajong legislation requires a broad mandate and support, I would say: take your time, improve the law, and then perhaps it can be with applause and support from the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u37	I don't have a good overview of the terms of treatment and the schedule the Cabinet has in mind. I know that we are having the debate now and that the votes are not yet there either. So there's still a lot to be done. At the moment, however, I think it is most important that I first hear the answers and see how the Secretary of State stands in the concerns that my group identifies here. I come to the point of additional earnings, which has also been mentioned by the previous speaker. There are Wajongers who have no permanent work capacity, and sometimes they are able to do some occasional work. Well, that's a good thing, 'cause it gets their contacts, and it gives them self-esteem. My group believes it is important that we do not make this impossible. That is also a concern of my group. It is such a concern that I would like to table an amendment to this, to ensure that occasional income from this group of Wajangers is not fully offset by their benefit. In fact, it is very demotivating if the benefit is cut directly with each small merit. If a Wajonger with a sustainable working capacity does not do paid work for a longer period of time, then it is right that there should be a re-evaluation. But in the meantime, I'd say we should just give them those few occasional jobs and merits. I know that I can table this amendment with a majority signature, and I expect even wider support. I also heard that Mr Van Dijk wants to table amendments to this, and also on a wider range of subjects. It is a first step in the right direction, but I hope that more steps will be taken, even this evening in the debate, in view of the points I mentioned earlier. Finally, Mr President. As I said at the beginning, the Wajong as a whole has become a complex arrangement with many sub-schemes. Even with the harmonisation that this bill seeks to implement, it remains quite complicated. But Wajangers often know their own arrangement well. It will therefore require good communication to explain the forthcoming changes properly. How's the Secretary of State gonna do that? How do we make sure that every Wajanger knows where he or she is when those changes come? Mr. Chairman. As I said at the beginning of my speech, there are people behind these rules, often brave people, who do their best to make some life, stay standing and participate in society. They're people with resilience, people who are really used to fighting. For the Christian Union, it is important that this law gives their perspective and provides certainty and that most Wajongers progress and not decline. I therefore look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to my questions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u38	I see another interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u39	It is not quite clear to me what is important for the Christian Union. You mentioned that the warranty period, the amount of the guarantee, should be longer and you mentioned the perks. But what about the hours limit, for example? Does it also matter to the Christian Union? What are your conditions for agreeing to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u40	I have to tell you, I'm struggling best with that medical hours restriction. That is a difficult issue. That was also a difficult issue last year when we talked about pay dispensation and wage subsidies. There is now an arrangement whereby these people go to 100% wml after a number of years, even though they work part-time. That's a pretty nice arrangement. Of course, there are also people who work part-time because they take care of children, for example, or take care of them. They won't make it. We should also take with us the fact that Wajangers are supplemented by a benefit. But at the same time, the issue of medical hours limitation remains basically a kind of axis that runs counter to that other axis, namely that every hour you work extra should be able to pay. Those are actually two things you're not getting together very well, and that remains a struggle in this file for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u41	That is a very good answer, but it does not yet clarify my question, namely: what is important for the Christian Union? I very much agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk, who said: it is strange that we are debating such an important law here this Wednesday evening. There is a lot of criticism, and there are concerns from society. Well, then it's weird to agree to that tonight, isn't it? I can tell from your experience that you agree with me a little bit. It's got to be a good law, isn't it? You can't handle this on a Wednesday night when there's so much criticism. What are your terms, Mr. Bruins?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u42	The concerns that my group has, and which we want a good answer to, have been raised. Mr Van Dijk has also repeated them and they are correct. Then I draw a line and put a plus sign and add it up. And then I think it is important that Wajangers should at least not be lower than their colleagues working part-time. I also think it is important that people who have now acquired rights should not lose those rights. That is why we must also look closely at this guarantee period. I want to look at the perks and I want to look at the extra earnings of the long-term disabled. Those are all points I want good answers to. I want meat on the bones.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong, who will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr President, thank you very much. Today we are discussing the plans presented by this cabinet for simplifying the Wajong. The PVV is in itself positive towards the goal of simplifying the Wajong by making work pay, by being able to fall back on the Wajong and by making it possible to study with a Wajong benefit without being reduced. But when you make changes to schemes that many thousands of people with disabilities simply depend on, you have to operate extra carefully. Because every change creates unrest, unrest among people who have been dealing with uncertainty for years. Every time the subject of Wajong is discussed in politics in The Hague, Wajongers are afraid of what it will mean to them now. So is this law. We have all received the many letters from delivered people with a Wajong benefit in our mailboxes and mailboxes. That's how I got an e-mail from Wander Gübler. He's 34 years old and he has a congenital physical disability. He has sustained no work power and writes that he is declining with the new plans. He is disappointed in the new plans, precisely because he believes that everyone should be able to participate. He writes about this: "I support the adadium's participation is more important than winning. And to offset some of my earnings with my benefit, I find nothing more than normal. But to be put out of play by the new bill because of my limited employability, I really think that's a bad thing." This guy says he's afraid to go backwards, and he supports that. And with him thousands of other Wajongers, but also many organizations. We have received many calculations over the past few weeks from Wajangers who are deteriorating. And that's kind of weird. Because wasn't it this Secretary of State who gave an interview to UWV Perspective in June and who explicitly addressed those Wajangers? She answered their questions and indicated: "You don't want to go backwards and you don't want to go backwards. I guarantee that." Mr. Chairman. "I guarantee it." The Secretary of State guarantees that Wajangers will not decline in a publication specifically aimed at Wajangers. That's very good news, that's super good news. Frankly, you have to be very firm in your shoes to be able to guarantee that with this bill. Anyway, the Secretary of State guaranteed it, so I'm assuming she will. But I also look around and I also speak Wajongers and not everyone believes this. Can the Secretary of State comment on all these calculations of CNV, FNV and LCR among others? Are they wrong? You guarantee that Wajangers won't go backwards with your plans. It is important that this Secretary of State keeps this promise. We are dealing here with a vulnerable group of people, and nice talk can't use these people. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. It is clear that the PVV is deeply concerned about the financial consequences of this bill for Wajangers. It is important that we take a critical look at the so-called guarantee scheme in this law. The proposed scheme only provides for the preservation of rights in the maintenance of employment. In the event of loss of work, acquired rights disappear if work is not found within two months. In practice, this means that the acquired rights disappear in the event of loss of work. Indeed, the UWV Monitor Employment Rates 2018 shows that 40% has not found a job after a year. But also for Wajongers who want to change jobs voluntarily, a guarantee scheme of only two months is a major obstacle. This so-called guarantee scheme therefore does not in practice provide sufficient guarantees and can quickly lead to substantial loss of income. Does the Secretary of State agree with this? How does this relate to the guarantee given by this Secretary of State specifically to the Wajangers in June? Are Wajongers going backwards with this law or not? I'm not talking about all the Wajongers, but you guarantee no Wajonger's going backwards. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State can still support that. In the interview, specifically addressed to Wajangers, the Secretary of State gives no reason, no reason, to see the guarantee scheme extended for one or two years. So she's totally behind her plans. That's fine, but what do you say to the people who haven't found a job after two months, or who haven't found a job after six months, or who haven't found a job after a year? So, with that new bill, aren't these people going backwards? You guarantee that. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Changing the Wajong again causes unrest despite the good intentions. The PVV is afraid that today's Wajongers will create more uncertainty in this bill. The rules known to them now disappear, and rights change. The cabinet is destroying respectful functioning and legal certainty. That is why I ask this Secretary of State to, of course, after she has answered all the questions very extensively, simply withdraw this law or at least put it in the refrigerator, and to do justice to all the concerns that exist but also to the guarantee she gave herself in June. I'd like a response. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. I call Mr Stoffer, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. After the work is done, it is good to rest, and it is nice to gain that experience after work. But unfortunately that is not true for all Wajongers at the moment. When a Wajanger starts to work more, the pleasure of this can just turn into a shock, when he looks at his benefit overview of the UWV, because that expected income increase suddenly turned out to be a big income drop. How is it possible? It's about the same experience you have as a athlete when after a lot of extra training and an even better performance for inexplicable reasons of the jury you end up getting less points than in the previous game. These are just frustrating experiences, and they do not encourage Wajongers to take a step further where possible. Mr. Chairman. The SGP notes that this bill solves at least two major annoyances and problems. First of all, that is the infamous sawing tooth, the income trap that I was just talking about. The old Wajong simply punishes more work at certain times. We have been approached on a number of occasions in recent years, and rightly so, as far as I am concerned, but a solution did not seem to be immediate. As far as we are concerned, a second problem addressed and resolved by this legislative proposal lies in the so-called continuing working arrangements. After seven years, wajongers earning more than 20% of the minimum wage receive a supplement up to 100% of the minimum wage. Of course, it sounds very pleasant on the one hand that the minimum wage is guaranteed, but on the other hand it means that the government is taking away a very important incentive to work more. On balance, therefore, the SGP is not at all enthusiastic about this continuing work scheme. Mr. Chairman. I would like to explain what four basic principles for the SGP have been at the heart of the assessment of this legislative proposal. First of all, that is the equality between Wajangers. It's just very important. The Council of State rightly states that there is actually insufficient justification for the current differences between Wajangers. Is it fair that one Wajanger has much more income in the same circumstances than the other because he was inundated ten years earlier? The second principle is that the government must do justice to the differences between Wajangers and regular employees. Wawjongs come back to work less easily and less quickly when they have lost their jobs. It is therefore necessary that Wajangers be given extra help at this stage. At the same time, this also means that we have to take into account the fact that many regular workers have to earn the minimum wage on their own. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the government must also be cautious in dealing with benefits above 100% of the minimum wage. The third point of departure along which we have laid this law is a careful transitional arrangement. It is necessary. We must try as much as possible to prevent Wajongers from making a big income drop in a short time. We must also bear in mind that we have made a lot of changes in recent years. Security and stability are certainly important to Wajangers. The fourth and last point is very simple that working should pay off. Mr. Chairman. It's not black and white. It has required a great deal of helmsmanship from us to weigh these four principles as well as possible. Unfortunately, it is impossible to guarantee that no one can go backwards. But that also applies to all the other regulations we have for all the other Dutch. The SGP would like to congratulate the government on the fact that, after years of stacking schemes, it is now offering a proposal that will enable us to get close to a clear, fair and stimulating regime. As far as we are concerned, this bill is an important opportunity to cut down on regulations we currently have in the jungle. But in order to be able to take that step, I would like to draw attention to two issues. The first problem concerns the limited guarantee scheme. The SGP considers the proposed guarantee scheme to be inadequate in view of the vulnerable target group Wajangers. A guarantee scheme should not only allow Wajangers to change jobs, but also protect Wajangers if they are out of a job. That Wajongers in the bill can fall back from 120% of the minimum wage to 70% after two months is really too fast for me. The transitional arrangements should not become a provision for lucky birds, but should be a serious safety net for many Wajangers. Unfortunately, the reality shows that only about 20% of the Wajangers have another job within these two months. Although I immediately acknowledge that there are no exact formulas for calculating the warranty period, I feel more at home with the two-year term mentioned by the CNV and the Clients Council, for example. I have therefore set that deadline in an amendment. I am very curious to see what the government's response to my amendment is. Moreover, I can imagine that a shorter period will apply to Wajongers who have been earning income above the guarantee amount for some time. But I'd just like to put that aside. Mr President, I see Mr Van Dijk waiting a bit. Shall I continue or...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u47	Well, Mr. Van Dijk isn't so close... No, now he's close to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yeah, he's getting closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u49	I do not want to provoke any interruptions; the various speakers pointed out the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u50	I thought maybe he wouldn't dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u51	So I thought I'd take it easy. Mr Gijs van Dijk, for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am listening very carefully to Mr Stoffer and I read the Reformatorisch Dagblad, like every day. That's what I'm spelling. In fact, I read a threat from the SGP, particularly at this point in the guarantee period. It has to be enough to give people space when changing jobs. I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Stoffer. Mr Stoffer can then bet on two years. Perhaps the coalition would say that this might be a little expensive, that something like that would cost a little money and that we would only have to find each other in 12 months. So is the two years for the SGP really a hard, hard limit or is there still room between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u53	Very good that Mr Van Dijk reads that Reformatorisch Dagblad so well. I will hear him later on about pages 8, 9 and 10, but that will come after this debate or in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u54	You wouldn't have missed this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u55	Exactly. I can recommend it to the chairman and everyone: you can also subscribe. I hope that Mr Van Dijk has listened carefully to the words I just said: those two years are not hard for me in advance. It's not math. In the pieces we've been given, we see numbers, including how many people are at work up to a year. Those two months are just too short, because less than 20% will find a new job. But I've been watching. Contrary to what I heard you say later, I am quite enthusiastic about the bill before us, but this is a point for me. I put in two years, but I'm going to listen very carefully to what the Secretary of State says about that. Because it costs money, whatever we can see in everything we've got. It costs quite a lot of millions. So I'm gonna listen first, and then I'm gonna watch you put that down. I didn't just put in those two years. On the other hand, I did it because I'm getting it out of the field. That's where I've been for two years. If the Secretary of State were to convince me that it should be 23 months, then I can also talk about other matters. Well, then it's got to be a little more substantiated. My two years have not been thoroughly substantiated; they have just been given to me. But two months is too short. That's really clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thanks for the answer, honest and clear. Mr Stoffer also pointed out all the unrest that arose and the consequences that some Wajangers could not see, regardless of the guarantee period. I have asked Mr Bruins in my speech and also Mr Bruins whether it is not wise to take a little more time, to have a little talk with the people, to ask the Human Rights College to examine this and then to proceed with proper legislation. The cabinet is in a hurry. The first part of the law is due to enter into force on 1 January 2020 and the second part is due in 2021. Because of that rush, we're probably gonna have accidents. Is the SGP prepared to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u57	Let me be clear about that, too. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't necessarily have to be. When we see this law, we feel that there is really a good piece of legislation here. My real hard point is on what I just named. I'll be right back with a few more issues. I said I have two, and this was the one. Unless you've convinced the Cabinet immediately that it has to and it comes back in second term, I'd be happy to reconsider. Right now, the way I'm standing here right now, I don't have to. I really want to see some movement in this, because there's something wrong for me here. I really like the rest of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u58	The latter is noted. I very much agree with Mr Stoffer that care goes beyond haste in this case. I have a question about my amendment to item No. 8 in relation to the amendment to item No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to Amendment No. 8 in relation to My amendment provides for the guarantee period to be extended from two months to three years, including financial coverage. In Mr Stoffer's amendment, the guarantee period goes to two years without financial cover. What is the point of supporting my amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u59	Of course, I don't know what the cover is. I haven't seen that, but I've also looked at those three years. That's gonna cost more money. For me, those two years are the best. That's a hell of a lot of money, too. I want to hear what that means, because I don't see any numbers underneath it. I only see it for a year. Up there, I don't see what it's worth anymore. I can't wait to see what it's gonna do in two years and three years. I am still open in the debate at the moment. I have just indicated that there is a good piece of legislation ahead of us. The warranty period is a difficult thing for me. But if the Secretary of State is about to hit two years, it doesn't have to be three for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u60	For the sake of completeness, my amendment is covered by the so-called low income advantage, also known as the Primark premium. That's some kind of perverse subsidy for big companies to keep people on low wages, but that's not the point tonight. Your amendment has no cover. How am I supposed to see that? Do you have any cover in mind or is it in another amendment? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u61	No, I don't have cover in mind yet. When we come up with proposals, we like to cover them in general, but in legislation we are always a little reluctant to do so. Anyway, if you've already found cover and if we come to two years, we might be able to use that extra coverage for, for example, raising the defense rate or something. So I do see opportunities emerging. I will continue with my second bottleneck: the medical hours limitation. I've heard them come by before. The government paints the prospect that every Wajanger who works more will also earn more. But that picture is probably not always so bright, because there are Wajangers who can work only a limited number of hours for medical reasons. In this bill, these people are particularly vulnerable. At present, for example, they can receive higher benefits when they enter a continuing working scheme. However, given the expiry of this scheme, they are more dependent on assistance, although a more extensive guarantee period may be positive for this group as well. The SGP draws attention to that income exemption in the Participation Act due to a medical hours limitation. Income can now be exempted up to 15% per month, if I have understood correctly. However, I have not been able to read any further in the parliamentary debate any support for this figure or for any other figures in this context. So I have the feeling that this has been chosen somewhat randomly. My question is whether, in the light of the amendment made by this bill, the government can examine what standards are really appropriate for this target group, which reduced medical hours. I don't make statements like: this or that should be it. However, I would like to see some support for this and that this will be really appropriate for this target group. Finally, I come to the bonus, which has also been mentioned earlier. It is of course very acidic when you see all the financial benefits disappear immediately because you have a benefit. The bill can ensure that Wajongers will retain some of that extra income, but that is different with Wajongers who are fully and permanently disabled. I think GroenLinks will be the first to report it. I understand the government's calculation. In these cases, the benefit is also higher than for Wajongers with work capacity. It may lead to perverse incentives if we completely offset all income to 20% of the minimum wage. My question is whether the Secretary of State sees the possibility of applying coulance in this respect. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I sincerely hope that we will be able to reach as broad a legislative proposal as possible with some compromises and folds. Let's try to cash this opportunity in with each other. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I shall now give the floor to Mr Peters, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes I think as a layman, how could something have come this far? How did we develop a system so complicated that virtually no one can tie a rope to it? How did we develop a system with three schemes including sub-schemes and with the necessary perverse incentives, in which, for example, you could earn significantly less if you start working a little more? That's unusual. It's all right behind the comma, but it's no good. Mr. Chairman. Harmonisation of these arrangements should be something everyone should want, and we have also heard that everyone really wants to do so. It needs to be simpler, more unambiguous and fairer. Now changes always cause a lot of unrest, but from a number of stories that we hear by mail or read in the newspaper, they are full of them.I wonder if they are correct. They deal with people who are in the Participation Act or people with a very specific combination of circumstances. If the reports in the newspapers were to be correct, no one in this Chamber would vote for this change of law. I judge the law and harmonisation along a few lines. People with disabilities should be able to participate fully, they should not suffer from all kinds of rules or obligations they try to push out of their benefit or disability, and we should ensure rewarding work and security of existence. No more and no less. People in the Wajong are not their handicap or diagnosis. They are, like everyone else, valuable citizens who want to contribute to society and who want to stop their own proverbial pants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u64	There is an interruption by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u65	I would like to know what Mr Peters is about the following quote: good communication is as important as good law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u66	I don't know if it's equally important, but it's damn important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u67	I think that is also extremely important, especially since it concerns people who are simply dependent on an arrangement. We can all agree here that it is very complicated, perhaps it is so, but people who currently have benefits depend on it and are generally happy that they have it because they can do their part. Now Mr Peters himself comes up with the story that there is a great deal of uncertainty among the target group, which he also says he wants to help. That has to do with communication, among other things, but also with the fact that there are still so many loose ends to that law that you cannot talk about something that is finished. Does Mr Peters not agree with me that, in the interests of the Wajangers themselves, we should give it more time for the law, so that we do not end up with something that is half-baked, but something that is really resilient for this group and that we should ensure that all loose ends are coloured in? Do you not agree with me that the Secretary of State should have the time to do so, and does the CDA therefore agree with the request of a large group of parties in this Chamber to put the law in the refrigerator at least temporarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u68	I'm always a caretaker for haste, of course. How I'm gonna weigh it, I know after today, after the Secretary of State's answers. I could go along with Mr Stoffer's words. I'm not standing here because I think there's gossip here. There is something that concerns us here, which we hope will be able to take away today, including with the answers of the Secretary of State. Then as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to wait. But care is more important than haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u69	We're not just here the first day in the Chamber. I mean, we are MPs and one is a little longer MP than the other; it's all good. But we all know that the uncertainty that prevails in this group will not be resolved in a week. When we finish this debate tonight, we will have just votes next week. That's right. It is impossible to remove all this anxiety in one week, to correct all the concerns that are justified. So now the CDA says, if we can fix it tonight, it's nice. That's totally unrealistic, isn't it? There's so much unclear. Why don't you give a little extra time for a good law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u70	You just said... um, sorry... um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u72	Mr. De Jong. I wanted to mention your first name; I shouldn't do that. Mr De Jong just said: good communication is as important as a good law. A good law is very important and communication about it too. Even if you did this one more time in a year and then there would be a good law, it is still incredibly unclear for people and still very anxious. So what I want is a careful plan, a good law, good answers from the Secretary of State. If I think at the end of the evening that we have not been careful here, then it is going to be... It goes before me in a hurry, but I won't know until the end of the evening, if it's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u73	Then we have two data: care goes beyond haste and there is a great deal of criticism and there are great concerns about this law. Then my question is: why now, with so much haste, pass this law through coats? Is 1 January 2020 sacred to you or do you say: no, that can also be later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u74	No, as I just said, care is a matter of urgency. Delay won't go in the direction of set-off. But if it turns out that there is so much uncertainty, even at the end of this debate, that we need to do so for a while, then we will think about it. At the end of this evening, we're gonna know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u75	I think that's fair. Mr Peters initially proposed that this debate should take place in a legislative debate on a Monday. He then withdrew it after consulting the committee. That's what graced him. That was good. Now we're here on Wednesday night 10:10, first term of the Chamber; we're not even halfway there yet. I would be delighted if Mr Peters would conclude again: 'This is going very quickly. There's a lot of questions and concerns. There's a lot of criticism. Maybe we should take some time." That would please you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr Peters has nothing to do with what time this debate is scheduled, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u77	No, it's not me. That wasn't a question, either, but I agree that you think that would be a credit to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u78	Excuse me. It is certainly not Mr Peters' fault, but it is a fact that it is now late Wednesday evening and that many Wajongers have asked: can it not be at another time? No, I couldn't. And now we're dealing with a law pretty hasty here. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u79	You ask the same question as Mr De Jong just asked me. And I give the same answer: I barely started my first term and have no answer at all to any of the questions I have asked, so I will know that at the end of the evening. I can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u80	Then we have had the question about time and possibly a delay. Let me now turn to the question of acceptance. I think that the CDA also considers it important that there should be support that is broader than just these four, perhaps five parties in the Upper Chamber. Does the CDA have room to make fundamental improvements, tonight and next week during the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u81	I am always open to any improvement that is well-founded, that fits and that I simply agree with. I'm always open to that, Mr. Van Dijk, even now. We'll judge them on their merits. I have some questions, too. We're just gonna get an answer to that. If anything has to be improved and can be improved, then there's always talk to me. But that does not mean that I agree with everything, I say in advance, because it does not go that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u82	No, that is clear from the bill before us, because it cracks and squeaks on all sides. I know that the coalition can often send in front of it, and apparently she thought this was enough. There is room for more support when it comes to that two-month period. That's gotta be a lot bigger. It's also about earning extra money and the medical hours limit. It is about fundamental points of the law. So I will return to Mr Jasper van Dijk. If there really is room for that in the coalition, then we really need time to do so, regardless of what the College of Human Rights is going to say about this law. As a politician, I would also like that advice in order to be able to judge this correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u83	That wasn't a question either, so yes... I can answer him: I heard you, Mr. Van Dijk, and I understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u84	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr. Chairman. As the CDA reads the law, the vast majority of the people in the Wajong are getting better financially and people just deserve the job pay for the work they have. If that would be 150% of the minimum wage, it would be 150% of the minimum wage and could, of course, earn more than the minimum wage, without all kinds of rules such as the cost sharing standard in the Participation Act. Because, I quote Divosa President Erik Dannenberg, 'you can try to push people out of benefits, but certainly not out of disability'. Can the Minister confirm all this? Because from different e-mails and apps from people I get the impression that outside these walls there is the idea that this law does the opposite and is actually a cut on people with disabilities. Now I'm reading that there's gonna be extra money. Can the Minister confirm that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u86	You have another interruption by Mr De Jong, who is going to do so briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u87	Sure, super short. "You don't want to go backwards, and you won't; I guarantee it." That's what the Secretary of State said about this bill in June. She said, "Wajongers don't go backwards; I guarantee that." Is the CDA going to hold the Secretary of State to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u88	As I've read the pieces, Mr. De Jong, I'm going to ask for confirmation at this point, too, the vast majority of the Wajongers... Wait a minute, I'm really coming up with an answer! The vast majority of it is improving. There's a small group of... Well, "small" is always pretty big, so I get that. There are a number of people who are potentially deteriorating, and that is covered by the guarantee scheme, together with those two months. We're all gonna have to talk about that. That's what I hear very clearly here. I also agree with that, because many people are not going to find any extra work in those two months; that is what the figures also indicate. So when I read the documents, I don't think the Secretary of State is going to say, "I guarantee no one is going backwards." But I'm not the Secretary of State, so you should actually ask her that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u89	No, no, no, no, no. There's a government party here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u90	Well, I answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u91	The CDA is in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u92	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u93	That's right. So I'm going to put a question to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr De Jong asks a question to Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u95	The CDA always has a social face when that comes out, but when I ask for something concrete, it is wiggled to the Secretary of State with a whole detour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u96	No, I'm just answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'm just asking if the CDA will keep the Secretary of State to that guarantee. Now the CDA, which just claims to be a beautiful law in front of it, says: perhaps a small group is going backwards on it. This while the Secretary of State has said: I guarantee no one is going backwards. My simple question is: if the Secretary of State says one thing and one government party says another, isn't that enough reason, or at least one reason, to put this law in the fridge and look at it to ensure that people don't go backwards? Can Mr Peters today promise that he will keep that guarantee to the Secretary of State and what will happen if the Secretary of State fails to comply with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr Peters, and then he continued his speech. Then I'll give room for interruptions again, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u99	I read those pieces, and I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Peters continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. The bill contains a number of good points. For example, it is good that the study opportunities for Wajangers are extended and that Wajangers who study can now retain their full benefit. It is nice and important that this bill regulates that Wajongers who are going to work until their retirement can always fall back on their Wajong law if they fall out on the same reason they went into the Wajong. It is also good to see that the Wajong 2010's obligation to accept an appropriate job offer is removed. As a result of this change, the refusal of an appropriate job offer no longer leads to the termination of a benefit. Mr. Chairman. The CDA does have a number of questions and comments. On the basis of the answers to these questions, I would like to assess the law. An essential starting point for the CDA in the assessment of the bill is that it pays to work and work more. The explanatory memorandum states that this is also the starting point of the law. But it is not clear to the CDA whether this will actually be the case in practice. The CDA has a number of questions. Is it true that the basis for income support is the job wage? How can it be said at the same time that the income support scheme means that the income is at least 70% WML if a Wajanger does not work and up to 100% WML in full-time work? Is it necessary to conclude that someone can never earn more than 100% WML, despite payment based on job pay? According to the CDA, that's not true, but I want to be absolutely sure that's not true. I'd like a detailed explanation from the Secretary of State. The CDA believes that Wajangers should be given more perspective and that it should remain possible to receive more than 100% of the WML, even if you have reduced wage values due to illness or illness. This is all the more relevant as the new rules for Wajangers make it possible to keep the benefit when they go to college. That study should pay off. Can the Secretary of State confirm that this is the case and that working in a higher job scale is also rewarding if you cannot achieve the wage value on your own? I would like to refer to a problem which I see, but which is not mentioned in the newspaper, in the law or in the explanatory statement. But if I am right, it is a serious problem, a problem that, perhaps not today, needs to be resolved. People who work get a so-called employment discount. That's an amount that doesn't have to be taxed. In recent years, this amount has increased and is increasing. That's nice, but people in the Wajong are also entitled to that employment discount. If they work with pay dispensation, they don't get an employment discount on the benefit part. And then things get pretty bad in the papers, because they just pay taxes on that income. In my opinion, while people in the Wajong and in the regular labour market who work for the statutory minimum wage get the same gross income, people with a Wajong benefit get much less from that. That can't be the point, can it? Legal minimum wage is a statutory minimum wage. And that's what I see net, because gross income will basically be my sausage. It's about what's in your wallet. Can the Secretary of State confirm that it is. In concrete terms, I ask her this. Can I, on the basis of a wage value of 50% and a 40-hour working week, have a gross/net comparison of the income of someone who works from the Wajong and someone with regular work? And can I get one of those same equations based on a 20-hour work week? As I calculated it, someone who works 40 hours with the statutory minimum wage can earn €200 net per month less in the Wajong than someone with regular work. You can't do that. I understand that this amendment of the law did not cause this problem. The problem already existed, but this change of law does not solve it either. I'd like the equation before we vote. I've been getting e-mails a lot lately. In addition to people's concern that they could not earn above the WML, and that care should really be taken away today, there is the concern that small extras or bonuses would be offset and thus not be available to this target group. I know that it may seem small and that in practice employers might rather give a dinner voucher or something else in kind, so that the problem does not always occur in practice, but that is not what I am concerned about. What is equal must be treated equally as much as possible. Can the Secretary of State indicate how she sees it and how she weighs the amendment, which includes my name? According to this bill, young people who have been declared unfit for work for more than 80% and who have no permanent ability to work, even occasionally, should not earn any additional money. Can the Secretary of State explain why this was chosen? It sounds kind of rude to me and overreacting to me. People feel unappreciated and excluded in this way. Then there's something about complicated math rules. This bill should make implementation easier. The question is whether this is indeed the case. The UWV and other instances warn against complicated calculation rules. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that it will not be more difficult but easier to implement? We have already had the necessary debates on this. How is the Secretary of State going to prevent implementation problems and people whose income is different from one another from another from having to face subsequent recovery? Then the execution by the UWV. The UWV reserves the right to introduce the present legislative proposal with regard to the necessary ICT adjustments. These are extensive and complex. What is the reaction of the Secretary of State and what does this mean for the intended date of entry into force of the legislative proposal of 1 July 2020? That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u102	Thank you. I see that Mr Renkema has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u103	I listened to Mr Peters. There are three parties in this Chamber that go back to the Christian tradition. There may be more parliamentarians who are aware of this, but there are three parties that have explicitly included it in their name. I have listened to the SGP and to the Christian Union. I've really noticed some kind of struggle with them. The Christian Union says she finds it complicated and calls it a struggle. The SGP says that it will not support this law if it is not really improved on a number of points. I do not really hear that from Mr Peters. He asks many technical questions to the Secretary of State, but what is the final weighing-up of this law, also from that philosophical tradition? They are people who, for all kinds of reasons, do not have it easy in life. I know the CDA as a party that wants to stand up for that. I'm missing that in the contribution tonight. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u104	I'm sorry you missed that. I certainly didn't mean to. I thought I started it, but perhaps you've lost sight of it because of the large amount of interruptions after the beginning. We are here on earth to try to help people who cannot do so independently in life. That's what the Wajong is for. I mentioned the principles on which I am going to weigh the proposal. I want people to be able to participate fully, that they ultimately feel appreciated and behaved and that they can contribute their part in society. That is exactly what they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u106	Well, Mr. Renkema may ask, too, so I hope I have the pathos I do have with this target group right now with him. This is what's important to me. There are improvement points and there are concerns. One of the points is that people can fall back into income if they lose their jobs. That is what the guarantee scheme is for, and it has to work. The question is whether those two months are enough. That's one already. I have a struggle with that, and I want an answer to that. I also asked a number of other questions, because I get the same e-mails, read the same newspaper and also get people on the phone who really think a disaster is going to happen. That is why I am asking very technical questions and I want a very good answer, so that I can refute it and say that it is not, that is the case; the vast majority of the Wajangers are making progress, some of them might be able to go backwards, and for them we have a well-built arrangement. That's what I'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr Renkema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u108	At the point of the warranty period. In the tradition I just referred to, you have Catholics and Protestants. I have a bit of a Protestant question. I have heard Mr Stoffer say that he wants a two-year guarantee scheme. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union thought a year was very reasonable. I haven't heard from the CDA about that. There are two months in this proposal! After two months, a Wajanger must be able to find something else. What is the CDA's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u109	That's too short. That might be a Protestant answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u110	So? How much longer does it have to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u111	We're gonna have to look into that. Two years is a long time. That's gonna cost more. I'd rather think of one year. But we need to see what's reasonable and what's a good cover for it. Was that answer Protestant enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u112	We're not gonna provoke. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u113	Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u114	I'm gonna keep going on this one anyway. Mr Peters is of the figures and of the justification. That's convenient, because we have numbers on Wajangers who lose their jobs and how long it takes them to get back to a job. I can tell Mr Peters that 42% of the Wajangers do not have a new job after a year. We can do some kind of hand-kicking with the SGP later, and then we can pin it down in one year. You'll miss almost half of the Wajongers who'll all fall back. It's the Secretary of State's figures. Mr Peters can read them back in the report. I would like to call on Mr Peters not to make a big deal of it. Let us look at the figures and the real concerns. Then that guarantee period really has to be extended much longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u115	That wasn't a question. He needs a lot longer, I hear you, he needs a lot longer. Yeah, he's gotta be taller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'm getting a little faint from these kinds of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u117	You're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u118	With my input, I try to identify a number of concerns that we have as a party. Maybe you want to get us on board again, then you should keep it up, I'd say. I suggest that the figures show that 42% of the Wajongers do not have a new job after a year. This means that with the new legislation they are all going down. Will Mr Peters take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u119	What I'm going to do is indicate that those two months are far too short. The other becomes a trade-off, which has much more to do with this figure than with this figure. It has to do with cover, it has to do with other things. So I think at this point, a year is a reasonable time. That's a very honest answer, as Mr Renkema asked me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u120	I also think it's bizarre that you'd drop half the Wajongers hard, if you're gonna sit down for a year. But let me get on with it. If you think it should be a year, then where is that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u121	That's not there yet, so I'm gonna wait for the Secretary of State's answers. If we all agree that this must be done, then we can arrange it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u122	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u123	But that is yet another confirmation that we are having a debate here with proposals that you yourself are making, which you have not even completed. I mean, wouldn't it be really weird if we ended this debate here tonight? Do you share that opinion? I also find it very difficult to debate this with you. You want something different than those two months, but you don't know exactly what. Do you share the view that this is going to be gossip in this way, and that we need to do this more carefully by taking more time for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u124	I also had this question at the beginning of the interruptions. What I want, I also said: there are some good things, very good things, in this law, which I am very positive about. There are a number of concerns; those have been explicitly appointed. I have asked a lot of questions about this and I am waiting for the answers to those questions. If those questions have been answered to my taste and good sense, I think they can. If that's not the case, then I don't think that's possible. So I'm gonna give you the same answer as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u125	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u126	I think it's really weird; I think it's really weird. You say, "I'm thinking about a year." That's not even certain. And you do not have an amendment here that we as a Chamber can debate carefully. So you're saying it has to be something other than what's ahead. But what exactly needs to be changed, you don't know yourself, and we have to do it with it tonight. That's not carefully debated, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u127	No, Mr. Van Dijk, I really don't agree with that. There is a proposal for this and I have raised concerns. I have questions about those concerns. Those questions will be answered, and you will ask me, before those questions are answered, what do I think? Then I do put my hands in the air and then I say something about that. Then you're going to say, "But wait a minute, you can't do that." Then let me wait for those questions to be answered by the Secretary of State. Then I can just answer that. That seems to me to be a good way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u128	Thank you. I call Mr Raemakers, speaking on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing an important law in our social domain, the Wajong. With the Wajong young adults are supported in their livelihoods. Today there is a proposal, from the Secretary of State, to harmonise the three different Wajong routes into one single scheme. This clarification is important. Too many Wajangers still don't know exactly what they're entitled to. This lack of clarity makes them now anxious to take up work or to follow a study. This proposal could be an improvement. In addition, more work in the proposal will actually increase wages. As a result, most Wajangers are making progress in this proposal. And that's important. The main lines of this proposal, namely harmonization and pay for more work, are the main lines that my group can support. There are also some fine things that have been dealt with in this harmonization that my group has specifically supported. First, there will be the opportunity to study next to the Wajong. Among others, D66's efforts to make it possible for young people to maintain their Wajong benefit if they are in education are included in this harmonised Wajong. Following education is important for everyone: whether you have a perspective on the labour market or not. Being able to develop yourself and gain knowledge we consider D66 to be an essential part of one's life. We therefore believe that everyone in his or her life should always be given the opportunity to attend education. Since young people can fully retain their Wajong benefit, that opportunity is not taken away from them and they can take their chances through training. Mr. Chairman. My group is also pleased that the proposal includes a period of revival up to the age of AOW. That's how we at Wajangers take away the fear of accepting a job. After all, when the Wajanger loses this job, Wajong can again be called upon. Also, the benefit is no longer limited by the use of structural labour support. Think of support in the form of a job coach or an interpreter for Dutch sign language. Labour support can help to maintain a job. We support that. However, we also read in the letter of amendment that the right of revival does not apply if, for a reason other than the initial labour restriction, Wajong is again called upon. I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Does it understand how many Wajongers have not taken a job in recent years for fear of losing the benefit? What can it do for the group whose revival period has already expired on the entry into force of the law? Does this also mean that if someone ends up in the Wajong again because of a previous contract, there is no right to revival? If after a year it is stated that work is not due to the condition of the Wajanger, is the same indication still valid? And what about similar diseases? Let me give you the example of a Wajanger who first has one disease or condition, and then ends up in another condition. Does that apply to the same revival scheme? That's what I'd like to know. Despite the fact that my group can support the main thrust of the proposals, this is also the time to consider whether we have fully adjusted the balance in the law. My group also has a number of serious concerns. D66 wholeheartedly supports the principle that work should pay more. Nevertheless, we read in the proposal that Wajongers who have no sustainable work capacity and still manage to earn income from work should give up the first 20%. This is deducted from the benefit. This is undesirable in the eyes of D66, because it does not provide an incentive for the group of people concerned to pick up paid employment. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this 20% calculation was also the case in the oWajong and in the Wajong 2010? If not, why has this variant been chosen? Can the Secretary of State confirm that the guarantee scheme also applies to this group, which means that influxers from previous Wajong schemes remain at least at the same level? Mr Bruins has already announced an amendment in this area earlier this evening. We will also support that amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the next point: the perks. This point has already been mentioned by more speakers this evening. The fuss was justified in April of this year, when it turned out that an employee with Wajong had to hand in his bonus at his 12.5-year anniversary because he was seen as an additional income on his Wajong benefit. Despite the fact that the Secretary of State, like the House of Representatives, indicated that this situation was undesirable, we also read in the answer to questions that an adaptation of the situation is not possible because of the transfer to all employees. We find that a little uncomfortable. Can the Secretary of State confirm that such situations can no longer occur after harmonization? If not, what can the Secretary of State do to improve this unfair situation for this group, of whom you should particularly welcome if they take part in the labour market for a long time? Isn't there a one-time release here, as in the Participation Act, for bonuses if the UWV feels that there is a contribution to employment? In short, my question is what the UWV can do for these people. What can the UWV do for these people? Mr. Chairman. Then the guarantee amount. The guarantee scheme is one of the key elements of this harmonisation. Without a guarantee, we cannot ensure that it becomes more transparent without Wajangers getting worse. In addition, it is striking that the guarantee scheme will expire if the income support for two consecutive months exceeds the amount of the guarantee. This means, therefore, that it has been the case this evening that when a Wajanger gives up his or her job, there is a two-month guarantee. This is short, given the fact that in 2017 almost half of all Wajongers who became unemployed still had no job after a year. As far as D66 is concerned, there seems to be some extra breathing space in place. I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Could the Secretary of State please explain why it has chosen this particular two-month period in its proposal? And how much room do we have here for a wider policy? Several possible deadlines have already been mentioned, but I would just like to ask the Secretary of State. I'm just gonna run it by her. What would be against giving a little extra space by making the deadline for that guarantee scheme six months, or a year? We would like to hear the substantive arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u130	There is an interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u131	It's gonna be a little remarkable. In the meantime, there are three coalition parties who are actually all uncomfortable with this point, whatever we have, but who do not come up with a proposal themselves. I know Mr Raemakers, and it would be a credit to him if he said: let us take the figures as a starting point: a little less than half of the Wajangers have no job after a year and choose a justified warranty period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u132	That's what I think. In this respect, I speak for Mr Bruins of the Christian Union and Mr Peters of the CDA: two months is also too short for D66. I want to see how we can better decorate that. If the Secretary of State says, you have to take six months, then I want to look at that. If the Secretary of State says, given the figures and the fact that there's a bit of coverage, take another term, I want to look at that. But it has also been said by others: we have a debate here tonight. We are asking questions to the Secretary of State and I want a good, substantive response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u133	When it comes to this point, I heard D66 right. The Wajanger himself is the starting point. The Wajangers indicate, and the figures show, that it is difficult for them to find a new job quickly after losing a job. In fact, that'll take a long time. The figures back that up. Then I think it is customary here in the Chamber to say: we have to change that, because we do not want these people to go backwards. Then it is also up to the Chamber to say: we want the Secretary of State to make money available for that. We have that right. But I notice that everyone, including Mr Raemakers, places it with the Secretary of State. But Mr Raemakers is in the coalition, along with other parties. They can say: okay, it costs a lot of money to make the space much wider, but we are prepared to do so. In fact, if you look at the cabinet budget, this is about peanuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u134	Several amendments have already been tabled by different parties. I think we should take a closer look at that after the Secretary of State has replied. I think that is important, because we do not only have a debate here as a Lower House, but we have a debate with the Secretary of State. I expect a reaction to that and then we can watch it together. I'm open to seeing what's best right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u135	I think this is a very crazy way of debating things. The Secretary of State is crystal clear. Her proposal is two months. Several parties have suggested alternatives: one two years, myself three years, including coverage. Mr Peters and Mr Raemakers now say: we should see where it should go. That's crazy, isn't it? Secretary of State says two months. What does D66 say? He says, "We don't agree to that." But then there must be a full alternative here or you must say when you come with it. But this isn't getting anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u136	I think we're repeating ourselves. Two months D66, like the Christian Union and the CDA, is too short. Several amendments have been tabled. And it works that if an amendment has already been tabled, then we as MPs have to see how we can agree. The vote is not today. We'd like to take a look at that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u137	But Mr Ramaekers agrees with me that this is very strange. You're not making any sense of your own. You say: I do not agree with those two months. But what it has to be, leave you in the air. Give me some hob or spawn! Are you going for two years or three years? Those are the proposals before us. There's nothing else. You're talking about maybe six months or maybe a year. But that is not the case here, so that is not what this debate is about. What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u138	I think I've made myself clear. Those two months, D66 doesn't agree. There are amendments before us, and I have put the question to the Secretary of State in this way in a debate which would be against doing six months or twelve months. What does she think of all the proposals that have been tabled? And then we can see where we land together. But D66 doesn't agree with two months either. It's that obvious, and it's not different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u139	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u140	Then there are the rules of calculation, because I have a number of questions about that too. The aim of harmonization is to make the Wajong more transparent, but certainly more understandable. However, the UWV does not consider the new calculation method in the harmonised variant to be explainable to the target group. The UWV also calls this the biggest obstacle for this group to get back to work. What can the Secretary of State do to make the new accounting rules comprehensible to Wajangers? How does it ensure that everyone can use the announced calculation tool in time and also knows how to find it? Does this calculation tool also offer the insight into all fees a Wajanger is entitled to under the Payment Act? I'd like a response. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. This law has good starting points. More work will increase wages and the obstacles to training will also be removed. D66 would therefore like these improvements to enter into force as soon as possible. But in addition, like other parties, we have also identified some questions and concerns. The law can do even better on a number of points. We would like to hear a reaction from the government. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you. Then the floor is for Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr. Chairman. As the mother of two beautiful girls growing up, even though I say it myself from now on 16 and 20, I often talk to them at the kitchen table about "later," about what the future looks like in their dreams, about what they want to be when they're really big, standing on their own feet and having to take care of themselves. We are talking about what choices they have to make now in relation, for example, to school and education. Unfortunately, as simple as I put it now, it is not for everyone. Especially for young people with disabilities, this is an extra major challenge. And then it's nice if society is there for you to offer you the support you need to work on a future that is as independent as possible. Long ago we created the Wajong scheme for this, a provision intended for young people who, because of their limitations, would not or would not be fully able to work. It is a provision which it is good that we have it in the Netherlands. After all, nobody is asking to be confronted at a young age with the fact that you may never be able to work completely independently because of your disability. We used to look at what someone couldn't, and the last few years we fortunately look more and more at what someone can. That's a good thing, because despite having a disability, people can still do a lot in many cases. Over the years, the Wajong schemes have been adapted frequently and therefore it has become a very complex whole. The policy review before us shows that it does not actually contribute to the objective that we want to achieve, namely to allow people with disabilities or disabilities to simply participate, and that it pays to start working. We are therefore pleased that today we can discuss the simplification of the forest in Wajong regulations. Too often I was told by Wajangeren that, if they go to work or work more, they are falling in income in the current situation. In addition, young people are hampered in their development, because they are still entitled to a 25% Wajong benefit when they receive training. People are also afraid of losing their Wajong rights when they get back on the sidelines after a while. All in all, this doesn't help to push your best foot forward and get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u143	I see an interruption by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u144	It's true that Wajangers are worried. I think they have every reason to. The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the VVD. And now the coincidence is that the Secretary of State is of exactly the same party. So I think I'm going to ask the next question exactly the right person, because you probably know each other very well. Are you going to hold the Secretary of State to the guarantee that no Wajanger will go backwards with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u145	I didn't read that interview you're referring to. I don't read all the interviews the Secretary of State gives. Sorry, Secretary of State, it may be a setback for you. Mr De Jong is showing me something now, but I don't have my glasses on and at this distance I can't even read it at all. I, too, have a limitation. I hear what you're saying, and I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction. I think the vast majority of people are making progress. That's what I have some questions about up ahead in my story. I would very much like to hear what the Secretary of State is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr De Jong asks a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u147	An hour ago, I brought this up in my own contribution. I've reported the source. You will read the documents before entering a debate, especially if you want to know the position of the Secretary of State, but it is possible that Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan has not prepared this debate properly. If the second party of the Netherlands points out something that is essential to this legislation during the debate, then I assume you will check it. You didn't. You say I don't know that whole quote. What kind of bullshit is that? There's a very important bill in front of it. I have here a quote from the Secretary of State in which she specifically addresses Wajangers at the UWV. It's online. The Secretary of State says: "You don't want to go backwards and you won't. I guarantee that." My simple question is not whether or not you know that quote, but whether or not you are going to hold the Secretary of State to her own guarantee towards the Wajongers, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u148	I think people are improving in almost all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u149	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. We need to assess the impact of this law on the people who it is about and put it off against the current situation. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is a balanced proposal, in which the Wajong is so simplified that work and study are going to pay. Wajongers who now work are guaranteed that they can continue on the same terms as they choose to apply for another job. The VVD also welcomes the possibility now provided for in the law, which guarantees the right to the revival of the Wajong scheme until retirement age. It is a good thing that the obstacles that now exist to work or to work more are in the past. Mr. Chairman. Many of our questions have been answered clearly in the written answer, for which I thank you. In the run-up to this debate, however, there has been increasing concern over the last few days among the group of people directly affected by the changes that the Secretary of State has submitted to the Chamber. Here, assumptions are made that are accepted as truth, which only increases the unrest. Our social security system is complex and as much as I would like to smash it to make it easy, it is almost not easy to explain. Terms such as "statutory minimum wage" and "social minimum" are mixed up, while they really have a different meaning and right here is my concern. In our written questions, my group has drawn attention to a clear and clear communication to the people who it concerns. The target group is very diverse. The rules that apply to a person in the current legislation depend on the degree of disability class and the year of entry into the Wajong. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at the unrest that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u151	There is an interruption by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u152	Since it's ten to eleven, I'm not having the ideological debate with the VVD about what social security should look like. That is where we are somewhat ideologically separated. I will also spare the President that; it is ten to eleven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u153	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u154	It's a very simple question. The debate here is a lot about this very short guarantee period. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan mentioned them as well. If you go to another job and want to keep your rights, you've only got two months. If we look at the figures, it is necessary to extend the deadline considerably, because almost half of the Wajangers still have no job after a year. It is just difficult for this group to extend the guarantee period considerably. Is there room for that in the VVD, the largest coalition party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u155	Let me say this about that. In my view, the unrest is giving us a different interpretation of the guarantee period, which originally had a different purpose. In my opinion, the guarantee period is actually meant for Wajongers who have a job, who look around, see another job somewhere and think "wow, I would like to make a switch'. As soon as they make that switch and receive a new contract, they will be covered by the new scheme. That new contract can mean you're gonna make a little less money, and if I read it correctly, that's what the warranty period is for. That period is meant to ensure that people do not remain trapped in one job because of the finances, while they can get another job somewhere else that they might like a lot more and which they enjoy much more, or whatever reason you can have to change jobs. In the external imaging that has arisen in the last few days, a different interpretation has been given. So I'm kind of looking for that. I have been sympathetic to the fact that there has been unrest about this, but I would like to return to the core for which the guarantee period was actually intended. The moment someone loses his job, which can happen to any working person in the Netherlands, of course you hope it doesn't happen, but it may also have built up Wajangeren WW rights, on which they can fall back. I therefore believe that we should conduct the debate purely on what that time limit is ever intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u156	That is interesting indeed, because the VVD has a very different picture than the other three coalition parties about that guarantee period. That says something about sound plenary debate on Wednesday evening, when no one knows exactly what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u157	I just read the law, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u158	At least I wanted to write that down. Look, losing your job can happen to people. There could be a crisis, a company could fall over, and then you'd lose your job. This scheme is intended precisely for those who lose their jobs without their fault and then look for a new job. These people have an income they're used to, whose rent they have to pay and whose food they have to pay. If you finally get a new job after four months or maybe a year and a half, it would be very acidic, and I think an unintentional effect, to find out that the supplement to your benefit is much lower. Then you're really talking about possibly hundreds of euros. Will the VVD take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u159	I understand that people have the idea that that deadline was intended for that purpose. Mr. Van Dijk says it's meant for when you've lost your job and you need to find another job. My position is that I get that from the documents, too, and I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether I am right or if I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u160	They're out of luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u161	They, like any other working in the Netherlands, are entitled to WW. I have sympathy for what I hear here. That is why we have a debate with each other. That's not because everything is pre-defined and you say: this is it, and we can't get out of this. That is why it is a good thing that we have the debate together and see where there may be room. But if I go back to what that guarantee period is meant for, I will come to the explanation I am giving. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if I have that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u162	I think it is a rather wondrous contribution of the VVD. Tonight I have heard here that a lot of parties are worried. The parties are going to formulate amendments. Parties say they're struggling with this. To date, Mrs Nijkerken, the VVD has done nothing but mention some of the positive points of this legislative amendment, and then say that it is a pity that not everyone understands it and that there has been so much unrest. Is there going to be a critical analysis of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u163	I've got another follow-up, and I'm definitely gonna ask you some more questions, yeah. But if you come up with any interruptions, I can't go on with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u164	Some more questions, you say. I'll wait and see. But reworded: how does the VVD indicate this debate so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u165	Quite frankly, I think there's just a very good law ahead. That is because at the moment there is a very large group of Wajongers who would very much like to work and then go backwards, or would very much like to work more and go backwards. Young people are the choice: when I'm 18 years old, do I go to school and then I don't get a Wajong benefit when I actually need it, or do I just stay home and can't do anything about my development? I believe that these are positive points that are contained in this law, because most people are making financial progress. That's why I'm glad this law is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u166	Mr Renkema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u167	Very briefly. The VVD says there's a good law here. She's actually the first party to say that here tonight. I get the feeling that the VVD is alone in that. Do you understand my feelings? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u168	I don't think I'm alone in that at all. I saw a number of people nodding very hard, I say just for the people who couldn't see that from their position. I have a few more questions. They see them on communication, too. I would like to continue with my speech so that I can put these questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u169	Yes, I would suggest that you do, but I will give Mr De Jong an opportunity to ask his question. Then I give you the opportunity to get a little more upset with your speech. Otherwise we won't be able to get to the Secretary of State at all, and he's had a lot of questions. Mr De Jong for a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. The honourable Member of the VVD says: "Yes, you know, it has actually been misinterpreted. I see all kinds of noise in communication. It doesn't add up; those two months aren't meant at all for the group it's meant for, but a lot of people think they are." So there's something wrong with that communication. The Secretary of State himself said in June that good communication is as important as a good law. So that's where it all goes wrong. Then my question. Does the VVD see any reason to extend the guarantee scheme, which is now set at two months, for example to one year or two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u171	I am very willing to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u172	Well, that's good, but I asked if you'd see any reason for that. 'Cause you say there's a great law ahead of you. I am looking for the reason why you believe that the two-month deadline should be one year or two years, for example. What's the reason for you to do that? What reason do you see? Because the Secretary of State himself didn't see any reason for it. What is the reason for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u173	The reason for me would be support. I just think this is a really good law ahead of us. I understand the concerns that have arisen and the unrest that has arisen, but in my opinion it is because of a large number of assumptions that I wonder if they are correct. I'd love to hear that from the Secretary of State in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u174	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u175	The Secretary of State has previously indicated that the UWV is currently working with people from the target group on a clear communication. I don't think you can really communicate outside until a law is through the First and Second Chambers. I think that also complicates things a bit. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about this trajectory. I would also like to hear about the development of the calculation tool of the UWV, which Wajongers will be able to calculate on their own what supplement they can count on. Can Wajongers trust that the UWV will be ready for them if they don't come out with that calculation tool themselves? I understand last week that there is a group of language coaches operating from the Ministry of the Interior to review and adapt the legal and administrative means of communication by the government. I ask the Secretary of State if these language coaches are going to work on this course. A number of substantive questions. The greatest impact of the present change lies in the harmonisation of income support. Although the largest group of people improves financially after harmonisation, the Secretary of State also indicates in the proposal that the opposite may be true for a small group. It is therefore a good thing that there is a transitional right. Can the Secretary of State explain again exactly how this guarantee amount is set, and what does it mean in concrete terms for someone who is now in employment and is covered by the old Breman scheme or continuing working arrangements? Finally. Can the Secretary of State also clarify the role of job pay in the level of total income? Is it true that this function wage has not been capped at 100% of the WML and that people, depending on the function they perform, can indeed exceed the WML? Mr. Chairman. Back to the beginning of my input. I'd like to give all parents the opportunity to have a conversation at the kitchen table with their children about their dreams of the future. I believe that the present legislative amendment will at least contribute to this. In preparing for this debate this week I spoke with an alderman who himself has a limitation. His life motto is: don't be constrained by your limitation. In line with his motto, I continue to work for a labour market where we can rely on what people can do instead of what they cannot do, now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk has one final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u177	The VVD was a strong supporter of the UN Convention on Disabilities. Now there are serious doubts as to whether the present law is in line with that treaty. Does Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan share my opinion that you should test that before you introduce this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u178	I believe that they have had the opportunity to do so and have not taken advantage of it, as far as I have been informed. Everyone has had the opportunity to respond to the internet consultation, but I have not seen any input from this party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u179	The FNV has asked the College of Human Rights for advice. The College has said that we are happy to do so, but we do not have much capacity, so that will take some time. I understand that it could be given in January. The question now comes again, for you too, Mrs Nijkerken: is it a matter of urgency or is it a matter of care? Do you take that treaty disability seriously? Or do you say, "Well, that's just a piece of paper. I don't care about that; this law must now be rushed through." Care or haste? Are we seriously going to test this law and wait or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u180	Carefulness is always good. I think this law has been carefully prepared. I would be very sorry if the large group of people who benefit from this law had to wait longer before the law entered into force. In that respect, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the time is. In my opinion, a law must be passed before the preparation for implementation can be undertaken, for example by the UWV. The clear communication towards the target group, the calculation tool and all these things must also be started. The longer that takes, the longer it takes for a large group of people to take advantage of the benefits that this law offers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I see Mr Gijs van Dijk on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u182	I think the Secretary of State will need a moment to answer all these questions. There'll be a break. I know that this debate here, but especially because it is so late, is followed by a lot of people at home. I would like to make an order proposal to suspend the debate now, because I want to do justice to all the concerns and I want everyone to be able to follow it. It's mostly about communication. I think that many people are not going to follow this debate at 11.30 p.m. because they have to do something again tomorrow. That would be my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u183	To be suspended until a further debate to be planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u184	That's up to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u185	But not anymore today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u186	I understand the Secretary of State is in a hurry. We could take that into account in the planning, but I would suggest that we continue the debate at a somewhat more timely stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u187	Then I'll have to see if there's a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u188	Mr. Chairman. In conjunction with all the questions that have been asked, I believe that the Secretary of State himself is also wise to postpone. Not only should people be able to follow it at home, but it would also be very sensible for the Secretary of State to take the time for the substantive part of the law. I wholeheartedly support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u189	Support from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u190	Mr. Chairman. I don't feel the rush that's being called. The time is still quite reasonable for me as a Member of the House of Representatives. I've been working for 13 hours. I'm not as fit as a hooker, as it's said here, but these are pretty normal times for the House of Representatives. I don't have an indication yet that the Secretary of State couldn't answer, so I don't know exactly why it should be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u191	I have to conclude that there is no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u192	That there is sufficient reason for suspension seems obvious to me. A lot of questions have been asked and there is a lot of uncertainty. Coalition parties also want to see changes themselves, but have not yet made a proposal to do so. It's over 11:00. If the Secretary of State is going to answer now and we have to do a second term after that, we'll be around 2:00 in the night. You can't do that to the people who are following this now, I think. I suggest careful treatment, so suspend until further notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u193	Support, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u194	Not as far as I'm concerned. If the Secretary of State can just do the answer tonight, I'd be happy to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u195	No support from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u196	Mr. Chairman. Last week, we discussed whether we should not do this in a legislative consultation on a Monday. Then you can do it during the day. There were parties like the SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA against that. And you may say that you would like to keep it in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u197	But not at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u198	Wait a minute. I would like to point out, however, that the plenary agenda is simply extremely busy over the next few weeks and that it will become more and more night work. It's part of our job. That's part of the job. If the Secretary of State can just answer us tonight, which I assume, I think that's very important. At least I want to be able to take the answers from the Secretary of State. So as far as we're concerned, we can just move on. We can just have the debate. It is a fact that the plenary is really overburdened with the budgetary debates these weeks. So no support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u199	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u200	I'd like the Secretary of State's answer, so no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u201	I'd like to join that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u202	As far as I am concerned, it should not be about the time for us, but it should be about the people who should be able to follow this debate. I find the care of this route far more important. Given what has been requested tonight and which amendments are all on the table, I strongly support suspension and a second deadline at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u203	I've inventoried it. There is no majority in favour of Mr Gijs van Dijk's proposal. I shall suspend the meeting until 11.30 p.m. for the answer of the Secretary of State in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u204	The next item is the first term of office of the government. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to agree with you that we do not limit the number of interruptions; it is legislation. It is also technical legislation, so I do not want to do that, but I wanted to deal with it a little bit by subject. So I would first like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer all the questions put by the Chamber and then allow interruptions. Then we will have the debate as precise and as orderly as possible. I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Members of Parliament for their contribution to this bill. I would also like to thank all the people we have spoken for the process, for the preparation and for their practical situation. I would like to thank the people who are in the gallery today and who are following the debate because they feel personally involved in this. I also saw that the colleague, the Minister for Disabled Persons, was present in the gallery. Maybe he's still here. That shows an extraordinary commitment. That is understandable, because today we are discussing a legislative proposal that has the ambition to improve the situation of a group of vulnerable people. I also think it is very nice that a number of Members of Parliament have considered the fact that they are vulnerable people, but they are people who also have talents and the will to participate in our society. It is my belief that steps are needed to remove barriers to participation. I would be the first to admit that this is easier said than done, because it concerns a group of 245,000 unique individuals, who have in common that they know from an early age that they have a disability. The accumulation of past schemes, albeit with the best intentions, has led to a very complex Wajong with many different income schemes for this group of people. That leads to unfair situations. The arrangements are beneficial for some Wajangers and not for others Wajangers. Therefore, making a change is by definition a balancing act. I repeat it to Mr De Jong, who referred to it in his term: everything that changes to an arrangement that is so dependent on leads to concerns, uncertainty and sometimes fear. I think it is a good thing that we have also mentioned this in this debate. I realize that, too, from the many conversations I have with people about this. In today's balancing act, for me, Wajongers must be able to be sure of survival. The Wajong benefit as an individual benefit at the social minimum without a partner and power test is therefore maintained. This applies both to Wajangers who can work as well as to those who cannot work. At the moment, a large group of nearly 60,000 Wajangers are still on the sidelines. Working Wajongers also experience all kinds of bumps and thresholds in their search for work. That's 60,000 people sitting at home. Most of them, I share that with your room. They'd like to get to work. Like you, I receive regular letters or e-mails about this. In fact, I've been Secretary of State for two years now and I hate to see how every day in the ministry in the inbox and the mailbox messages and conversations come in about the worries and frustrations people have. From your Room you have shared some of these messages. What appealed to me personally was a letter from a rightly angry and indignant Wajanger who has been in the Wajong since he was eighteen years old. He's tried to get to work several times. Every time he comes out financially and mentally worse. The rules are now drawn up in such a way that someone who works more can have less left. He compared the old with the new Wajong and came to the conclusion that in old Wajong it hardly pays to work more than three days a month, per month. This is a common thread in all the letters and conversations we share with Wajangers. I therefore believe that we need to take measures to remove the bottlenecks experienced by Wajongers. The responsibility for the whole group, of which 60,000 are still on the sidelines, requires a more understandable and, above all, more stimulating regulation. Wajongers must be helped to have and keep a job. They must be able to develop and they must be rewarded if they are to work more. This was also concluded when a critical look was already made at the operation of the Wajong in 2017. A so-called policy review was carried out. Experts looked at the Wajong. The screening of this policy article was not a lie: it is far too complex. Mr. Chairman. I would indeed like to discuss the issues that your Chamber has asked for under a number of headings. I'll start with questions about the income scheme. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Then I would like to talk about the amount of the guarantee, and then about the gratifications. Then I come to the end and the revival of the law, about which questions have been asked, the implementation and the communication. Then I have a number of other questions. Then you have a bit of a picture of what I'm working towards. Mr. Chairman. I think the rules should be stimulating for Wajangers who are going to work, who want to get to work or who are already working. That is not the case at the moment, is demonstrated by the many complaints we hear regularly. For many Wajongers who are on the sidelines, there is uncertainty as to whether working is rewarding. I'm going to give you some figures. For almost 30,000 Wajongers in the Wajong 2010 it pays to work only if they earn at least 20% of the WML. I am therefore able to answer D66's question in the affirmative on this point. For someone who can only work with pay dispensation, this can be quite a challenge. In addition, the almost 30,000 oWajongers who are on the side suffer from the sawing tooth. It's passed here several times. You do know him: the method by which you get worse if you come up with another disability class because you start earning more. This really causes a lot of uncertainty about the effect of working on total income. For nearly 60,000 Wajongers working there is mainly uncertainty about the effect of more work or a raise on total income. For the almost 45,000 workers, the saw tooth can cause a slight increase or even a one-time increase in income to cause a sudden drop in total income. Finally, 2,000 Wajongers in the continuing work scheme have nothing to do with an increase in income. If you add these numbers together, I hope you will find with me that there are too many people who are obstructing the current arrangements. Because the current arrangements are different for everyone, I have tried to find a balance between income protection on the one hand and encouraging participation for people who can work on the other. Because income is important. It's important to everyone, but crucial if you're so dependent on support. I understand that people are concerned about this. I also understand the unrest that has arisen. I would also like to respond immediately to a question from the VVD about the unrest that has arisen, to which other Members of Parliament have also referred. At the same time, I also see that concerns expressed about this law, which has come out about this law, are not always correct. This applies, for example, to the image that a Wajanger could never exceed the statutory minimum wage. That image is not correct, and I would like to take it away immediately. No maximum wage has been set. There is a minimum, the social minimum. Wajongers who have a high job pay and work relatively many hours can earn more than the statutory minimum wage. The statutory minimum wage is not a maximum wage. However, I would also like to be honest about the fact that most Wajongers are unable to handle full-time jobs and also have a function that is often at the level of the statutory minimum wage. For them, as at present, a monthly income above the statutory minimum wage will not be feasible. But there remains, with the emphasis on "stays," so a group that can. And I think it's important to make the rules more logical, to make them fairer, so that someone doesn't lose their income when they start working more. So adapting legislation like this here includes removing financial disadvantages for many and financial benefits for others, where, for the latter, we have devised a guarantee scheme to remove the disadvantages. At the same time, I think it is very important that when the legislative proposal comes into force, Wajongers who are already working do not go backwards compared to the current situation, even if they switch jobs independently. The transitional arrangement with the amount of the guarantee is therefore an important part of the legislative proposal. At the request of the VVD, however, I have heard all the parties on this issue. I will give an example of how the guarantee amount works and how this also guarantees income, as I say in the direction of Mr De Jong. For all Wajongers who work at the time of entry into force, the UWV compares the old benefit with the benefit based on the new rules. So that's an exercise that's about all the working Wajangers. And if the benefit under the new rules were lower than the old benefit, then the Wajanger would receive a guarantee amount, for example if someone is now in the Breman scheme. The Wajanger continues to claim the amount of the guarantee if he or she continues to work in the same job with the same number of hours or more hours. And even if the Wajanger changes jobs and the intermediate period is less than two months, they continue to claim the guarantee amount if he or she goes back to work. If the Wajanger loses his job, he or she falls back on the basic benefit as in the current situation. That's 70% of the WML. That is not something new; it is happening now. This decline in income is not caused by the new law, but by the loss of work. And if it is not possible to get back to work within two months, but at a later date, then the new rules on supplementing wages apply and the guarantee amount no longer applies. Several parties have called for attention to be paid to the two-month deadline. This two-month period has been created to prevent Wajongers who are already working from falling back on the current situation when the legislative proposal comes into force when they switch jobs independently. I would like to prevent Wajangers from changing jobs for financial reasons only, as it hampers their mobility in the labour market. I heard the room right. There are many thoughts about a longer term, and I agree with you, because the dilemmas I have heard in the Chamber today have also been on my desk. They have also been on the tables to which I have spoken with the interest groups and with people from the target group themselves. The reason why I have chosen this term, even though I can sympathize with the Chamber in terms of justice, is that in the longer term it will also increase the differences between Wajangers who have a job at the time of entry into force and the other Wajangers. For the first group has an opportunity to receive a higher benefit in the event of loss of work and rediscovering it within the prescribed period, on the basis of the old rules, while the other group is directly covered by the new income scheme when it comes to finding a job. That's why I made that choice. I understand very well that the Chamber is a co-legislator on this point and can therefore also change the law. But I would also like to say that this point has financial implications. Where this law, I repeat, is not a austerity rule, it is even more important, on a number of points, that additional funding should be allocated for this purpose. I will give that consideration to the Chamber, even though I understand the concerns expressed by the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u206	Are you at the end of the point guarantee scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u207	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u208	The Secretary of State says she listened very carefully to the Chamber. What's her conclusion? Is she going to make a letter of amendment? To what extent is it going to extend the guarantee period, to what period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u209	The proposal I made, I think, is balanced. It prevents another difference between different people with the same situation. At the same time, I know that the Chamber has a role as co-legislator. However, given the financial consequences, which I do not have within the mandate other than the pluses already contained in this bill, I am not mandated to send a letter of amendment to that effect at the moment. I can't make the proposal myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u210	That leaves us with two amendments, namely those of Mr Stoffer and myself. Mr Stoffer asked for an extension to two years. I am asking for an extension to three years, with financial coverage, as you have heard in the first term. Are you going to embrace one of the two amendments? Then it makes sense to continue the debate. Otherwise, if you do not do so, it is a great question of how this debate should proceed. Because then you know that a very large majority of the House says: we do not agree with two months. But what it will be is completely unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u211	I understand the question very well. At the same time, I think it is up to me to defend the proposal that lies here. Let me say this about that. I heard the room right. I am not standing here defending a law from great ideological viewpoints. I want to improve the situation of a lot of people who are currently side by side, and I want to ensure that we reduce the negative effects that there are when you propose a law for such a large heterogeneous group, with a guarantee scheme to the current situation. That's the cabinet's proposal. At the same time, I see that there are different ideas from the Chamber about what you would like to do with the Wajong or with other disability schemes or regulations for people with disabilities. I have imagined for myself that this bill is a step in the right direction. I hope that in the end the Chamber will see that in the weighting. Let me call it a T-junction. Behind that T-junction, many roads will separate again, but I hope that with the clarification I give in this period, I will show that this is a step in the right direction. I can also imagine that the parliamentary groups agree on a number of points. Then that's a reality for me that I want to look at. As far as justice is concerned, I feel bound up with the issues put forward by the Chamber, but the mandate I have, including the financial mandate, does not at present give me the room to carry out an enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u212	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr President, I am looking at you now. A special situation is now emerging. The Secretary of State says: I can imagine the Chamber itself coming up with a proposal. Once again, the Chamber has put forward two very clear proposals. I have not yet heard that the Secretary of State accepts these two proposals. We will then find ourselves in a black hole and I do not think this debate will make any sense until the Chamber comes up with a proposal for which there is a majority. So, Secretary of State, do you embrace our amendments or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u214	I wanted to come to the end of an assessment of the amendments. But as far as I'm concerned, it's a total story, a story that's made up of a lot of different aspects. Apart from the income scheme and regardless of the guarantee scheme, there are a number of other aspects that allow people to experience that they can go back to studying, for example, or that there is right of revival. In addition, just outside the scope of this law but relevant to the target group, we also have the job agreement, which enables us to offer a real view of employment. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to make that whole weighting when it gives its opinion on the amendments and that during this period I will have the opportunity to answer each of the questions that have been asked, so that the Chamber can make a total weighting. I can imagine that the time limit depends on the other elements of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u215	Unfortunately, I have to join Mr Jasper van Dijk. It's getting more and more unclear. The coalition parties cannot indicate what they consider desirable in terms of guarantee period. The Secretary of State can't do it either. A substantive justification was requested from the Secretary of State himself in her report. What about those Wajangers, assuming we don't want large groups going backwards? I heard the Secretary of State right. The Secretary of State himself writes that almost half of the Wajongers have no new job after a year, if they lose their jobs. This means that the Secretary of State could say to this group substantiated: we are going to extend that guarantee period for you as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u216	At the moment, under current legislation, someone who works with the Breman scheme earns 120% of the wml and loses his job, falls back to 70% of the wml, i.e. to the social minimum, being the Wajong benefit. If he gets another job that is, for example, at 100% of the wml, he gets no supplement. That is the current situation. Today, at least, I would like to show to the Chamber that there may still be discussions in the open in which there may be differences of opinion, but I hope that I can convince the Chamber that this legal process will at least improve the current situation of people who are confronted with these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u217	However, I believe that the SGP has quite rightly said that it is in favour of a majority, that it is quite willing, as a SGP, to see if it can support it and vote for the law, but that there is a very hard point. That is the lack of support for the guarantee period. Now that's two months and people who have to deal with it themselves indicate that this is far too short. It gives way too much uncertainty. We are now in the first period of the answer by the Secretary of State and we still do not know which direction it is heading. Nor does the Secretary of State himself give any explanation. I'm just looking for justification: what is a wise warranty period? Everyone agrees that two months is too short. Can't the Secretary of State give us some insight, with the figures in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u218	I have gone to this debate as I have started this whole process. That trajectory has been going on for quite a long time. I started from the idea that it is my hope and wish for the target group to achieve the broadest possible alignment of this law. I think this is important for the target group. I want them to see that politics unites for them. Of course I can count to the First Chamber. But more importantly, I think that people know that legislation that is relevant to them is widely supported. I'm just being very open and transparent for a while. For this broad representation it is good to look for support. In my view, I also saw in the interplay between coalition and the broad opposition that there are issues that are said to be mutually beneficial. That could be a gain for me in terms of acceptance. Because I think that's very important. In that light, I also think it might be up to the Chamber to consider it. I'll just say: can you give me the room to answer all the questions? This is, after all, one element of the law, but many questions have been asked and I can imagine that my answer to questions about people who are permanently disabled is also relevant. Questions have also been asked about the recovery period. I imagine the Chamber would like to give a final opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u219	Mr De Jong has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr President, thank you very much. My proposal is as follows: I would like the Secretary of State to know that she is already assessing the amendments that have just been discussed. Why? We are the controlling power here and we have the idea that the assessment of the amendment will make it easier to assess whether or not the law in its present form has a chance of success. That is why my proposal would be to give an immediate assessment of the amendments tabled by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u221	I'm definitely willing to do that. I'm gonna go check on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u222	Me too. I should like to mention the amendment numbers. Stoffer's amendment is the amendment to item No. 10, which has been replaced by Stoffer's and Baudet's amendments to part No. 12. The amendment by Jasper van Dijk is the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u223	Yes. The amendment in part No. 8 by Mr Jasper van Dijk I must advise against. The three-year deadline ensures that the differences between Wajongers who would enter the law on 1 January 2021 have a job and the other Wajongers are increasing. The first group has an opportunity to receive a higher benefit once again on the basis of the old rules in the event of loss of work and rediscovering work within the prescribed period. The other group is directly covered by the new income scheme when it comes to finding a job. This affects the principle of equality and therefore goes beyond regular transitional law. As the term is stretched further, three years is a long-term debt instrument, the inequality between Wajongers and Wajongers working at the time of entry into force becomes greater. The amendment also has financial implications. The note on page 27 of the report shows the costs involved. Until 2025, it would amount to a cumulative amount of 84 million euros. Mr Stoffer's amendment extends the guarantee from two months to two years. I should also advise against this amendment, with the same basic reasoning. I would point out, however, that the deadline is shorter, so that inequality is also reduced. In addition, the amendment has less financial consequences, as it would amount to EUR 67 million cumulatively for two years. In the note on the report, the Chamber asked what it costs. For one year it would be EUR 48 million. Sometimes an amendment has to be discouraged because you really do not like it, and sometimes you have to dissuade an amendment, although that also appeals to your sense of justice, because there are other reasons for saying on the part of the government that the amendment cannot get the judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u224	Then I have another order proposal. The Secretary of State has now rejected two amendments which address the guarantee scheme, which is the most important pain for all parties here. We cannot go on now, because there is no proposal from the cabinet or from the cabinet parties to do something about that time limit, which is important for the majority of the Chamber. I therefore appeal to the reasonableness of both the coalition parties and the State Secretary himself to postpone this debate until further notice, until there is a response from the State Secretary in the form of a letter, which the parties can then consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u225	I'm going back to inventory, but I'm not gonna do this five times in the first term. You've given me a basis and a reason, so I'm gonna see if there's a majority for that, but I'm not gonna do this every 15 minutes. Mr Rameakers, in response to this order of business proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u226	Mr. Chairman. Dualism means that a cabinet can discourage an amendment, but that parliamentary groups make their own judgements on it. We'll do the same. As far as we are concerned, we take note of the fact that the cabinet has discouraged these amendments, but we will nevertheless make our own considerations. We are also very curious about all the other issues we have raised. We would therefore like the Secretary of State to be able to proceed with the reply. So no support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u227	No support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u228	Mr President, there is no support for me either. In my first term, I tabled an amendment based on a two-year deadline. I think that a two-month deadline is really too short. For all Wajangers, on average about 20% return to work within two months. I think that's far too little. I've indicated that I'm going to bet on two years because I'm getting that out of the field. I've got numbers up to a year. Then you see that 50% to 60% of the Wajangers are at work. What happens between a year and two years? I would like to hear more about the substance of this. Then I will consider whether to maintain the amendment or to consider it as a justification for reducing it to a little bit less. Then, as Mr Raemakers points out, we can see what can happen. I've certainly seen space at D66, because it's not happy with those two months either. So, as far as I am concerned, I would like some more substantive justification. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we can continue with the debate, because I also want to know the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u229	So no support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u230	Mr. Chairman. I made it clear in my first term how I feel about the two-month guarantee period. I also hear that the Secretary of State insists on the proposal she has put forward. I think that's very clear. For me, therefore, there is no ambiguity in the debate. As far as I am concerned, we can go through with this. But I'll also draw my own conclusions if it stays the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u231	So no support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u232	No support. I think we're good to go. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u233	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u234	Unfortunately, I have to conclude that it's actually a big gang. It's gonna be some kind of shadow game behind the scenes here. I'm not going to cooperate with that, so I support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u235	Support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u236	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, colleagues and the undersigned asked colleagues about 89 times what the alternative would be. You did not want to answer that, nor did you want to answer our amendments. So we speak in the air. We therefore support Mr De Jong's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u237	No support for the order proposal, but I have to say that I am starting to find the debate more and more amazing. I have the feeling that the Secretary of State, who is going to answer a lot of questions, is standing here with the message: this is what it is. We're on a T-split and we're not gonna discuss all the views. But we need to find something of this law now. I am afraid that the initiative will soon be fully taken by the Chamber to come up with alternatives for next Tuesday, and it is also said that these are other considerations. I've really listened to the Secretary of State. She is talking about justice, but she is also talking about money and that there are other considerations than substantive ones not to go along with some of the very reasonable amendments that lie here. They've both just been dissuaded, and that's strange to me. I think it's a very strange debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u238	No support for the order proposal, I have to conclude. There is also no majority in favour of Mr De Jong's procedural proposal. We are not going to continue with order proposals, so we are going to continue with the debate. We were at Mr Stoffer's substantive interruption, but I do not know if he wants to interrupt his substance now. No, he just did. Then the Secretary of State may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u239	I'll see if we can put a number on it. We'll figure that out right now, and as soon as I know, I'll let you know. I hope that will be during this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u240	We are now on the deadline for the guarantee scheme. I'm just gonna have to get rid of some confusion. The Secretary of State has just said that, in principle, a lot of people are making progress with the proposal before us. Now, when you lose your job, you fall back to 70% of the wml. But the moment you get another job, you just fall back into the current benefit situation. It will be a kind of ghost game, but it is equally clear: the people who are affected by this proposal by the cabinet will go backwards in the event of a new job in income if they take longer than two months. So it's called a deterioration. It is important to note that. I heard the Secretary of State say it, too. So if you don't extend the deadline, we're talking about a deterioration and a decline for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u241	I would like to clarify the facts of the reasoning I follow. I am motivating everything according to the legislation that is in place in relation to the current legislation. As an example, if you lose your job under current legislation, with which you had the Breman scheme at 120%, you fall back to 70% and that if you go back to work, that can be quite a job with which you end up at 100%. Then there is no addition. The fact that there is a transitional arrangement is a guarantee that if you find a new job within two months, you will remain at the old level. So it is not a deterioration. I think it is important not to compare the two things of two systems, but simply to look at the situation, the situation in which the present proposal is in what situation and then the comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u242	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u243	That doesn't make any sense. In the current scheme, the moment you get a job again, you can claim the benefit you had. So you fail the moment you don't have a job and you go back to that level when you do. That's the situation. I'd like to make that right. The Secretary of State has just said that it is a retrograde step for that group if you do not fall into that guarantee period. Isn't that what the Secretary of State literally said here? So that means that part of that group is falling in income. We just need to write that down for the debate. So that means a deterioration for part of the Wajong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u244	If I'd said that, which I can't imagine, it might be good to tell you what's going on right now. It does not change in relation to the current situation. It is not an income drop-off from a new scheme. It's a loss of income from losing your job. That's what's going on. In the current situation, you may indeed move from a job of 120% to a job of 100%. And then there's no addition. This situation may arise under the current law. So compared to the current law, there is no deterioration when one goes from one job to another, because it may be that the job is of a different nature, which means that there is a different function and another wage on it. That's right. However, in order to ensure that people do not remain in their jobs for financial reasons or deteriorate due to the new law, we provide for that individual guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u245	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u246	But why would it cost so much money if we wanted to fix that? Does that amount fall out of the sky? Are those official charges? It's a loss of income for those people that they do now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u247	Once again, I have asked the questions that the Chamber has asked myself. But this is what at some point the calculators calculate in the measures. I have calculated to the Chamber in the note on the basis of the report the cost of extending this measure. These are the costs I have to work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u248	Exactly. You've turned that in very neatly. Extending the guarantee to two years costs 67 million and to one year 48 million. You put it so to speak on the dot of the Chamber. All we have to do is cover him up. But then you can't insist that things aren't getting worse? It costs EUR 48 million to extend the guarantee amount to one year. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u249	Extending to one year of the period during which the amount of the guarantee is granted costs 48 million. But I have indicated that the loss of income compared with the current situation is not the result of the scheme but of job losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u250	In the old situation, if you get a new job, you can get back to the old level. That goes away after two months. That's your proposal. If you don't find a new job in two months, you're gonna fall all the way back into your income. That's what the Chamber is worried about right now. You say, well, okay, you can extend that to one year; that costs you almost 50 million. It can also go to two years: 67 million. It can go up to three years: 84 million ounces from my head. That costs money, indeed, but then we have a civilised proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u251	Again, it may also be now that someone falls back on that 70% wml, which is the Wajong benefit, and then accepts a job that rewards less, for example 100% wml. Unfortunately, I am also familiar with examples of this. So that is not a different situation from today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u252	We'll get to the gratifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u253	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. In addition to the amount of the guarantee, the Court has also called for attention to be paid to the settlement of gratifications. I understand the desire of several parties not to set up a set of gratifications against the benefits. At the same time, I do run into the limits of feasibility and enforcement. With the new income scheme, Wajangers retain at least 30% of the monthly income when receiving gratifications, while in the current situation, too, I say again that many gratifications are fully offset. With the UWV I have looked extensively at the possibilities of releasing the extras, but unfortunately it has turned out that there are no viable or enforceable alternatives besides adjusting the Pay Tax Act. The main reason for this is the lack of reliable information on the actual level of the gratifications. This means that the process of finding out what information there is at the Wajanger and at the employer can only be designed manually, and that brings with it a lot of risks. The option of exempting other extras in addition to the benefit for 25 or 40 years in service would therefore be generically extended to other workers. The cabinet therefore considers it disproportionate. Mr. Chairman. I had two specific questions about income. Mr Peters explicitly asked whether it was right that the job wage should be the basis for income support. The answer to that is yes. I had already answered that question and passed. And I hope I have indicated a number of times that 100% wml is certainly not the upper limit. Then many parties have asked questions about earning extra money without this being offset by the benefit, by Wajongers with sustainable no work capacity. I find it annoying that working for this group only pays to a certain extent. At the same time, these are people who have no sustainable employment opportunities. It is precisely for this reason that the starting point for them is different, because they receive a benefit of 75% wml. Since the benefit for people with no sustainable potential starts at 75% wml, working is only paid when the working income is higher than 20% of the wml. From that moment on, they will have the same income regime as for Wajongers with working capacity. If we make a separate income scheme for people who have no sustainable potential, then I see the risk of a Wajanger being transferred to a category of work capacity after a re-evaluation and then falling in income. I'd like to avoid that. In this small block, I would also like to answer a question from Mr Stoffer: how many people have a job in two years' time? In the Employment Participation Monitor, the UWV indicated that 58% of people will return to work within one year and around 68% within two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u254	Are you at the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u256	Mr De Jong has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u257	With the new proposals, the Breman and Maatman regulations will cease. For example, your level of education will be looked at. If one finds nothing after two months, he falls into a new arrangement, in a new story of the harmonised Wajong. The Breman and Maatman regulations will no longer apply. Given the number of hours and not the level of education, this can lead to a loss of income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u258	That depends on what situation. In the current situation, too, a person may lose his job and reach 70% wml. From that arrangement, there is no compensation. That is no different from the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u259	The difference is, the moment he finds a job, he can't use that Maatman and Breman anymore. He can't use that anymore. He could in the old situation and in the new situation he couldn't. Something's changing there. You say that depends a little on the situation. So that's not guaranteeing someone's income. I ask my question again. Could it stop this Maatman and this Breman arrangement mean that after those two months in income, someone's going backwards, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u260	I think I understand what Mr De Jong wants to do here. He has quoted several times from an article in which I said: I guarantee this with this law. That is also true if you compare the situations in the new law with the situations in the old law. This also applies to this example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u261	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u262	I'm really sorry. I'm not trying to do anything, I didn't do those statements for the UWV. I am concerned that the Secretary of State says that on the basis of the current situation nothing changes. My question is simple. Stop the Breman and Maatman arrangements. That Wajanger won't be able to use it after two months. It looks at the number of hours and not at the level of education. That could mean he can get less money at the time, because he can't use that Maatman and Breman arrangement. Is that a yes or is that a no? If you say, "No, that's really not the case, there's no change in that income at all, there's nothing wrong with it," then I'd like to get a written explanation. Stopping the Maatman and Breman schemes can do something about the income, because the level of education is not included. In other words, could this change in income cause someone to deteriorate, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u263	The answer to the question you wanted a simple answer to is no. I'm gonna go into tech for a little while. I have said that no one is going backwards from the current situation. The formula used is really in the underwater shield. That is not the type of communication we want to do with the Wajongers themselves. This formula includes the benefits of the Breman scheme for the entire target group. I do not want to go into too much technique, but that is why the current situation is positive for a lot of people. In reply to Mr De Jong's question, I keep saying that if people lose their jobs, this will lead to a loss of income, both in the current situation and in the proposed situation. That's the same thing in both cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u264	I have a question about people who have no sustainable work capacity. I used the word "coulance" for that. Mr Stoffer of the SGP also used that word. This is a check-up question. Do I understand why the Secretary of State says that, in the new situation, too, I am punishing extra income from people who do not have a sustainable working capacity, because it is again offset by their benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u265	This is a very difficult dilemma for me. I'm getting reports about this, too, and I'm talking to people about this. The reason I find it such a difficult dilemma is that you run the risk of being re-evaluated in another category. This group is in this category for a reason. I would be willing to look for a solution to this, but I have not yet found it. I've heard some suggestions from the Chamber. But at least I would like to avoid that risk, because in the long term we may be short-sighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u266	I've spoken to several people about this. For them it's about being able to show their own environment and themselves: look, I can just make a little money, and now you have to turn it in. That's the image people have, and that's not good. I think it's up to the UWV to say you need to be re-evaluated if that amount gets too large. But the UWV is controlled on this point by the Secretary of State, isn't it? Then there's part of the solution, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u267	Yes, and I am really sensitive to this; perhaps you will also notice me, Mr President. Indeed, I see the dilemmas behind this. I would suggest that I look back at this later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u268	This will be dealt with in the second term or later in this period. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u269	I'd like to touch on the point Mr. De Jong just brought in. Here's what he said. Suppose you have the Breman scheme and you lose your job. You lost your job, and after two or three months, or four or five months, you'll find something new. If you're even more educated, you won't make it through. But just so we're clear, the new income support scheme for people in jobs is based on job pay, right? That function wage is the same as for someone who has no limitation. After all, it's about the job you're going to perform. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the job pay is the basis on which income support is calculated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u270	Yeah, that's right. Looking at training courses: if you have obtained an education that normally leads to a job with a higher salary, that will also be the case. Then it is true that it is a question of job pay. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u271	I am glad that the Secretary of State confirms this, because I think Mr De Jong has just made an assumption on this point which I thought could not be right. Well, that's true, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u272	The Secretary of State continues with the following theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u273	Mr. Chairman. Another important pillar of the bill is the adaptation of the ending and revival of the law. I have noticed that among many Wajongers but also in their surroundings there is a fear that they will lose their benefit if they start working. In the direction of Mr Raemakers, I say that I do not have any figures on the number of people who have not accepted a job in recent years because they were afraid of losing the benefit, but I have been called upon to do so very often. Wajongers have often told me that they choose not to work because they are afraid that they will not be able to fall back on the benefit if, for whatever reason, they fall out. These signals also come in regularly with UWV and SZW. I'd like to take away this fear. That is why I want to extend and broaden the right of revival. In the first instance, therefore, I have announced an extension of the period during which the right can be revived. In the Chamber's report, the Chamber broadly indicated that this would not in its opinion be sufficient to actually remove the fear. That is why I have presented a letter of amendment to your Chamber. This has the effect that when the right is resurrected, it is no longer necessary to trace the cause on which a young disabled person was previously entitled to income and labour support. Mr Raemakers asked me what I can do for the group whose revival period has already expired at the start of the law. For the people of whom the right to Wajong has already ended five years before its entry into force, the right to Wajong may still be resurrected if they fail after the entry into force of the law. Of those whose rights have ended more than five years ago, they may fall back on WW if they are employed and dismissed. For people who fail due to illness, they are entitled to payment of wages and, where appropriate, to WIA. The amount of this allowance shall be at least 70% of the wage or daily wage during the wage-related benefit. Moreover, in practice, the right to Wajong hardly ends, so that the question of whether the right to Wajong can be revived is not raised in many cases. But I think it is so very important that people have this assurance, that I have taken over the proposal from your Chamber and proposed it to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I still have a lot of lyrics about Wajong and study, we also found that a very nice part. But if I remember correctly, I did not hear any questions about it but received much support for it. So I won't take it entirely because of time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u274	No, I didn't hear those questions either. The Chamber does not need to answer unasked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u275	No, but I do like it very much that the Chamber, including those members who had a critical input, also took this into account. I think it will be a really big step and improvement for a lot of people. So thank you to the Chamber for that. Mr. Chairman. The envisaged date of entry into force of the measures in the field of Wajong and study, ending and reviving the law is 1 January 2020. That's soon. A number of MPs have asked about the timetable. Of course, it would be very nice if we could reach this date, but it must be feasible. In order to reach 1 January 2020, the UWV must hear what the Upper House has decided by 30 November at the latest. If that date cannot be met in the First and Second Chambers, the date of entry into force will be postponed. This would mean that a number of obstacles that stand in the way of Wajongers' participation would continue to exist for a longer period of time. For Wajongers in the study scheme, six months delay means that they will only be eligible for a 70% wml benefit later if they have work capacity or 75% wml if they do not have sustainable employment opportunities. The benefit they are currently receiving is 25% wml. For the Wajong 2015 the result is that people in education are no longer eligible for a Wajong 2015 benefit. In addition, the rules for ending and reviving the right with which Wajangers may fall back on the benefit will only be widened later. I am talking to the UWV about the next date on which the measures could be introduced if the Christmas bill were to be adopted. I will, of course, report to your Chamber on this when it comes to the matter. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked about communication. I agree with your Chamber that communication cannot be sufficiently careful. Like your Chamber, I also believe that it is important for people to be well informed about the changes. I would like once again to quote the wise words of Mr De Jong, who recalled that changes for this group are often followed with argus eyes, because they have not always proved to be an improvement in the past. See first, then believe. The UWV is committed to informing all Wajangers about the changes and is in conversation with all involved. Each group shall consider the best way of doing so. In doing so, we use the results of customer surveys to ensure that the communication deployment, both in terms of content and choice of medium, is as optimal as possible. What you saw in the report and in the law, the formulas and the graphs, I have just said, are actually the so-called underwater shield. We use letters, information on UWV.nl. Werk.nl, webcareletters, UWV Perspective, the Wajongforum and social media to inform Wajongers about the changes. The calculation tool has also been requested. It is under development and is part of the amendments introduced as from 1 January 2021 if the law is adopted. In addition to this calculation tool, the Simple Switch project explores whether it is possible to develop a combination calculation tool. This is a tool that gives people an indication of what working means for the level of their allowances and benefits and gives them an insight into their net salary. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan has asked whether it is possible to put the language coaches announced by BZK to work as well. That is a very nice team that is committed to improving communication with people. We are paying close attention to this target group. At the UWV, professionals are working on this. I'll see if I can convey that suggestion. In any case, we have regular meetings from the Ministry, which I myself participate in, with Wajangers to hear from them themselves how and through which way they prefer to be informed themselves. The insights from these meetings are also taken into account in the communication process. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of other questions which I will deal with on a point-by-point basis. Mr Peters of the CDA asked whether it would be easier to implement it. I am not going to give any guarantees, but I can say that in general it is. We go from 11 schemes to three schemes, and that makes it easier. Mr Peters asked what we are going to do to prevent recovery of and post-payment by Wajangers with varying revenues. I understand very well that it is very annoying for people who have varying incomes when they are affected by changes in their benefits. Unfortunately, this is inherent in the process in which income has to be offset against the benefit, if you have varying income. If there are varying revenues, the UWV makes individual agreements with working Wajangers. The UWV pays a lot of attention to clear communication about this. Then questions were asked about the College of Human Rights. I have paid a great deal of attention to the UN Convention in the preparation of the bill. Of course, I have talked about this with representatives of the target group, but certainly also with the VWS Department, which is the policy guardian of the UN Convention. The aim of the proposed measures is to remove barriers for people with disabilities to participate, to promote their participation in society and to improve the employment and income prospects of Wajangers who are still on the sidelines. For these reasons, the Government considers that the package of adjustments is in line with the UN Convention for People with Disabilities and that it is also an important improvement for people in the Wajong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u276	Have you answered all the questions about the UN Disability Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u277	There is a specific question from the Chamber as to whether I am prepared to suspend the examination of the legislative proposal until the College has considered it. I recall that we have spoken with many organisations in the lead, both representative organisations and people from the target group, but certainly also with the fellow department that is the guardian of the UN Convention. Many parties responded to the internet consultation and there have been a lot of individual reactions, but the college has not made use of them. I do not blame them for that, because they are busy and they must be busy with a lot of things. I think, however, that we can say that this is what I am doing, that the bill is in line with the intention of the UN Convention. I therefore do not intend to submit it to the College for further review, because it would suspend the legal process for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u278	The government does not believe that the present bill is in breach of the UN Convention. Yes, we at WC-Eend also believe that WC-Eend is the best. Of course, that's what I'd say if I were you. But, of course, that's the whole point. We have created an independent referee: the College of Human Rights. You just mentioned a whole series of other parties you spoke to. I have letters from parties here, too, and I have spoken to them. They're not too happy about this law. In fact, they all say, test it at that college. Wouldn't it be much stronger, even for your position, if you said: of course the referee should take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u279	My position is fine, but the position of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u280	I think that, in the end, what is before us is a balanced proposal, on which a great many interests have been put forward. Fortunately, a lot of valuable interests could be taken over, but in the end a balance has also been made. It is certainly not a moment from WC-Eend, but from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. As regards the verification of whether this fits into the UN Convention, the fellow department of the EU is the guardian of it, and that is also democratically controlled by this Parliament, which is an important sparring partner. So we've weighed it down. We can see that there has been progress, both in terms of income and in terms of participation opportunities. For those for whom there could be a decline in income, a transitional arrangement is being introduced. With all this, the government indicates to Parliament that it considers this to be in line with the UN Convention. It may be that the Chamber or part of the Chamber makes a different assessment, but I do not intend to submit it separately to the College of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u281	Mr Jasper van Dijk in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u282	The Secretary of State insists and says: we believe that it is in line with the Treaty. Of course, that's not very strong. It's a lot stronger if a college would say that. So I will table a motion to wait and see what the Chamber thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u283	And on the motions, the Secretary of State decides in second term. You have a number of other questions and four more amendments, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u284	Mr President, I would like to take a look at what I have already discussed in the case of interruptions. Mr Peters asked for a calculation of the effects of the employment discount. I agree with him that this is not the result of this law. It has also been debated in this Chamber before, and that has not led to any change at that time. But he asks me for a calculation and I can send it to him for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u285	For that exact calculation, I would also like to hear a statement from the State Secretary in which she says that it is really not okay that people who work 100% for the statutory minimum wage within the regular labour would have a lot more net left than people who do exactly the same with wage wage subsidies via the Wajong. I find that really insufferable. I understand that it wasn't the intention, but according to my calculations, it's worth about 200 euros net in the month. And even though that was not caused by this law, I would like to hear that that is indeed true, perhaps not the amount of €200, but you are going to calculate that something is really wrong here. I would also like to know whether the Secretary of State has any ideas as to how we could solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u286	I seem to recall that in 2014 a letter was sent by my predecessor to the Chamber on the basis of a motion that was held, to state explicitly that this issue is indeed known, but that it has not led to any changes. With the increase in the employment discount, the relative size of this issue is naturally increasing. I agree with Mr Peters. At the same time, we are talking about elements in the tax system, because you are talking about a reduction in working hours and the disability discount and how to bring it closer together. If he asks me for a judgment, I say that it fits more with the preparations for a new deadline than we can solve them at the moment. If the order of magnitude is so relevant that we do have to talk about it, I can imagine that we should be able to do so, but I cannot judge it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u287	I understand you can't tell me how you're gonna solve that, but we've agreed on a legal minimum wage, haven't we? I think that should be the same for person A as for person B. That doesn't matter grossly, but it's about what you have net in your wallet. I think that's what people are about. If we find this minimum wage and you just work 40 hours for it, that should be equal. Is the Secretary of State prepared, if that sum is right at the moment, and I think it is right to talk to the colleague who is talking about labour rebates or do I know, to say: yes but boys, there is a problem here; how do we solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u288	I should like to propose a roadmap where we first look at the extent of the issue before us and then some further steps can be taken. I shall then send a message to Mr Peters before the vote. In any case, I note that it is not an issue that I can resolve under the present law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u289	Finally, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u290	I would very much like to see that roadmap in this calculation, because at least here is the recognition that there is a problem, which was actually already known in 2014. Even then, it wasn't solved. The problem has only increased net among the people in the wallet by increasing that labour discount. So I'd really like to see that step-by-step plan in the calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u291	Okay. There's gonna be a letter for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u292	Sure. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked a question about the standard for people with medical hours limitation compared to the Participation Act. He asked if we could do an investigation into that. The right to Wajong entitles people with a medical time limit to an individual benefit at the level of the social minimum. That deviates from the Participation Act because there are no power test and no partner test. In terms of release, as in the Participation Act, at least 30% of the income is released. So that is wider than in the Participation Act. At the moment, when it comes to people with a medical hours limit, I see no reason to investigate a standard, because it is clear in the present law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u293	I can see Mr Stoffer coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u294	My question for that research came from there that I don't really see any justification for the figures, 15% and 135 euros. If there is, as I understand from the Secretary of State, could it be clarified in the letter before the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u295	I'm a little hesitant about that because there's really a different situation in the Participation Act than in the Wajong. That makes it very difficult to compare the two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u296	To make things clearer, I'm not really interested in that comparison. I'm just trying to explain where these numbers come from: this percentage, this number. Actually, that's what I'm looking for. Perhaps this question will make it easier for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u297	I'm gonna go see if I can set a line with the backup and I'll let you know right away. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u298	We can do that in the second term. We're still in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u299	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Let's see. Then I have a question from Mr Renkema, whom we have discussed before, about the instrument in the Wajong: the pay dispensation. He asks: can this not be replaced by wage costs subsidies? I refer to the discussion that we had here in this Chamber a year ago. In the Participation Act, due to the nature of the law, there is a capital test and a partner test. The housing situation of people is also relevant. That is really very different from the Wajong, in which it is an individual right. So there's a very different effect of this instrument in the Wajong. The instrument wage dispensation has been used in the Wajong for years. If we were to introduce wage costs subsidies into the Wajong, that means that the UWV will have to pay wage costs subsidies to employers where there is no payment relationship with employers. Because 18,000 Wajongers work with pay dispensation, there is also expected to be a form of transitional right. Then again, different regimes continue to exist side by side. In doing so, my weighting is that the introduction of wage costs subsidies in the Wajong leads to an increase in the complexity of the implementation of the Wajong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u300	The Secretary of State rightly refers to previous debates we have had on this subject. As far as I am concerned, two things have changed in recent years. There is an opinion from the Council of State on this amendment, which says: if you are going to harmonise, look at it. And as far as I am concerned, something has changed: SMEs, too, the Netherlands, have indicated that they really want to move towards further harmonisation, including that wage costs subsidy. I am not actually listening to any moving insight or change of opinion from the Secretary of State. So my question is: is it not even prepared to investigate this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u301	As I mentioned earlier, I hope to take a step in the right direction with this bill, realizing that there are still many issues on the path to an inclusive labour market, as well as many differences of understanding. I am actually trying to follow a sort of path with the Chamber, where I know that at some point parties take a different turn, the so-called T-split. But I'm trying to keep the path to that T-junction as long as I can. In any case, in my opinion, this would be after the T-split. At the same time, I also note that it is such a major change in practical terms that I cannot take care of it, especially within the mandate I have now. Mr Renkema also asked me what I think of the UWV's proposal to grant a temporary Wajong 2015 benefit if the UWV is not yet able to determine whether someone sustainably has no work power. That is what the Wajong 2015 is: a provision for people who have no sustainable work capacity. I think that a temporary Wajong 2015 for studying young disabled people with no work ability in whom the UWV cannot determine sustainability will lead to great disappointment in practice. For some of these people, the UWV will not be able to determine the sustainability of the lack of work power even after the study has ended and then end the Wajong benefit. In doing so, you move the bottleneck that Mr Renkema rightly describes to a later moment. By the way, people who have not been established that they have sustained no work power can submit a new application for the Wajong 2015 if they do so at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u302	Where are you with the other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u303	I think I've answered everything after this, even within the interruptions, but otherwise I'd like to hear it from your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u304	Okay. I shall then give the floor to Mr Renkema to ask for something, and then we shall proceed to the amendments on item Nos. 11, 13, 14 and 15 who have not yet been judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u305	I do indeed have a question on this point, the assessment of young people. There is another aspect to this, as far as I am concerned, which is not so much about the benefit situation as about completing school education. When young people turn 18, they suddenly go to another regime. That's what this is about. These are often young people in practical education and in secondary special education. It would be good to hold them for a little longer to obtain certificates and so on. They're just gonna leave school because at least they're gonna go to that Wajong guy. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to respond to this in the second term, because I am also concerned about that component. It's not just about the benefit situation, it's really about their school career.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u306	I understand the underlying question and I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u307	Okay. Then there are the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u308	I would like to point out to Mr Stoffer that perhaps that might help a little bit of why I was so negative about the request. Medical hours are no exception in the Wajong, because their income is treated the same as that of the other Wajongers. From that point of view, I might have reacted negatively to the question of a standard. Let me see where I have the amendments. The amendment in part No. 8...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u309	You've had 8 and 10. The amendment in part No. 11 by Jasper van Dijk is the first in the series.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u310	Mr Jasper van Dijk's amendment to item No. 11 proposes that the continued working arrangements for 2010 be maintained. This is not in line with the principle that more work should pay. As a result, the situation remains that more work does not pay in all cases. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. Then I have the amendment to item No. 13, if you care about me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u311	Yes. That's Jasper van Dijk's, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u312	Then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, on item No. 13 on a higher Wajong benefit for people with medical disabilities. The right to Wajong gives people with a medical hours limit income protection at the level of the social minimum, without any income and property test. Due to the Wajong system, the total income for a person with a medical hours limit who works exceeds the wml per hour and exceeds the wage of a regular employee who works part-time to the same extent. If someone goes to work more, the total income increases, and if someone doesn't work, there's the social minimum. A medical time restriction scheme makes the implementation complex and I therefore advise against the amendment. I have another amendment tabled by Mr Renkema, in respect of item No. 14. This requires to be based on the function wage. I do not recommend this amendment, because the draft law is already based on the functional wage when determining the income allowance. And with a job wage above wml, the total income, wage plus benefit at full-time work, exceeds the wml. This amendment takes the function wage as the basis, and this means that with a job wage of 120%, the basic benefit goes to 84% for an income of €1. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u313	Then there's one left, in part no. 15 from Bruins-Peters. Oh, no, there's a whole list of names underneath, Bruins c.s. So.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u314	Oh, sorry, Chairman. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Peters and Mr Raemakers. I should also advise against that amendment. I would like to point out, however, that it is annoying, and that is what I really think, that working for this group of people pays only to a limited extent. At the same time, I believe that people who have no sustainable opportunities for labour market participation, and that is precisely why the starting point for them is different. For they receive a benefit of 75% wml. It is an individual benefit without a partner, income and capital test. And because the benefit for people who have no sustainable potential starts at 75% wml, working is only paid when the labour income is higher 20% wml. From that moment on, they will have the same income regime as for Wajongers with working capacity. The creation of a separate income scheme for people with no sustainable potential creates the risk that a Wajanger will be transferred to the "working capacity" category after a re-evaluation and will deteriorate in income. I'd like to avoid that risk. It also provides an additional complexity in the system. For these reasons, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u315	This is the amendment Bruins, Peters, Raemakers, Nijkerken-de Haan, Gijs van Dijk, Renkema and Jasper van Dijk. Those last names were on the back of the list. I say that for the sake of completeness, because I did not want to fail the colleagues on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u316	No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u317	And neither do you. Thank you for your answer in the first term. Judging by the movements in the Chamber, the Chamber is ready for the second term. So I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u318	Mr. Chairman. I won't say it soon in a debate, but what a big gang it is here. 'Cause I don't know what we're up to right now. The coalition states in its own contribution, perhaps except for the VVD: "We do not like this law either, at least not on parts. There are good things in it, but there are also some things in it that are not good." It makes proposals through amendments. The Secretary of State then says in the first term: I also see that it pinches. But what does the Secretary of State do in dealing with the amendments? She's betraying everything! And we are still waiting for a possible movement of the SGP: will it be two years, will it be one and a half years, will it be one year? That is the conclusion of an important law on which we say to everyone: what is it important that we are clear to the target group? Well, it hasn't gotten any clearer, dear people. Not at all! I do not think that can be explained, apart from what I consider to be the substance of that law, that it is insufficient. So I would like to know about the Secretary of State, and perhaps also about the coalition party: what are we going to do between now and Tuesday? That'll be the back room, I guess, where we'll have to expect what it is. So obviously we are not doing that here, because I have not heard from any coalition party what the possible scope is for the important objections, for extending that two-month guarantee period. I haven't heard from anyone. I haven't heard it from the Secretary of State either. I've only heard it from the opposition. What a bizarre situation, really! Anyway, that's up to you. Then we'll talk about the background. Mr Stoffer of the SGP has asked what it means for those who lose their jobs and how much time they need to do so. The Secretary of State gave an important number. The figures show that after two years, a third of this target group still does not have a job. I would hope that the SGP would also take that information to heart. We're looking for a basis to extend the warranty period. Well, here it is, I'd say. Mr President, one more thing before I go to the motions. The Secretary of State began in her first term on the importance of this law, with broad support in society and in politics. If I look at politics in this way, it might be possible, with a little bit of a blow, for you to come to a possible support of the SGP and of Baudet in the treatment in the First Chamber. Nice broad political support, I'd say. A minimum First Chamber for this target group, which we have all appointed as such. Secondly, there is support for society. We have all received strong criticism of this law from many people who have a Wajong benefit, but also from all civil society organisations. It was about the point we've now had some sort of shadow game about. The Secretary of State says there is no deterioration. I may have hundreds of people's accounts, experts' accounts and organizations, which indicate that this law is a deterioration for some people, not for everyone who has a Wajong benefit. I don't think the Secretary of State is fair about that. She says, no, I guarantee you won't go backwards. It can't be. And then there is screened with the possible theoretical situation that you would indeed not go backwards. But there is no such thing as a theoretical situation. We're talking about people who are going through the deterioration. That's all neat and neatly calculated for us. I really don't think that's right, and neither should the coalition nor the Secretary of State. People are getting worse. And that's why it costs a lot of money if you want to extend that warranty period. It's as simple as that. I'll finish with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government has already made a discount on the Wajong benefit of €80 per month;]] [[Whereas the present legislative proposal, combined with the reduction already made, may conflict with the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities and thereby infringe fundamental human rights;]] [[calls on the government first to have the bill, in conjunction with the discount, assessed by the College of Human Rights and then put to the vote,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u319	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of the legislative proposal, the income of large groups of people with a Wajong benefit falls over time;]] [[Whereas it is also possible to simplify the rules and reward work without any deterioration;]] [[calls on the government to amend the bill so that the rules can be harmonised without deterioration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Renkema and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u320	I conclude with the call: change the bill or withdraw it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u321	Thank you. I call Mr Renkema van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u322	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that for all kinds of reasons, I think it is a complicated debate that we have had here this evening. I have heard the Secretary of State say: I come here with a balanced proposal. She has also said a number of times: it is a step in the right direction. At the same time, and that surprises me, she is not moving at all. All the amendments have been dissuaded. It has actually been said: this is what it is now. There is uncertainty as to how broad this is supported in the coalition, but also unclear whether they are substantive considerations or purely financial. I'm very sorry about that. I expected to see a little more movement tonight and thus also see more support in this Chamber and possibly outside this Chamber. I think we need that support, too. That's what the secretary himself said. She wants broad support for changes, and it seems to me complicated to get that broad support in this way. I continue to find it very unfortunate and very strange that an opinion has not been asked proactively, in this case to the College of Human Rights. No review has been requested. You could've said they could've done that. But do it yourself now! As far as I am concerned, this could have increased the level of support. But it would also have strengthened the power of the process if you could show what the judgment of the Human Rights College is. In view of the setting of this debate and the political choices that we should make next week in the votes, I would like to make it clear that I will ask for the vote to be postponed at next week's votes. It's up to the coalition parties to think about that. That is what I am going to ask for next Tuesday before the vote: postpone the vote on this law and on the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u323	Mr Raemakers wants to ask about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u324	I would like to make that clear from Mr Renkema. Would he ask for a postponement of votes for a specific reason? Can he explain a little more why he wants to postpone voting, because I do not quite understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u325	That doesn't seem complicated to me. We've had a debate since 8:45 p.m. We have heard many critical comments, both from the opposition and from the coalition. As far as the guarantee period is concerned, the amendments have been dissuaded, but at the same time several coalition parties have said that they really want things to be different. So what are we going to vote on next Tuesday? In any case, postponement gives us time to seek that broader support in the Chamber. That is why I would not like to vote on the amendments next Tuesday and immediately on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u326	But can I put the question as follows: is Mr Renkema open to looking at how we can find that broad support in the Chamber, and does GroenLinks also say that something is still possible if she looks at her own wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u327	I think I made a lot of proposals tonight to improve this law. What should happen so that we are going to support this law, I find a crazy question. I've made proposals. I want to support amendments and I have tabled an amendment. I am disappointed by the Secretary of State's reaction that she cannot move for all kinds of reasons and that the amendments are all discouraged. I would be sorry if we were to vote next Tuesday on the amendments, which are probably all voted down by the coalition, and on the law, and then on to the Senate. Enough has already been said about this. If we really want to ensure broad support, not only in the Lower House, but also in the Upper Chamber and more importantly: broad social, then this is not the route we should choose. So I will take every opportunity to spend more time on it. That is why I am now saying that at the beginning of the votes I will ask the President to postpone the votes. Then I'll move on to my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that studying exclusion grounds will expire in the Wajong 2015;]] [[noting that there will still be a group of young people who will not receive Wajong benefit, because it is difficult for the UWV to assess whether these young people have a sustainable working capacity because they are still studying or in school;]] [[Whereas this puts these young people in a difficult financial position;]] [[noting that the UWV has proposed suspending the sustainability assessment for these young people so that they can still receive benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to accept this proposal from the UWV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u328	It's 1:00 a.m. by now. And, Mr President, what a vague debate. We're talking about a law that we already know isn't gonna make it. He's going to be changed, but we don't know how yet. We will undoubtedly have another amendment with an important change. But that will require a new debate, I would ask colleagues. You can't just vote Tuesday. I fully agree with Mr Renkema. That would be very, very strange. So a reopening of the debate is necessary if you want to change the law on such a fundamental point. Otherwise, the government will lose all due diligence, fundamental debate and so on. Mr Gijs van Dijk has tabled two important motions which I have co-signed. That leaves me with one motion on my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are disadvantages in the distribution of wages, such as the fact that people do not have a full salary and do not have a decent pension;]] [[Whereas the Council of State has indicated that a harmonisation of the Wajong should also take into account the phenomenon of pay dispensation;]] [[calls on the government to consider whether pay dispensation in the Wajong can be abolished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u329	Finally, Mr President. Actually, I promised in the first term. I've compiled a selection of the responses into this package. I ask the Secretary of State to just look at this, because these are Wajongers who are incredibly worried that they are going down hard. It would be a credit to the Secretary of State if she would answer those reactions nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u330	Thank you. I call Mr De Jong, who will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u331	Mr President, thank you very much. It was a disappointing debate. Why? Because the Secretary of State does not want to respond to a large part of the Chamber's request to do something about the guarantee scheme right now, or to say that she is taking extra time because of the social unrest surrounding this bill and also the noises from the Chamber. But the debate is also disappointing because I now have to ask another question which I already know will be different from the answer given to me during the debate. So I'm gonna do it again. Someone currently covered by the Maatman and Breman Regulations. This is technical, but important for a lot of Wajangers. Could it then be that there are groups that are then declining in terms of income? I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity again to answer that question in the second term. The Secretary of State said in the first term that this is not the case. I would like to know if she still supports that answer. So I'm gonna give her some space to take a closer look at that. But I expect a clear answer to that when I answer the questions. It's my job to make sure that the Wajangers who are watching this are clear. That is why I really hope that the Secretary of State will give himself the opportunity to come up with something other than what it has come up with, to ensure that harmonisation takes place and that there is a benefit for Wajangers, but that the unrest is removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u332	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u333	Mr President, thank you. When I hear it all like that, I think it really matters how you look at this law. Let me be quite honest: I did not think this evening's debate was so wrong, because I think that this law, as I pointed out earlier this evening, is really an improvement. However, there are a number of points which we believe can be improved. But to put it in my own terms, you can't get heaven on earth here. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers she gave. The point of the warranty period remains valid for me. There has to be a lot of improvement on that. But I am going to consider whether the two-year period should remain, or whether it should be somewhere between one and two years. The answer to the percentages was essential to me. I do not see a huge leap between one and two years. Now I do not know whether there is a leap between two and three years; perhaps in the second term there can be an answer to that. I estimate that for the target group that we are talking about, because this will be an average rate, the percentage will not be lower than this average. I'm going to make that consideration over the next few days. I will look into whether I am enforcing my amendment or whether I am tabling an amended amendment. Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u334	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u335	I am glad that Mr Stoffer is really looking for support. He has also said that he is willing to look at a guarantee period, but it must be in line with the figures below. I was shocked by the 68%, because that means you can still hit a third big after two years. On the basis of these figures, you could say that the two years proposed by Mr Stoffer is an arrangement that you should at least have. When it comes to the entire SZW budget, it's not about big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u336	Well, that's the question. Actually, it's not a question. It's just a statement. But I do want to say something about it. It's numbers from the past. The question is whether there is a lot of incentive in that. It may be that this will instantly give an incentive to increase it. At some point, we can make that happen in an evaluation: does it ever need to be revised or not? And then there's another point. I hear Mr Van Dijk saying that it's not a lot of money, but when we say that about everything... I am quite concerned about the entire Social Affairs budget and about the whole health budget. I am also a financial spokesman, and when I see that that is more than half of our rich budget, I think: if we say that in everything and it happens very often, our rich budget will explode. That's a concern for me in total. Of course, it's not a lot of money every time, but the difference between one and two years is, for example, 20 million. Between two and three years it is a little less, but also a considerable amount. I always take those considerations with me. A financial consideration is not something weird. It always stays in my mind: be careful of every euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u337	In conclusion, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u338	That's where Mr. Stoffer and I will find each other. Of course, that is always an important consideration. For us, the consideration is to be broad in scope, because the position of this target group in the labour market is vulnerable. They cannot do much about this themselves, but it is because of the current labour market. There is also the justification for saying that we are quite willing to pay extra money for this. Of course, you have to cover that properly, because that means you can't do other things. It's not endless, it's not an ATM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u339	Mr. Stoffer. Oh, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u340	First of all, let me make a comment. The appearance seems to arise that if that guarantee scheme is only extended, the heavens have come to earth. I use that expression for a moment because it just passed by, even though that does not apply to me at all. There are other objections to this law: medical hours limitation, gratifications, etc. Anyway, that aside. The Secretary of State has said that it is best to talk to her about extending the deadline, perhaps to one year, perhaps to two years. But it has to be within the current budget, so you have to start reallocating, redistributing, within the budget. Is that also a condition for you, or can it also be found outside the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u341	It may also be found outside the budget. You asked me about the cover earlier. If we're gonna come up with motions and stuff, we're gonna need cover. But with a legislative proposal, I dare to do so without cover, because then it is also a matter of principle. So, as far as I am concerned, this can also be found outside the budget. But I do make the point: how big do I want to find it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u342	It's about several tens of millions, 50, 60, 70 million, I say off the loose wrist. My recommendation would be to look for it outside, because if you're gonna do it inside, what the Secretary of State says, you're gonna hurt somewhere within the Wajong group. That's a good chance. Do you share that concern and do you want to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u343	I share that concern, but I am not going to say in advance that I want to prevent it. I really want to judge that on his merits between now and Tuesday and then I'll make my point. If I've got it right, we're talking about 47 versus 67 million in one or two years. I do not find 20 million in this whole budget very much, but it is substantial money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u344	Thank you. I call Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, it was certainly a very useful debate, because some things have become crystal clear to me. The study opportunities are extended, fall back on the Wajong rights if work fails anyway, appropriate job offer that expires................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, it is clear that until now it has not been, at least not for everyone, that more can be earned than the minimum wage, even if you do not immediately pay the job. It is now clear that by far the majority of people are also improving. It is clear that there is a transitional arrangement, whereby the Secretary of State says that the present legislative amendment will not lead to a loss of income other than the loss of a job. I must honestly say that I said in the first place on a question from Mr De Jong that I think the documents showed that this was the case, and that he therefore had a point. I am also really curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State, because I fear that it is indeed possible, but good. In the current situation, gratifications are fully offset and not fully covered by the new rules. So that actually gets better. Implementation will be simplified. The Secretary of State acknowledges that there is a problem with the employment discount. Fortunately, I get a report and a letter with a roadmap. I like that, too. The amendment on sustainable not working capacity and additional earnings is not recommended, but has a majority. I like that. And the most important thing is that those who are going to work more are now at least not going to earn less. There is one bottleneck left for the CDA, and that is the transitional arrangement, the two-month deadline. I am going to take a quiet look at Mr Stoffer's amendment. I am going to see if I am going to support that amendment and amend the law in this way, or if I am going to come up with an amendment myself between now and Tuesday. I also have the consideration that Mr Stoffer had.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u346	One question. I have just put down the dilemma that I am going to consider in the next few days whether I am keeping the amendment as it is now, or whether I am going to change it a little bit. How does the CDA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u347	I have to make the same assessment, with the same considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u348	I will put the question more concretely, because then it becomes more and more complicated for me, and I like that very much. Does it make a difference for the CDA whether I leave this amendment as it is now, or whether I adjust it to a shorter period? So there's less money attached to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u349	In answer to questions from, I believe, Mr Gijs van Dijk, it may also be Jasper van Dijk who said that, looking through my eye hairs, I myself would initially go for a period of one year. But I also think we should look at all the information there is. That is to the money and to the figures. I have to make the trade-off that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u350	Mr Jasper van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u351	It was an interesting little debate that just took place here. If the amendment is to be amended or if Mr Peters himself comes up with an amendment, which he has just suggested as an option, he shares my view that we cannot vote on Tuesday but that we should then talk about it, as a full Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u352	I think we can vote on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u353	About a proposal I don't know yet? In fact, you don't even know it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u354	No, it is very common for amendments to be tabled before the vote. You know that, Mr. Van Dijk. It's possible. I would also like to invite you to perhaps watch with me. Maybe we can make something that goes with it, or with Mr. Stoffer. Then it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u355	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u356	I would very much like to do so in a public debate. Right here. That is why I found Mr Stoffer's interruption very fair. But play it out, instead of sitting in a back room for the next three days after which we are surprised with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u357	I do not think so, and that is not so unusual, as you yourself know. At least I see this law as a great step forward. I have been given a great deal of clarity on a number of serious questions that we had. I have just mentioned 12 points on which I really see a substantial improvement on what it was. I have also seen a number of uncertainties removed. And I've got one more bottleneck, and we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u358	Thank you. I call Mr Raemakers, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for answering our questions, in particular those concerning the right of survival, the perks and the accounting rules. I think they were good, substantive answers. So thank you very much for that. When it comes to this law, we are positive about two elements: that work or more will actually pay and that studying in the Wajong will also be easier. There are no more obstacles to that. That really sees D66 as a big plus of this law. We've also identified our concerns. There are two amendments on the deadline for the guarantee scheme, the two months proposed. I found the answer from the Secretary of State in the direction of Mr Stoffer very interesting. I think it's okay to take a look at what we're getting at. D66 is also very willing to do so. Mr Renkema proposed that the votes be postponed. He assumed that coalition groups would vote against dissuaded amendments. I would like to emphasise that we are really open to it. We're dualistic, so the cabinet does its own appreciation. As a coalition party, we are simply looking honestly at the amendments. Mr Renkema's amendment to item No. 14 I find very interesting, but I have the idea that there are some factual things in there that don't quite add up. I would like to talk to Mr Renkema about this. I see a starting point in the amendment in order to achieve a better law. Let us look at this together, including the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u360	Mr Van Dijk of the SP has already said it: this makes it complicated. I have tabled an amendment which is not recommended. Now I hear from Mr Raemakers that he finds it interesting and wants to talk about it. This postponement of votes has to do with the fact that I want more time to think about a number of things. I believe that the debate should be able to take place on this subject. It was not for nothing that the opposition said at an earlier stage of the debate: let us suspend, given that there are so many amendments; let us be careful about this; let us pick it up later. Well, the coalition didn't want that. In any case, I am going to ask for the vote to be postponed. I simply attach great importance to a debate on this issue. I don't want to settle it here with the coffee later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u361	On the contrary, I consider Mr Renkema's amendment to be very sympathetic, but I do not think it is entirely correct. I can explain that now, but I'd just like to talk about it together. It is an open invitation to GroenLinks to look together to see how we can improve the amendment. I want to look at it together, because I can see the point. I want to work on it together, but if you say 'I would rather not', I cannot support the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u362	Fortunately, the President has not tabled an amendment. Mr Renkema did that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u363	I'm not gonna get a lot of words out of this. I think D66 can simply vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u364	I have some suggestions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u365	I would have liked to have heard it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u366	The amendment was also very late, but let's do it again. As far as I'm concerned, an open invitation to everyone. That's how it should go in a democracy. The cabinet can give an appreciation to dissuade or dissuade Chamber of Appeal, but in the end it is up to us, the House of Representatives, to decide on it. That is something that we, as parties, should be able to discuss with each other. That's totally fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u367	I understand that Mr Raemakers is already negotiating to amend certain amendments. I didn't hear about my amendment, but I heard about the guarantee period. I am curious to see how Mr Raemakers views my amendment. The same question I asked the CDA: does it make any difference whether I leave the current amendment or whether I am adjusting it with a shorter deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u368	I think I have already said that I find the substantive answer given by the Secretary of State to your question about those one and two years very serious. I am in the same position as Mr Peters. I would like to see whether I am going to join Mr Peters' amendment or perhaps join you. Let's take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u369	I have to conclude that it doesn't get much clearer. On the other hand, I often see amended motions and amendments in votes. I think we're gonna talk about this in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u370	In any case, it is not the limited number of interruptions that could have been committed today! Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Finally, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan for her second term on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u371	Mr President, in view of the time, I shall be quick. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. What applies to one Wajangere does not have to apply to the other. That is why communication that is clear and clear is very important. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in the run-up to the legal process of amending the Wajong (35213), there has been a great deal of uncertainty as to the financial impact of harmonisation on people using different Wajong schemes;]] [[Considering that the uncertainty causes unrest among the Wajongers, who benefit from security around their income and support;]] [[noting that the current uncertainty in the short term does not appear to be sufficiently overcome by the information provision including the calculation tool via the UWV, as it is not yet available;]] [[calls on the Government to provide clear and sound information in the short term on this harmonisation and its impact on the people using the Wajong, including client organisations and the UWV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijkerken-de Haan, Mr Bruins and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u373	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:30. Then we'll start with the second term from the government's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u374	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to assess the motions and to answer a number of outstanding questions. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u375	Thank you, Mr President. I do have a number of questions to answer and a number of motions for resolutions. I would like to start with Mr De Jong's question. He quoted me from the article in which I indicated that I am indeed guaranteeing that no one will get worse because of this bill. I think it's listening very closely. I have also indicated that, in the current situation, it may also be the case that someone loses his job. That may indeed be a reason for income decline. This can of course be the case in the new situation. With a view to this guarantee, the cabinet felt that the transitional arrangements should be introduced. I'll keep reporting that. Then there is another question from Mr Renkema. He asked about taking education in combination with a Wajong 2015 benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u376	Before you come to Mr Renkema: Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u377	I have repeatedly asked for the following. Someone no longer has the Breman and Maatman scheme, and after those two months ends up in a new situation, but one that is identical to the situation before that, something that can...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u378	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u379	For example, you can do this if you are with an employer, then temporarily stop for whatever reason and still return to your old employer. If we no longer look at the level of education, but at the number of hours, can we have someone going backwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u380	It may be material, but not as a result of this bill. That's what I've been telling you all along, and I'm gonna keep telling you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u381	I'm saying this because this isn't right. Why not? Because the current situation looks at the level of education but later at the number of hours. That it's a function wage, that's possible. That's true. But it may also be the case that a person is in a situation where his level of education contributes to determining how much he earns and that this is higher than the job rate in which he immediately ends up. That could be a back door. I'm just looking for confirmation that it might be possible. I don't want to embarrass you. I don't want to put anything in your mouth. But what I do not want is that a Member of Parliament who has looked at it, has paid serious attention to it and has researched it, it is said: no, it is not because of the current regime. Something's changing in the scheme. That change could cause someone in income to decline. Are you really saying "no" to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u382	In the debate I had with Mr De Jong and with other Members of Parliament, a number of situations were outlined in which the old situation was compared to the new situation. That's how I interpreted them. I have made it quite clear, even in the magazine with UWV, that there will be no deterioration for people as a result of the law. That does not go away, especially if Mr De Jong asks the question so specifically that there can indeed be a deterioration. But that's different from when it's a consequence of the law. I've been trying to answer these kinds of questions, all the questions, with that same open sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u383	As I said in the second and first periods of interruption, I find this very regrettable. I agree with Mr De Jong, because we have to tell the honest story to the people who are worried. I have just put in written questions, because I saw this answer coming. This question contains a number of arithmetic examples: old situation/new situation. I'd like to know, on man, what that means. Then we'll see and then we'll be able to weigh it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u384	I actually want that, too, Mr. Van Dijk, so thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u385	Let us also be clear, I try to indicate that with an open sight, that there can be no deterioration as a result of the law. But there may be situations where there is less money. That is certainly the case. The government has considered that the guarantee scheme should provide for a transitional arrangement to meet this requirement. That's what the Chamber is discussing. I will certainly try to answer all the questions well before the vote. But what I have always tried to do, as I have tried to do throughout the legal process, is to compare the situation contained in the proposed law with the situation of the people as they are today. That's what I meant in the interview with the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u386	I have not, of course, read Mr Van Dijk's questions, but I would appreciate it if you could compare the situation under the current arrangements with that under the new arrangements. I'll ask you a question if I have to. Then we can at least see whether the deterioration that materially can always be if you lose your job is due to that legislation or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u387	I have also given some very clear examples in my text. I gave you a package. They're in there, too. So it's really nice if you answer them. I think it's crystal clear. If someone has a job now, loses it and gets a similar job after two months with a comparable salary, then that person is going backwards. 'Cause he's gonna lose the Breman and the Maatman arrangement. I think that's obvious. You could just acknowledge that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u388	In any case, what I would like to avoid is a misunderstanding in which I give answers that were not the question of the Chamber. That is why I just want to say it so loud and clear, because you know me: I very much like a debate with an open vision. I have tried to explain all the time in the interest of the target group that I compare the current situation with the future situation, also bearing in mind what I said in the UWV Magazine. I understand now, too, that I answered those questions in that context too: Mr De Jong, as Mr Gijs van Dijk will have done, has been able to define a number of situations in which there could be a material decline. I cannot say in advance that this is certainly not the case. That is something different from what I said in the UWV Magazine. I really think it is important to be clear about this. I am certainly not running away from that, but I will continue to compare what people are dealing with under the current legislation and in the current legislation. I think it is very important to indicate to the target group that these improvements are in there and that we have a guarantee scheme in case there is a deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u389	Mr De Jong, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u390	I actually want to make a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u391	That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u392	I have asked about a hundred times in the debate. There were even colleagues who said: are you going to start again about that guarantee and everything? I just asked those questions. Then the Secretary of State said, "No, she was holding." Then my esteemed colleague Jasper van Dijk asks the same question, and then the Secretary of State acknowledges it to Jasper van Dijk. This can't be happening, can it? I'm just asking a simple question. The new regulation will no longer be subject to two regulations that a Wajanger is now dealing with. Could that mean someone is getting worse in an identical situation he's in right now? The answer is yes. You say that to Mr Van Dijk, not to me. I am very sorry, because I want to be able to have a normal debate with you. You just don't acknowledge that to me when I ask that question. I find it incomprehensible that you do that. That's not the way we deal with each other here. I want to be able to judge this law in a normal way. That's what you do in a way... You just don't want to acknowledge it. I had to spend a whole night working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u393	I want everything. You mean the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u394	I find it unworthy of you to deal with the Chamber this way. It's not about me personally, but I'm not asking that question for nothing. Thank you for giving that recognition to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u395	I'm so sorry about this. I always like to debate and also with great respect with Mr De Jong. So if that's what he's experiencing, I'm really sorry about that. I certainly didn't mean to. I will also be happy to give the answer in his direction. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u396	Mr Jasper van Dijk, one last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u397	Just to be safe. Do we get answers to the questions asked by Mr Gijs van Dijk before Tuesday and the e-mails I have given so that we have it in writing in black and white?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u398	Although I am not always in favour of night work with the SP, we are going to try. I had another question from Mr Renkema about taking education in combination with a Wajong 2015 benefit. If someone makes an application for Wajong 2015 during the course of education, the UWV will take this into consideration. If it turns out that someone meets the conditions, then even during the course of education, Wajong 2015 will be entitled with the amendment by this bill. Maybe that's an enlightenment for him. Then I come to the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. We had an exchange of views on this during the debate. Many parties have been asked for advice and of course the Council of State, certainly not the least High College of State. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u399	The motion in part No. 16 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u400	The motion in part No. 17, I'm telling you, too. As far as I'm concerned, it's not about large groups of people. The group that benefits is really big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u401	The motion in part No. 17 has also been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u402	On the motion in part No. I had an exchange of views with Mr Renkema in the debate. I also talked about the potential risk of disappointment. For this reason, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u403	The motion in part No. 18 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u404	The motion in part No. 19, I advise. I indicated in the debate that I think it is too much of a system change that does not fit within the mandate. The motion in part No. 20 on clear and good information I judge Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That's what got me to closure. May I add a few words to that before you hammer it off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u405	Yes. The motion in part No. 19 has been dissuaded and the motion in part No. 20 gets judgment room. You will have the opportunity for closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u406	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the debate. It is a complex arrangement for a group of vulnerable people with many talents, as your Chamber has also said. I think we all feel the responsibility for this very large group of people, of whom there really are some 60,000 on the sidelines at the moment. This also shows the need for a more understandable and, above all, more stimulating rule. I would like to point out to the Chamber that, with the package before us, there is a package, especially in relation to the current situation, to give Wajangers more opportunities to participate: maintaining the individual benefit, without cost sharing standard and capital testing, combined with schemes that are really going to make work more rewarding. Right now, we're just dealing with a situation that's undesirable for a lot of people. I would like to thank the Chamber for the debate, because I share with the Chamber the feeling that, as we have all seen in recent years, the current situation is complex and frustrating. Can I give it to the Chamber to consider, even next week, perhaps a weighting in relation to the current situation? Maybe not to the final situation, which we think is different, but still to the current situation: do Members of Parliament think this is a step in the right direction? The cabinet thinks so, even though we realise that there are still many steps to be taken on the road to an inclusive labour market. The proposal before us is really a good step for many people in terms of income and increasing employment opportunities. We also have the guarantee scheme for those for whom it is unexpectedly not positive. However, may I express the hope that, given the target group and the debate we are having today, this proposal will have the broadest possible support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u407	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. That means it's 1:48 a.m. and Mr. Bruins didn't just make the sixteen-hour day today, but it came close.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-8.u408	The votes are scheduled for next Tuesday, both on the legislative proposal and the amendments and on the motions for resolutions tabled. There's gonna be another discussion about Tuesday. That will be done with the arrangement. Then we'll see what the Chamber decides. I thank Members for their input, I thank the support services for their night work and I thank the public for their interest, including the people at home.
