ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr F.J.F. Uijen. I ask the Members to stand up. On 7 February last, Frans Uijen, former senator of the Labour Party, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 20 September 1977 to 13 September 1983 and from 3 June 1986 to 11 June 1991. Franciscus Jacobus Frederikus Uijen was born on 11 January 1927 in Eindhoven. After primary school, he attended the Sint-Joriscollege in Eindhoven. Because of the outbreak of World War II, he couldn't finish school. In 1945 he received the certificate for five years Hbs under Royal Decree. Mr. Uijen then immediately opted for the Royal Air Force and became a professional military officer in 1945. I quote: "I became military in response to the German occupation. And also because I wanted to fly." In 1946 he was a short-time navigator in Britain, before becoming an officer in the Royal Air Force. He was supposed to stay that way until 1975. At the same time, he was a pilot officer volunteer reserve at the Royal Air Force in the United Kingdom. As an officer, he followed several training courses within the Royal Air Force, both at home and abroad, especially in the United States. From 1956 to 1958, Mr Uijen studied mechanical engineering at the Delft University of Technology through the Ministry of Defence. That was a college back then. Within the Royal Air Force, he held the rank of major at the time of his wave-off in 1975. Mr Uijen became politically active when he became a member of the PvdA Defence Committee in 1963. In 1972 he also became a member of the Foreign Committee of the Labour Party and of the Party Council. In 1974 Mr Uijen was elected as a member of the Provincial States of South Holland. He would remain one term. Between 1975 and 1987, Mr Uijen held various administrative positions within the PvdA, including the Presidency of the PvdA-gewest The Hague. In 1991 he resigned his membership of the Labour Party out of discontent with the course of the party. When Mr Uijen became a member of the First Chamber in 1977, he was no longer employed by the Royal Air Force. However, he soon got the nickname "the red major." Of course, he would be a spokesperson for his Defence Group. He also soon became Deputy Chairman of the Permanent Defence Commission and member of the NATO Assembly. His maiden speech took place on 23 May 1978 during the policy debate on defence and the military part of NATO. In the debate with the recently appointed Minister Scholten, Uijen expressed his party's position: 'We have become convinced of the need to take initiatives to participate in an active peace policy. (...) At the same time, we believe that the Netherlands (...) should not in any way contribute to the systematic expansion of NATO's military potential, nor to the introduction of new offensive weapons systems." In 1988, Mr Uijen addressed all the national newspapers in the Ministry of Defence with his speech against the so-called 'grade inflation'. He meant the more than 1,500 promotions over a period of one year in the Air Force, the Navy and the Army. In this way, the Ministry hoped to limit the departure of qualified personnel. In the debate, Uijen said: 'It is understandable, but still not good, that the rulers are trying to circumvent the remaining wage policy for staff with such scarce qualifications, within the structure of the armed forces permanently.' Two years later, he was somewhat right when the government decided to tackle the large number of high rankings in particular. In addition to his political and military career, Mr.Uijen was a military assistant to the VARA radio, member of the Supervisory Board of the VARA, vice-president of the Association of the Netherlands-DDR and member of the Board of Appeals Committee General Assistance Act in Zuid-Holland. In 1946, Mr Uijen received the British War Medal, in 1951, the Mobilisation-War Cross and in 1962, the Long-Term Service Award. Frans Uijen was a politician and a soldier. The combination of social democracy with the armed forces did not make life easier for him. He himself said about his choice: "As a member of the Labour Party, you are seen as a threat, but actually that is ridiculous, because our political system carries the change in itself." May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-5.u2	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for a brief moment. Unfortunately, the family had to cancel at the last minute today, so no condolences can be given to family members. I am therefore suspending for a short time only.
