ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Health Insurance Act to strengthen the influence of insured persons on the health insurance provider, known to us under item No. 34971, insured persons influence Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u2	As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet. She has registered on behalf of GroenLinks for ten minutes. That is a directive. You may take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It always feels like a luxury when it comes to legal treatment that you can tell yourself how long you want to talk. The concern belongs to all of us. This is an important starting point in our country and also a great asset, although there is still some work to be done in its elaboration. The concern is with all of us and with that all the agencies that are committed to this care, for example, general practitioners or hospitals, but also health insurance companies, are a bit of us all. We think it is important that we are taken seriously in our role as patients and continue to take steps to further strengthen the participation of patients. But we also want to be heard in our role as an insured person. That is what tonight is about: strengthening control and participation of insured persons. My group welcomes this, because it is precisely when it comes to health insurers that there is still a great deal of distrust among people and people are wondering whether their interests are being taken into account properly. Honestly, health insurers have a somewhat ungrateful role to play, because they need to strike the balance between promoting good care and keeping care affordable in the long term. Now there is a lot to say about how they fulfil their role, but at the moment I would like to emphasise that this is really not always easy and that it is precisely for this reason that it is so important to listen to and take people seriously as insured people and to take their input into the direction that the health insurers choose. Mr. Chairman. This bill clearly states: "The opinions and wishes of insured persons should be more central to the policy of the health insurance provider. The involvement of insured persons should therefore be involved in the design and implementation of the policy." The way in which this should be achieved is by strengthening individualinsured participation and also by guaranteeing an advisory permanentinsurement representation. The represented group of insured persons, often organised in a member's council, is given advisory rights on the annual care procurement policy. In addition, these representative members have the right of assent in relation to the participation scheme for individual insured persons. I hope that the viewers at home will be able to follow this, because it is a lot of insurance positions. I do have a question about the participation scheme for individual insured persons and the right of consent that insured persons have. I read in the explanatory statement that the health insurance company can also unilaterally determine the participation scheme if it does not come out with the representation. That would only happen if the representation were unreasonable. But, yes, that creates a very uneven balance of power. The only thing the insured can do is go to court. But, of course, you'd rather not. Are there really no alternatives, so that in the case of the right of assent, guaranteed people have a genuinely equal negotiating position? If the starting point is that as an insurer you can say "I find them too difficult, it doesn't work out, we don't get out and I'll decide on my own what that right of advice means," it just seems undesirable to me. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In any case, we can conclude that the legislative proposal is a step in the right direction, but it is also a cautious step. In the areas of care procurement and customer communication, in which insured persons are given a say, the scope of participation is framed. It is then up to the health insurance provider and the representation of insured persons to make that framework. Participation is therefore not wide-ranging in these policy areas. That's pretty careful, as I said. You could also put it positively, namely that you hope that the framework will lead to the right conversation between the insured person and the health insurance provider. Mr. Chairman. There is another policy area where there should be a more intensive dialogue between the insured person and the health insurance provider, with the same scope for framing the conversation by the health insurance company itself: investment policy. Research commissioned by the Fair Insurance Guide of April this year shows that the health insurance companies still have a long way to go when it comes to fulfilling their responsibility for socially responsible investment. In July 2018, they signed the Covenant of International Corporate Social Responsibility, which also states that they want to promote the accessibility of medicines with their investments, but on the website of the Covenant you can see that no measure has actually been formulated in response to this ambition, which has been formulated more than a year ago and which the health insurance companies have signed. Another example. The Access to Medicine Index contains an investor statement. Healthcare insurers who have signed this Access to Medicine Index thus also express their willingness to do everything possible to make medicines accessible to everyone. But if you look at who signed that investor statement, you'll see that CZ hasn't done it yet and neither has Menzis and VGZ. Those are three very big health insurance companies. So you can see that it just doesn't really get along with that socially responsible investment. Why is that relevant in this debate? This is relevant because insurers invest massively in the pharmaceutical industry. In general, you invest in the hope of achieving as much financial return as possible. That's why you're laying siege. If you want to invest for that purpose, you're right at Big Pharma. There is no other sector with such high profit margins. The fact that tax is sometimes avoided on a large scale is a by-product for a large number of investors. To give an example, the Financial Times study shows that in 2016, the largest four US pharmaceutical companies did not have $ 352 billion worth of tax-free profits in foreign accounts. So yes, the pharmaceutical industry is a very profitable industry and for any investor from a purely financial point of view. But just leave that with those health insurance companies differently. They also have a social mission to keep care affordable. They are therefore right to complain very often about these high drug prices. They would limit the space for other forms of care. They also often say that they expect the minister to help them tackle the pharmaceutical industry in that respect. So they're right to complain about these massive drug prices, which they want to reduce to reasonable prices. That requires a whole set of instruments. We can also see that this Minister is doing his best. There are all kinds of colleagues in the Chamber who have put forward proposals and submitted own-initiative papers to see what we can do about these huge drug prices. I did the same thing myself. However, in recent times, it has been under-exposed that smart and responsible investment can also be an instrument for curbing the pharmaceutical industry and reducing the prices for their medicines. Mr. Chairman. I think it is too early to conclude that health insurers should withdraw as investors in the pharmaceutical industry. It is clear, however, that research has also shown that they really need to make much more work out of their engagements with the pharmaceutical companies in which they invest. This is also directly in the interest of the insured. 'Cause we're talking about them tonight. What can we do about the position of those insured people and how can we strengthen them? We do so on topics that we believe are directly relevant to those insured persons. Then it is about purchasing policy, because that is of course directly relevant: what does the health insurance company buy? You take advantage of that, as an insured person. But it is also directly relevant that your insurer is committed, with his own investments, to fair prices in the pharmaceutical industry. Because if that does not happen, I shall put it as negative as possible and invest a health insurance company in the pharmaceutical industry, with the result that that pharmaceutical industry can make even more profits, has an even stronger dominant position and can ask for even higher prices, then we are even further away from where we want to end up. And who ultimately pays the bill for that? That's the insured one. The insured person therefore has a direct self-interest in the fact that his health insurance provider imposes investment requirements on the pharmaceutical industry if that insurer chooses to invest in Big Pharma. I have therefore tabled an amendment to add participation in investment policy to the legislative proposal. As far as I am concerned, this bill deals with issues that affect insured persons directly and directly, in which they should have a say and which they should be able to talk to the health insurance provider about. That certainly seems to me to be investment policy too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister, who, of course, is also at the table with health insurers, to put this issue on the agenda more often. So far we have overlooked this too many times, and so has the Chamber. A lot of people didn't even know that health insurance companies invest and invest so massively in the pharmaceutical industry. Well, they do. Let us at least ensure that they are accountable, that they can show that they have a positive impact on these investments, that we see that pharmaceuticals are really willing to listen to them and that we see that it has a positive impact on the price of medicines, but also on, for example, combating tax avoidance. Does the Minister share the importance of investing responsibly with GroenLinks? And does he want to raise this subject with some regularity when he is in conversation with the health insurance companies? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. As a second speaker from the Chamber, I shall give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I visited the Menzis members' council, I spoke to Wout. Wout has been a member of the membership council for 12 years. As a preacher, he used to visit sick congregation members on a regular basis. During these visits, he became interested in the care that his congregation members received. It was also at that time that the new Health Insurance Act came into force. Wout decided that he wanted to know more about how care works and how those people are affected. He applied to Menzis' membership council. In doing so, he was able to influence the policy of his own health insurance provider. Over the past twelve years, Wout has been able to experience how his member council professionalised. The Board became a fully-fledged partner for the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board. The board may take part in the care purchase, but also in the appointment of Commissioners. If there was something regional in the care, then the member council organized regional evenings, for which the insured were invited. As far as I am concerned, Menzis is a good example of how insured people can influence their health insurance provider's policies. Honestly, I think this is only logical. Health insurers are, for the most part, cooperatives, whose insured persons are members. Together, these insured persons pay more than EUR 23 billion each year in premium and own risk. With this, they finance about half of their health insurance expenditure. It is therefore only right that insured persons should also have an influence on the policy of the health insurance provider. Mr. Chairman. There is now a legislative proposal to legally anchor the right of participation of individual insured persons and the position and right of advice of representatives of insured persons. This will further increase the influence of insured persons and give them more opportunities for support. My group is very pleased that it finally implements two motions by the Christian Union, which were first adopted in the Lower House and then also in the Upper Chamber. This bill fits in with the coalition's efforts to legally establish the participation of insured persons, patients and clients in the policies of their health insurance provider or healthcare provider. The Christian Union considers control of care to be very important. By giving insured people, patients and clients, as well as employees, influence on the implementation of the policy in the care sector, we ensure that that policy can be tested immediately in practice. The bill we're discussing tonight, it's a big deal. It's a three-pronged bill. Firstly, the involvement of insured persons in the care purchasing policy and customer communication policy, secondly, the advisory right of representation of insured persons in the care purchasing policy and, thirdly, the right of consent of that representation to the participation scheme. But, Mr President, the bill does not deal with a lot of issues either. For example, the list of subjects subject to public participation or advisory law is not very comprehensive. The Minister says he wants to leave room for customization. This was also seen in the Dutch law on participation of clients in health care institutions. However, that law still regulates a large number of cases in general administrative measures. But this hook is missing from this bill. My group wants to prevent this law from having insufficient added value in relation to what is already possible and what is happening. That is why I would like to make a number of proposals for adaptation. First of all, the right of participation for individual insured persons. They can now only say something about care procurement policy and customer communication policy. Let me be clear: that is certainly a very big and good step. However, my group also considers it important for insured persons to be involved in the decision-making process on, for example, the use of non-statutory reserves. Is this keeping the premium low or is it investing in a wider remuneration within the health insurance company's supplementary insurance? These are choices that ultimately directly concern the insured. This also applies to the choices made by an insurer in the provision of health insurance. In addition, the use of financial resources for the recruitment of new insured persons at the annual changeover circus is something where insured persons can be consulted on. That is why I have tabled an amendment to increase the participation of insured persons in these areas. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The representation should reflect correctly the insured population.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u6	I think there is another question from Mr Raemakers of D66 on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u7	First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate the Christian Union for taking this issue up in recent years. That is why we are here tonight in the plenary to discuss this law. The amendment that Mrs Dik-Faber has just explained came to us today very last minute. So we read it just as quickly, but I do have some questions about it. It concerns the use of reserves not prescribed by law and the provision of health insurance. My impression is that this is more about the financial rules, while the bill prepared by the Minister is very much based on matters such as care procurement and customer communication. The current legislative proposal therefore places more emphasis on care. The Christian Union amendment now adds a number of financial matters. Does this not fundamentally undermine the proper balance in the current law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u8	First of all, I apologize to my colleagues for having these amendments communicated. It was a busy day and yesterday it was no different. So I apologize again. I'd like to answer the questions. Half of the money that health insurance companies work with is raised by the insured. From my point of view, I believe that it is 23 billion; that is a considerable amount. Of course, I think it is very good that insured people will be able to participate in the consultation process, through the advisory right on the purchase of care. I think that's the most important thing. That is the great gain of this law. I am also very pleased that this is being discussed tonight. But at the same time, because those insured people spend so much money, I can imagine that they will also be heard when it comes to financial choices: how are we going to use the resources we have and which we are not legally obliged to retain? I don't mean for the insured to sit on the board seat. Nor is it my intention for insured persons to assume financial responsibilities. That would be way too much to ask. However, my group believes that it is fair that you, as a contributor, should consider how your health insurance provider uses the funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u9	I understand the answer and I also find the goal very sympathetic. Only, I think it's very legal and financial complex. I think that the amendment and the explanatory statement are somewhat limited, so that I can make a very difficult choice there. But I'd like to hear the Minister's explanation. I have another question about the sub-heading e: 'The way in which the health insurance company recruits new insured persons'. The current legislative proposal already allows for participation in customer communication. Can Mrs Dik-Faber explain how this new ground "e" in her amendment differs substantially from the customer communication already contained in the current proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u10	I think that customer communication relates to the contacts with insured persons, and that sub-paragraph (e) in the amendment, on the way in which the health insurance provider recruits new insured persons, is really explicitly about the annual changeover circus. I do not know if you can say that there are whole debates on this in this Chamber, but it has been a substantial part of debates at a number of times. Especially from the point of view of the SP, I think, is involved against the switching circus, including all the gifts that insured people get. As far as I can tell, it's not in the current bill. My Amendment No 15 (e) would comply with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mrs Dik-Faber just said: I do not want the insured to be jointly responsible. That's pretty good. So we do have rights, but we do not have obligations. The insurer now has to be financially accountable for his choices. We have also seen crystal clear in the Minister's replies that the Council of State also says that you are going to the extreme with regard to the public conditions you impose on private institutions. We've all put the health insurance companies in place as gatekeepers, just to keep an eye on the cost of care. So I would very much like to hear from Mrs Dik-Faber a reflection on why there are rights and no duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u12	In the past, we have talked very often about two words in this Chamber. One word is "control" and the other word is "control." As far as my group is concerned, you should want to give insured people maximum control. That's not possible, because your insured persons are in other legislative proposals that give clients or residents the driver's position at that time. We shouldn't confuse those two. But I do think it is important that there is maximum participation. This bill regulates this in the form of participation, participation for people insured with their health insurance company in a cooperative model, in which they can indicate to their insurer what they think is important in what happens to their money. These insured persons provide half of the amounts that the health insurance provider works with. So I think it is very important for them to be able to decide on this, that they can at least indicate to their insurer: I think it is important that this happens with the premium money. A health insurance company makes choices in this respect. I just mentioned two choices. Such a choice is for example: do I offer an additional package, or do I do something with the amount of the premium? It's about non-statutory buffers being held. Plus, you have choices. Of course, the management of a health insurance company has its own responsibility, but that the insured people have a say in it, because they spend half the money, I think it is a question of decency. Very briefly on the matter of the Council of State. Of course, I have also seen that these are private organisations with public conditions. In recent years, I have come to know the CDA as a party that considers the public anchoring of private organisations to be extremely important. In fact, I am a little surprised that this question comes mainly from the CDA, because these public guarantees are so very important for the CDA Group and for my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u13	It is right for Mrs Dik-Faber to point out that shared responsibility for the CDA is one of the four principles and therefore very important for the way in which we want to organise society. But Mrs Dik-Faber goes much further into that. She says: participation also means that the driver, the insurer, must give an explanation and still get a piece of permission. In her view, he has to explain why he says, for example, that I do not want to use my reserves for this year, because there are all kinds of other developments coming towards us. This means that the insured person will be part of the insurer's seat, while there is also a separate financial supervisor. There are separate negotiations with all healthcare institutions. So the health insurance companies already have a lot of chess to play on, and then Mrs Dik-Faber actually wants to say: you simply cannot decide on the finances anymore; you are responsible as a driver, but I decide what to do, and if something happens, if it goes wrong, then you are responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think the CDA Group sees it a little too gloomy. The health insurance company is a cooperative of insured persons. So it's not like we've got the health insurance company around here somewhere, and that's where the insured people are. No, the health insurance company is a co-operative of insured people. Those insured persons should be able to participate in the policy of the health insurance company, which makes the purchase on their behalf. I think it is very important that at least that part is secured with this bill. Then all those insured people pay off money, 23 billion together. That's half the money spent by that health insurance company. I think it is very important that the board of that health insurance company has at least heard how the members, who together form the cooperative of the health insurance company, are in the discussion when choices have to be made at some point. It's their money. They contribute and with their money that care is bought. I think they should at least have the right to have a say in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u15	I'm gonna keep going at this point. I listened very carefully to Mrs Dik-Faber's wording. I heard her say in a nutshell that insured people should be able to take part in the decision. That seems dangerous to me, especially when you look at what has just been appointed by Mrs Van den Berg. Both De Nederlandsche Bank and the Council of State have explicitly said: "Dear Minister, framework it a little more firmly, otherwise you run the risk that insured persons may be called upon through the Financial Supervision Act." With this amendment, I believe that you will open a door that will allow this to happen. Aren't you gonna put the horse behind the cart? Because if I am insured and I would like to interfere with my insurer's policy and I am going to run a risk, possibly through the Financial Supervision Act, I am going to scratch my ears three more times if I want to. On the contrary, we want insured persons to talk to their insurer about the purchase of care, because on the care side we want insured people to have a role and to be able to talk to their insurer about the design of the purchase of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u16	I actually like what Mr Veldman says about being in conversation. If you organise a form of participation, it is indeed not "co-decided" but are in conversation with each other. Let the health insurance companies show that they are making the right choices, even in the financial sense. That is, of course, where the responsibility lies with the management of that health insurance provider. I would not want insured persons, in any way whatsoever, to be taxed financially or to be affected by decisions taken by the health insurance provider. At the same time, it is the insured who bring in all the money. There is a framework in legislation, but there is also scope outside the legislation, for example for a form of, as Mr Veldman says, "to be in conversation" about how we are going to spend that money. I think it makes a lot of sense for a co-operative that you're talking to the insured people about how to bet that part of the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u17	I don't think we're in agreement then. I'm curious to hear the Minister's reaction right away. I haven't heard Mrs Dik-Faber yet about the risk she's taking by opening the door so that eventually there's a line towards the Financial Supervision Act and insured people can get behind, because then you might have to scratch yourself as an insured person three times behind your ears to talk at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u18	I listened very carefully to Mr Veldman. I do not see that risk, to be honest, and I am also very interested in the Minister's response on this point. I would also like to take a good look at my amendment, because if it turns out that the Financial Supervision Act does indeed affect this, I will certainly be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u19	I still have a need to help Mrs Dik-Faber, so to speak. I have the idea that words are now being taken out of context. Mrs Dik-Faber doesn't say: we're gonna sit at the board table and we're gonna hit each other with the hammer. The right of participation and the right of consultation, as explained in this explanatory memorandum, do not go that far. The point is that you have the conversation with each other and then the health insurance provider, if he does not agree with the advice of the insured person, can ignore that argument. But then, of course, you already have a completely different situation than not listening to the insured. It is also quite literally stated in the explanatory statement on page 29: "It is not the intention of the law to prescribe that the full scope of these policy areas should be extended to include the area that Mrs Dik-Faber wishes to add and for all details participation should take place. It shall be left to the health insurer and the representation of insured persons to provide further guidance on the arrangements for participation." That is to explain Mrs Dik-Faber's proposal. If you interpret it so carefully and implement it very carefully, I don't think there are any risks. Mrs Dik-Faber goes even further than I do with my proposal on investment policy, which clearly distinguishes between financial policy in the broad sense and only investment policy. For me, the core of this law is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have a feeling you're about to make some kind of input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u21	Let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u23	The question is: does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me that investment policy also directly affects the interests of insured persons and that it therefore, as she says in financial policy, also fits in with the spirit of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u24	Indeed, I have just listened carefully to Mrs Ellemeet's speech. I found it extremely interesting. I am very curious about the Minister's response to this. I think she is right to point out that this law is intended to ensure that insured persons are properly informed about all kinds of issues that affect them specifically. Then that financial component will certainly be included as far as my group is concerned at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u25	That's what I'm talking about: having the conversation. Nor do I think that insurance companies should say in investment policy: you should no longer invest in a particular sector or you should achieve a minimum rate of return. No, it's just that there's an element of socially responsible investment in it. This is a good framework and should be discussed between insured persons and health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u26	I think Mrs Ellemeet has explained her amendment well. I understand her intention and am very curious about the Minister's response to the two amendments. Mr. Chairman. The representation, the member council, should reflect correctly the insured population of the insurer concerned. This now only refers to age and training as characteristics. At the same time, I read in the written reply that the Minister finds the regional organisation of care and the diversity of the care to be contracted important issues on which insured persons can provide relevant input. But then it is all the more important that the composition of the representation also looks at the place of residence, regional distribution and the diversity of insured persons. I have tabled an amendment on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u27	There's a question about that. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u28	I think that is a very interesting amendment. It says that the diversity and composition of the representation have been taken into account. I have a question about that. Do you mean men and women, or any other kind of diversity? With regard to the place of residence, I have a question about the law. Article 29 (2) of the Health Insurance Act states that it is sometimes permitted for health insurers to operate only in a certain part of the Netherlands. This amendment would mean that insured persons should be recruited everywhere in the Netherlands, while certain insurers should only be active in a particular area. How does this amendment fit in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr Raemakers has looked for this extremely expertly. I am going to consider this because I do not have the answer to that question ready. I don't know. I'll get back to you on that. In reply to the first question, it seems to me very desirable that men and women should be sufficiently represented in representative representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. You were explaining the second amendment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yes. I was with the second amendment I tabled. I have an amendment in preparation which adds a delegation basis, so that other areas of policy to which public participation and advisory law apply can be identified by general administrative action. For example, if the evaluation shows that there is a need to extend the right of participation and advice, we have a hook in the law and then we can implement that adjustment directly. That amendment is not yet ready. I'd like to hear what the Minister thinks of this thought. So it's not a substantive change, it's just a hook in the law so that when a general measure of governance is taken, things can be adjusted if necessary. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Minister has amended the bill in response to my questions. This gives the representation the duty to regularly take stock of the wishes and opinions of insured persons, but also to inform the insured persons of their work and the results thereof. Research shows that the transparency of the current member and insured councils is inadequate and there is little communication with the insured. This has got to be better. I welcome the letter of amendment, but how do we ensure that insured persons are effectively and adequately consulted and informed? Is the Minister prepared to do a hand-out to the insured representatives? Can he also specify what can be expected of the health insurer in terms of support for the members' council? Mr. Chairman. The health insurance provider is obliged to take the contribution of the insured persons into the design of the draft purchasing policy that is submitted to the representative on an annual basis. It is then up to the representative to assess whether the contribution of insured persons has been adequately done. Isn't that a little weird? Because how can the representation judge this correctly? Is it not right for health insurers to argue that the contribution of insured persons has been sufficient? Mr. Chairman. It is important that representation be given sufficient time to advise on the annual healthcare procurement policy to be drawn up before 1 April. This is the only point on which the representation is currently given an advisory right. The law states that the representation should reasonably be given sufficient time. Now we know that the deadlines are largely fixed within the Health Insurance Act. It should therefore be relatively easy to draw up some kind of timetable for the submission of the opinion and the delivery of the opinion. Does the Minister see opportunities to colour this more, so that representations know better where they stand and to prevent different interpretations of the law by different insurers? Of course, we assume that the health insurance company and the representation come together, but if that doesn't work, nothing is actually settled in the bill, except the corridor to the canton court. In the explanatory statement, the Minister states that the Supervisory Board can play a role in dispute resolution, but this role is not defined in the legislative proposal. In fact, this means that the representation has nothing to fall back on. Is the Minister prepared to look again at alternative dispute resolution options? Mr. Chairman. According to the draft law, the new representations do not replace the existing members' and insurance councils, but in practice it can work out that way. Can both exist side by side and how is rolling mixing prevented? Mr President, I will conclude. I started my contribution with the story of Wout. Wout will soon wave off as a member of the Menzis Council of Members. He may transfer the stick to a new batch on 1 January 2020. The fact that as many as 1,500 people have reported for the 41 places available strengthens me in the belief that the bill meets a need. I look forward to the Minister's answers to all my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. There is one more question for you from Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u33	I have another question about the information position of the population, but also of the insured and of us as the House of Representatives. We have often had discussions in this Chamber about budget ceilings, rates and waiting lists. Each time we come to the conclusion that the health insurance companies are a kind of black box for us when it comes to how they spend their resources. The SP has made two proposals: one to strengthen the information position of insured persons and one to give the General Court access to insurers so that we can have a better view of how all this public money is spent. My question to the Christian Union is whether it thinks this is a good idea and whether it wants to embrace this type of proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u34	I assume that you are referring to the amendments to items Nos. 10 and 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u35	Very good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u36	I'm gonna have to take a good look at this. I have not yet had an opportunity to look at the amendments. They've just been distributed and they're on my desk. I'm gonna take a look at it. I understand the intent and I also know the plea of the SP. Transparency in general is a good thing. So I am going to look at the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink can make his own contribution immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. The promise of the Health Insurance Act was that it would all become better and more efficient. There would also be more freedom of choice for the patient. In the meantime, we can see that these promises have not been fulfilled. Why don't you go talk to the caregivers about efficiency? They're getting horndolly from the accountability bureaucracy. And there is also little or no evidence that market forces have improved care. It seems in everything that the freedom of choice for the consumer at the moment is mainly reflected in a huge choice of numerous policies from many different health insurance companies, with a lot of small prints and lots of variants that very often do not come across much different. There are different prices for the same insurance and sometimes minimal differences, to send people as deep as possible into the forest. And often freedom of choice is now reserved only for those who can pay it and afford a refund policy. Mr. Chairman. It is also no surprise that, as SP, we are not happy with the role that health insurers currently play in this healthcare system. We believe that the concern of all of us is that we should decide on this together and pay for it out of solidarity. Healthcare insurers have been given a crucial role without being able to be addressed by society as to their functioning. We have often discussed this with the government, for example with Secretary of State Blokhuis about the ggz. Then we ask him: can you clarify the role of health insurance companies around the waiting lists in the ggz? He can't. We don't have a visual on that. We have no idea what the health insurance companies are doing to reduce waiting lists. We do not see the budget ceilings they set, the rates they apply and what this means for the functioning of care. For example, do they set ceilings for institutions that actually have room to deal with? Many of these kinds of questions are never answered. The insurers, the government says, are private organizations. And this government doesn't want to interfere with the healthcare market. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are dealing with a system of private insurers leads to very strange situations. For example, we have a very limited view of where the EUR 50 billion spent in the Health Insurance Act exactly ends up. The government can also impose very limited requirements on insurers, supposedly because they are market players. Or, as the Minister states in his explanatory statement, the directive aims to promote a level playing field in cross-border competition between insurers. This is about the Solvency II Directive. So I'm thinking, are we still talking about health care? Cross-border competition between insurers and a level playing field: that language alone shows that things are very wrong here. The SP notes that in this healthcare system, the general interest, i.e. the interest of everyone to receive good care, has become subordinate to the importance of this so-called cross-border competition between insurers. I ask the Minister if he can explain this. Why is cross-border competition so important in healthcare? Why does it force us into a mould, which prevents us from making demands on the public task of these insurers? Why doesn't he choose to provide the best possible care, rather than compete in insurance? Mr. Chairman. The law that we are discussing now needs to ensure that insured persons are given greater influence over their health insurance by means of a representation, a member's council. What exactly is going to change to the current practice is, frankly, not exactly clear to me. The Minister states that conditions are now laid down in the law, but are these conditions so harsh that this will also improve effective participation? Or is this law above all a confirmation of what has been happening in practice for years and what, if we are very honest, is not so much about it? For many people, contact with the health insurance provider is very difficult. There is often just one-way traffic. As an individual insured person, you are not strong at all, for example if certain care is not reimbursed or if you are told that you cannot go to the healthcare provider you want to go to. There is also often a lack of information. For example, people have to read in the newspaper that a hospital no longer takes in insured persons from a particular insurer, but they have no idea what agreements this comes through. And people have to guess how the insurance company handles waiting lists. I have just mentioned the ggz, but the same applies to the community care. Is there really no place at the healthcare provider's choice or are certain purchasing arrangements made so that someone can't go? My question to the Minister is: is an insured person not simply entitled to this kind of information? Can't he just know what appointments make him unable to go to the health care provider of his choice? I would ask the Minister to respond to this point. Does the Minister also support the amendment tabled by the SP to oblige the insurer to provide as much information as possible on purchasing arrangements, budget ceilings and waiting lists? I am well aware that this obligation to provide information cannot, of course, solve the fundamental problems in the system. Of course, this does not change the lack of a broad basic policy for everyone, the budget ceilings and the policy jungle. But as long as the Minister does not address these problems, such a duty of information can help us to better expose the bottlenecks in the current system. Mr. Chairman. The SP also likes to hear the Minister's views on our proposal to give the General Court access to insurers. There is something very strange going on, because the health insurance companies are in everything a great party to be examined by the General Court, but it does not happen. In all these debates we have had here over the last few years, I can tell you how much I need to check once again the effective and effective use of resources by health insurance companies, that I wonder why we in the Chamber can't decide to just admit the Court of Auditors to the insurers once, so that we can get that insight. I do not think that this is a political activity at all, nor does it need to emphasise any ideological difference between the parties. It is purely a matter of having the Court of Auditors examine how public funds are spent on health insurers. We believe that this will give you a good insight into the use of premium and tax money. I think we all have that need. I ask the Minister if he agrees. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that caregivers do not need to participate in the insurer, as he writes, they already have influence through the contracting and negotiation. My question is whether the Minister really meant this remark seriously. Does he really think that all those little providers who have to sign the cross now have an impact on the health insurance company? I think it was last year, or the year before that I rolled out 30 metres of paper here once on contracts and letters from physiotherapists who wanted to negotiate the rates and conditions with the health insurance provider. All these physiotherapists, the role was 30 meters long, when the health insurance provider received the same rejection note, including the same spelling errors. So I'm just saying you shouldn't think that negotiating and contracting affects a health insurance company. Does the Minister recognise that for many caregivers a serious conversation about care purchase, conditions and rates is not really possible at all? What's he gonna do to change that? Unfortunately, caregivers will not be represented through the insured. The formal procurement policy is presented to the representation, but the representation has nothing to say about the actual care purchase and the contracts that are then concluded with healthcare providers. However, it seems that this legislative proposal represents a minimal change for the democratic control of health insurers. And my question is: are people actually waiting for this? When I talk about, for example, our plan for a national care fund with care providers or just with normal people who have health insurance and want good care, I often get to hear: please get rid of that switch-over circus. Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned that too. The transition circus, the commercials, the madness with all the policies and countless choices that make you no longer see the forest through the trees: it drives people crazy. They're not waiting to check on their health insurance company at all. They just want good care, preferably in a public system. Let us decide on this together in this Chamber in a democratic manner. People are not waiting at all for the transition from one health insurance provider to another. That's the feeling that it's even if you're bitten by the dog or by the cat. Of course, that is often the case. It is very logical that people from the government should ask for accessible, good and inclusive care to be provided for them, without bureaucracy, without a transition circus and with doctors who decide instead of insurers what good and effective care is. I don't think we should fool each other. Most of them don't want those hink-step jumps. In the end, we just want that public system, that national care fund. I'll ask the Minister if he feels the same way. Isn't it time we went that way? I like that an attempt is being made here to give the insured more influence. But of course it's not much more than advice. The Minister literally states in his explanatory statement that "the health insurer is not obliged to take over what has been brought forward through participation." Isn't that a very harsh interpretation of participation and control? You may say something, but no one, no insurance company, is even somewhat bound by what is said in a member's council. That is why we have tabled an amendment to give the insured persons effective control over their insurer. If it does not happen here in Parliament, then the insured must do it. As far as the SP is concerned, this law is inadequate. It is a step towards increasing control of health insurers, but the real problem is that care remains outsourced under this government to non-democratically controlled health insurers. This problem is certainly not addressed by this law either. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you. I look at the Chamber and see that Mr Veldman of the VVD is already standing up to provide his input in the first term. He estimated it himself for seven minutes. Go ahead, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Doctors and nurses, of course, play an important and perhaps the most important role in health care, but health insurers also have a role to play in our system. Healthcare insurers buy care for their insured persons and make arrangements with healthcare providers. In doing so, they make an important contribution to affordable, accessible and high quality care for all of us, and in particular, of course, for those who are insured with the relevant insurer. So it makes sense that insurers are also in conversation with their insured and that insurers know how their insured people feel about how that insurer does its job. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the work that an insurer does, many people will naturally look at the premium they pay. And that makes sense. It is also logical that people should vote with their feet if they feel that the premium is too high or if there is insufficient compensation from supplementary insurance. Every year, an insured person can change insurance companies. If an insurer is cheaper, you can switch. If you are not satisfied with the additional package, you can leave. Mr. Chairman. This so-called voices with the feet is of course a firm and perhaps especially ultimate means. It starts, of course, with talking to insured persons, and so it is good that the government agreement has agreed that we should establish a legal framework for this, which lays down a number of basic principles. It will therefore be no surprise that the VVD supports this law. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we see a great deal happening in practice every day. Of course, insurance companies have known for longer than today that it is good to involve insured people in the choices that are being made. Fortunately, health insurers already offer enormous opportunities for participation. As early as 2010, Menzis launched the Platform Medemenz where insured people can engage in dialogue with the health insurance provider about care and health insurance. I just saw several employees of health insurance companies on Twitter. CZ, VGZ, Interpolis: they all have a membership council that meets four, five times and some even eight times a year. Eight times a year, I think it's almost a day job! Mr. Chairman. In all these forms of participation, it is good to keep a broad focus. It is about the importance of all insured persons and not just about the importance of patients. It is therefore important that the insured person's influence is not limited to patient influence. I would like to know from the Minister whether and how it is ensured that the insured person's influence is balanced and that a wide range of interests are heard from insured persons. Mr. Chairman. This law responds to a number of points in the Quality Programme, in which the focus is on increasing and making the quality of care more transparent in order to improve the affordability of care. The third progress report of this Quality programme has shown that almost all points have been taken forward and that the law we are discussing here tonight to determine the influence of insured persons on insurers is part of no less than 21 measures. A number of other points of this programme are still relevant. For example, making the quality of care clear was already very important, but in the future I think this will only become more important, because the care and the demand for care will change. New technologies will take the place of old ones, including new quality standards. In addition, informing patients about the quality and cost of care remains a matter of attention. Active transparency in the cost of care is a requirement that is also demandable from insured persons. Transparency not only creates understanding, but also more confidence. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The VVD welcomes the fact that the insured are legally given the opportunity to discuss the policy. This increases support and confidence. Drivers and health insurers are and will remain final responsibility when it comes to the decision-making power in policy making. The final result of this law must be that there will be more quality. That will make us all better!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u41	There is a question for you from Mrs Dik-Faber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u42	I just had a little debate with Mr Veldman on my amendment. I have just taken up the explanatory statement, because Mr Veldman is concerned that insured persons are seen as co-policy-makers and policy-makers within the meaning of the Financial Supervision Act. I have here on page 19 that the government says: "This gives the possibility of broadening participation, for example, to issues that affect financial and economic policy. Since participation means that insured persons can express their views and wishes, this is in line with the opinion of DNB that insured persons can provide valuable input on premium setting or other (financial) policy issues. That is precisely what participation is meant for." And a few more sentences: "the lack of control and the right of veto for representation means that the representation cannot be seen as (co-) policy determiner within the meaning of the Wft." So if we decide to do so, it is possible that the participation will be regulated without the insurance companies being employed in accordance with the Financial Supervision Act. Does Mr Veldman share these comments from the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u43	What Mrs Dik-Faber is actually asking is whether I share her proposal to amend the law even further. I have my doubts about that. I've been looking at the course of law history. There's a law delivered to the Chamber. Then there was a critical note from De Nederlandsche Bank and there was a critical note from the Council of State. The explanatory memorandum has been tightened on this point. That doesn't just happen. This tightening was obviously necessary to prevent what happened from happening as the concern expressed by De Nederlandsche Bank and the concern expressed by the Council of State, namely that you open the door to a route in which you, as an insured person, end up in contact with the Financial Supervision Act. When I read your amendment, which we received just before the start of this debate, I am concerned about that. I can't wait to see how the Minister reacts. I would also like to hear from the Minister how he sees this risk. I see this risk for the time being, and it's a risk I don't want to run. As I said earlier in an interruption I committed to you, I would not want insured persons to be placed in a position where they are ultimately liable for what is happening financially. I don't think we should go on that road, 'cause you're gonna put the horse behind the cart. Then there is no longer an insured person who sits on a member's council, because otherwise he is at far too high a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u44	Of course, insured persons as members of the membership council should not be financially liable. But I think that is exactly what I have just read out from the explanatory statement. There is no right of veto and there is no question of control, but only of participation. Involvement on financial and economic matters is also very possible in accordance with the opinion of De Nederlandsche Bank. If we take this literally, the question is only: do we want to give that participation as politically assured people, or do we not want to? That is ultimately a political judgement, but I think it can be done within the framework of De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u45	Fortunately, we can see that a lot of good is already happening in practice. I want us to establish with this law that insured people can talk to their insurer, and thus have a position to talk to each other about the care purchase. This way they can work together to ensure the quality of the care we all strive for. That's my purpose with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA's turn. She had also thought to speak for ten minutes. We're gonna live to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Not about us, but with us" is a slogan that is in place here today. Today we are discussing the bill that gives insured people more influence on the health insurance company's work. We think that is a good proposal. We increase the influence of the insured, so that they can make their voices hear more. The members of the CDA Group understand that each has its own role in the system and that we must ensure that insured persons do not sit in the seat of the health insurance company's directors. This is guaranteed by the present participation scheme. It is good to evaluate the law and see if it meets the objectives: participation and increased transparency in the care procurement policy and customer communication policy. This is certainly important in view of the chosen form of participation, the requirement for grassroots consultation and the requirement for health insurers to explain more about the choices of care purchasing policies. The CDA can assume that, in addition to the law, the chosen form will also be evaluated after three years. Mr. Chairman. As far as Article 28b (2)a is concerned, we, as CDA, still have a few questions. We are concerned that the representation is a good reflection of the insured population. Age and training are now being taken into account. Previously, care use was included, but eventually removed from the legislative proposal. We think that's a missed opportunity. The CDA considers it important that, in addition to age, young and old, and education, higher education and lower education, more and less care use is included. It is important to get a good reflection of the insured population. Less and more use of care can help to ensure good representation. Can the government explain once again why it was not elected in the end? There have also been a number of tasks in recent years for health insurers, which people with disabilities and chronically ill have to make great use of. Think, for example, of community nursing. In addition, someone who needs more care, perhaps also has a different picture of the health insurance provider than someone who needs less care, let alone someone who just doesn't have to use his own risk. Or does the government think that standing up for people with high care use is a specific task for interest groups of chronically ill and people with disabilities? Can the Minister explain what the difference is between an insurance council and an interest organisation? Mr. Chairman. Then, in relation to this article, the role of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. It is an effort obligation and the NZa only checks whether it is guaranteed by law, but not whether the final composition of the actual representation is representative. Why not? Paper's patient. I have already said at other times that laws without effect are worthless. As American President Abraham Lincoln said: if you don't force a law, it's just a good advice. I will come back to this later, but the role of the NZa in enforcing the law is an important point for us. The letter of amendment states that the representation of insured persons regularly consults and informs its members about its work and its results. The CDA considers this to be a commendable objective, but how does the government see it in practice? Who's "the grassroots"? Are these all insured persons of the health insurance provider, are they insured persons from a particular region, or are they insured persons who use a particular form of care, for example those with a personal budget who need community care? Mr. Chairman. We have previously asked for the suggestion of the Council of State to set up a dispute settlement body for disputes between a representative and a health insurance company on the participation regime. The government's expectation is that such disputes will not occur in practice and that the Supervisory Board will then be able to fulfil that role. Of course, so does the CDA Group, but in the event that it does not succeed: is not a dispute body always preferable to the court? Again the question to the government to explain why it does not see the added value of a dispute body. Mr. Chairman. In various debates, the CDA has drawn attention to the unequal bargaining position of individual paramedics, such as physiotherapists, dietists and logopedists. Do we now understand correctly: can the Insurance Board also provide advice on how to contract with healthcare providers? Finally, one final point, namely the role of the NZa in the enforcement of this law. The NZa states that its role is mainly limited to carrying out a formal test. We really think this is too skinny. Again, paper is patient. Would a more practical implementation test not help with the success rate of this bill? We are considering tabling a motion on this point, so we would like to hear the Minister's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you. Mr Veldman has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u49	In the latter, I have the more practical question of how Mrs Van den Berg imagines that exactly. An execution key sounds like you also need parameters for what exactly happens. I think the charming thing about the law is that it is not prescribed to have health insurers talking to insured people. You can think of all kinds of forms for that. I do like to see that there may also be different forms, even more than there are already. A performance test always sounds like a sort of ticking list to me: is there a member council, is there this, is there, sister and all that. If you didn't have some ticks, you wouldn't be doing your job, when that insurance company might have found a brilliant form that everyone will use in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u50	We are afraid that the NZa will only use that ticking list. "Have you made a protocol, do you have meetings? Then it's tick in the box." We are afraid that there will not be a proper representative representation, in accordance with what we have agreed here in the law. We do not have so many insurers at the end of the day, so we think that the NZa should really look at this a little bit more in terms of content, not just procedurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u51	Then you are ready and I give the floor to Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The Dutch healthcare system is among the best in the world. Year in, year out we score high in various international research. It is not wrong that our concern should be at international level. The care in our country is of a high quality, accessible and of a solidarity nature. As coalition parties, we are contributing to this accessibility, including by cutting our own contribution and, more recently, by extending the healthcare allowance by EUR 185 million per year from next year onwards. As a result, the number of beneficiaries increases by 40,000 people. But the fact that our concern and the system are of high quality does not mean that we can rest on our laurels here. There's still a lot of work to be done. D66 sees more than enough opportunities to further improve the quality of care. At the same time, the rise in healthcare demand presents us with the challenge of keeping care affordable for everyone, but also accessible for the future. In our current healthcare system, the patient is at all times central to D66. By always approaching our care from the perspective, the need for care and the autonomy of the patient, necessary improvements in care can be achieved in the coming years. In this transition to the right care in the right place, not only healthcare providers play a role. As far as D66 is concerned, health insurers can also offer a great deal of added value to the patient. We would like them to be specifically involved in making the quality clear and promoting it. Unfortunately, however, the potential added value of health insurers has so far not been sufficiently highlighted by the insured. Insured people often do not know how a health insurance provider can support them in getting the care they need as individuals. Research shows, for example, that only 12% of insured persons have ever taken advantage of the so-called health care advice given by the health insurance provider. Only 12%! I think that is an extraordinary shame. Also, it is often not clear to insured persons why a health insurance provider makes specific choices. Let me give you a few examples. Why, for example, does a health insurance company agree to a healthcare ceiling with a provider? Why doesn't the insurer always sign a contract with every healthcare provider? What are the consequences of these choices for the insured? How is that actually communicated? To what extent does the insurer take into account the wishes of his insured persons? The many emails that insured people send to us, and probably also to other members of the House of Representatives, confirm that sound. I see that as a sign on the wall. The insured person deserves a better explanation and, rightly, wants to have more influence on the choices made about his or her health insurance. After all, the insured person is the one that matters. The insured must therefore become more central to our system. Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today therefore welcomes D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u53	There are two questions right away. I think Mr. Hijink got up a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr Raemakers is actually making a warm plea for one of the amendments I have tabled. It's about information law. Mr Raemakers felt it was very important for insured persons to be able to understand at all times the choices made by an insurer when it comes to ceilings, waiting lists and so on. Does he support the proposal I am making? That as a patient, you can always come to your insurance company and ask: explain what appointments you make with this healthcare provider so I can't go there? Does he support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr Hijink's view of my introduction as an interpretation of support for his amendment is going a little too fast for me. I think there is a difference between the communication on why certain policies are designed in this way and the policy itself. I mentioned a number of aspects: why are budget ceilings agreed and why does a health insurance company choose to conclude contracts with certain healthcare providers and not with others? I think that a lot of insured people, so residents of the Netherlands, have no idea why that is. I see in this bill that customer communication, explaining it better plays a role. But to say that it makes sense to have insured people always talk about those very complicated technical decisions, as Mr Hijink wants in his amendment? I do see a number of practical objections there, but I would naturally like to hear the Minister's views.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u56	Well, look, the people aren't stupid, I'd like to say to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u57	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u58	Insured people, patients get it very well. If they have a particular care question, want a specific provider in, for example, the ggz and get to hear from their insurer "you can't go there because we made agreements with them," then I think that insured person has the right to know what those agreements are. We hear very often that healthcare providers are already running into a budget ceiling in June or sometimes in April. That is simply an agreement imposed by the insurer: you can only provide care for so much euros per year. If that means that a patient doesn't end up there, then I think he has a right to know that's because of the agreements that have been made. Doesn't it make sense for you to give that kind of openness to patients instead of a general conversation about policy? No, it's all about those very specific moments. At times like this, you need to know what's going on. I expect a party such as D66, who is always talking about democracy, transparency and openness, to support such proposals and not just the non-binding advice that a patient is allowed to give in the Members' Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u59	This is where the crux is. Why, for example, are these budget ceilings agreed between health insurers and healthcare providers? To ensure that healthcare providers help patients. We have seen, for example, that the article on Follow the Money is being carried out, for example, by specialists in the Netherlands who are not really needed. If a hospital gives treatments to patients that the patient has nothing to do with, if a hospital actually sounds a little disrespectful, it does too much production and does all treatments, but it doesn't really make people better, then that's not fair towards patients and towards insured people. We need to show much better, including to patients, why these kinds of agreements are made. These kinds of agreements are made to ensure that people who are sick and can be helped with a certain procedure are helped where they are best helped. That could be the hospital, but it could also be the first line, the GP or the physiotherapist. That's the honest story about care. The health insurers and politicians are not able to tell that story properly at the moment, but that is the story we have to tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u60	A very brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u61	That's another confirmation of exactly the point I'm trying to make. Take those knee surgery. If, in the eyes of an insurer, a healthcare provider carries out too many surgeries, he should at that moment tell that patient: you can't go there anymore because we think he's done too many surgeries. But that doesn't happen because that decision-making process is a kind of black box for patients. We have no idea what kind of choices insurers make at such a time. That is why we want transparency. We do not want you to get all this uncertainty, which means that patients do not know what they are up to, but that you simply put open and transparent on the table: these are the agreements that have been made and this is why you cannot go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u63	That transparency, that's what I'm all for. I am also in favour of bringing scientific research, for example in knee surgery, to patients much more clearly, also in the context of joint decision-making. I am in favour of indicating this in patients: we know this about this treatment; in so many patients this treatment is likely to have an effect, but also in a number of patients. We shouldn't give patients false hope, because that doesn't make anyone any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr Raemakers says that he thinks this is an important legislative proposal, an important legislative amendment, because insured people need to have more say in the issues that concern them directly. I fully agree with him, but my question to Mr Raemakers is: does he share my analysis that this investment policy affects those insured directly, especially when it comes to investment in the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u65	D66 shares with GroenLinks the desire to reduce the price of medicines. This can be achieved through a number of measures, such as greater transparency. I think that we should also look at a European approach in the case of medicines. D66 thinks that's very important. We really do see a role for the Minister in that. I therefore find Mrs Ellemeet's amendment very sympathetic. However, I do see a number of practical problems which I would like to hear from the Minister. One of these is the next point. There are now also health insurance companies that not only offer health insurance, but also insurance for a home or for a car. What's the deal with that? So I see a few practical problems. I would like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u66	I am pleased that the principle is as important for Mr Raemakers and for D66 as for GroenLinks. I'm not surprised. I know D66 as a party that also has a heartfelt interest in this subject and comes forward with proposals. For example, a colleague has previously proposed an initiative law to give direct participation to pension participants...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u67	Are we gonna stick with this input?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u68	Well, it's about investments. The participation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u69	The interruptions are getting a little long. That's why I'm trying to narrow you down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u70	I understand, Mr. Chairman. But I would just like to point out that I see that D66 is also taking initiatives. There has been talk of health insurers in a larger group. Of course, we can say very well that we want to define this and that we believe that health insurers should be accountable for their investment policy. It seems to me that it is a good right for insured persons to be held accountable. A health insurance company is a big organization that invests heavily, so we also want to know what happens to that money. After all, it's our money too. I therefore believe that we have very practical solutions to these practical problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Raemakers, you can respond to it, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u72	I had indeed said that I see some practical objections. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to that, so let us wait and see. Mr President, if I may, I will go a little bit more into the content of the legislative proposal, because that is what we are here for, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u73	Oh, yeah. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u74	What problems are there now in practice? First of all, good dialogue is still too often lacking. Too often there is insufficient communication between individual insured persons and the health insurance provider about the relevant choices. It is about care purchasing policy and customer communication policy, but also about policy offerings, for example. Of course, insurance companies must understand why policy choices are being made. They also want to be involved in these choices. They want to talk about those important issues that concern them. For insured persons it is often too unclear to what extent they have the opportunity to sit at the table and talk with them. Mr. Chairman. There we also have the second key word: transparency. Where, what and to what extent are insured people allowed to talk? Then what happens to that participation? There are some online platforms and there are representation bodies. Some health insurance companies are already working very actively on this, but D66 has the idea that there is still a battle to be won here. Fortunately, this bill provides the insured with some useful handles. The legislative proposal strengthens their position by tightening the legal framework for insured persons'influence with different minimum requirements. Individual insured persons will now have standard participation in care procurement and customer communication policies, the two most important policy areas for insured persons. Insurers will also have to define how they will in future inform the insured about the results of this participation and what has ultimately been done with participation. For D66 it is very important that it is not just about talking along, but that health insurers really show what happens next with that participation. Finally, this legislative proposal also strengthens the role of permanent insurance representation by giving it an advisory right on care procurement policy and also requiring health insurers to provide the representation of all necessary data, information and resources. The combination of elements I have just listed must ensure that in the future there is a better link between the health insurance provider and the insured person, and that health insurance companies will now act even more in the interests of their insured persons. The legislative proposal fits in so nicely with the vision that D66 advocates: a health care system with a central role for the patient, the insured. We therefore look forward with confidence to the results of the legislative proposal. Finally, I would like to put the following very specific question to the Minister. D66 considers it important for each patient to be heard, including a younger patient. The health insurance works differently for them, because until you're 18, you don't pay contributions and your own risk. But for young people who, for example, have a serious condition, care procurement and good communication play a very important role. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to consider improving the role of young people. Can he make that a point of attention in the conversation with health insurance companies? I myself am thinking of a kind of commitment on the part of insurers to involve young people under the age of 18 with a disease or illness, but also young people who do not use care, in the policy of a health insurance provider. 'Cause learning young is old-fashioned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you very much. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. Chairman. If only we had more influence on the health insurance company, that health insurance company would stay out of the doctor's office, the premium would be reduced and each patient would go to the hospital of his own choice. To realize this kind of thing, we are of course for more influence from insured persons on the health insurance provider. That is why the PVV also voted in favour of the Slob motion, i.e. to strengthen the influence of the insured person. This legislative proposal contains a number of positive things, but it does not strengthen the direct influence of insured persons, but the indirect influence through the proposed bureaucratic representation. That's too bad. Because how do you make sure that representation is representative? How do we know if an institution expresses the wishes and opinions of all insured persons? And do we have to go back and check it out? Can the Minister say anything about that? It seems, therefore, that this proposal will create more bureaucracy. In any case, it takes a lot of meetings, consultation, administration, accountability and, of course, taking a course, because you didn't just master that care purchasing process. And you're gonna have to explain it to your constituents. My question to the Minister: is there a manual already in place at VWS for the insured representatives or should everyone invent the wheel themselves? Mr. Chairman. There's no other way. Strengthen the direct influence of insured persons by increasing the possibilities of contact through feedback, social media or participation evenings. Keep the lines short and informal, strengthen the complaint procedures, make problems discussable, make them taken seriously and work together on solutions. And, of course, strengthen the position of the patient organizations. Mr. Chairman. The care procurement process gets a lot of attention in this law. And that is more than right, because health insurance companies often only apply one criterion in the care purchase, and that is money. And then it can happen that at some point you don't get the best care, because you're not sent to hospital A but to hospital B or................................................................................................................................................... Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u77	Very good. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr Mulder gave a whole list of possibilities to gain more control over those health insurers. But I did not hear one possibility, and that is to bring democratic control and democratic supervision to the place where it belongs, namely in this Chamber, our national parliament. Of course, you need a public system for that. My question to the PVV: wouldn't it be much wiser to use not all the patchwork that he just mentioned but to work on a public system so that we can monitor the health insurance companies again democratically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u79	We are dealing with private organisations now, but they have an important public function. We would also like to see more balance between the three parties. We'd rather work on that than nationalize everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u80	I did not mention the word 'nationalize'. I am concerned about who is carrying out the legal task that the health insurance companies now have. They're private organizations now. You could also choose to put that in public hands and make the implementation public, so that the minister is directly accountable for what is being done by the health insurance company. But you're gonna need a different system. My question to the PVV is whether she completely dropped that idea. Do they continue to believe in the system of private, commercial providers? Or do they also want to participate in a system that is in public hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u81	Not completely public. We want to get the mistakes out of the current system. We've been working on that for a long time. This can be done through all kinds of proposals that we have made in the past and proposals from you that we have supported, but all the way back to the old situation is difficult. And again, we are not going to "nationalise"; I like to mention that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr. Chairman. That is why the PVV wants to go a little further, and that is what it comes down to in the end than described in this proposal: more attention for the entire purchasing process. And our proposal is to make all the conditions surrounding the care purchase transparent and public, so that everyone is aware of what agreements a healthcare provider has made with healthcare providers, so that patients' associations or interest groups can also properly inform their supporters. That is the way to influence the health insurance companies. In 2015 the PVV already filed a motion, which was then supported by all parties here in the Chamber except the VVD and the PvdA. In the second term, I will retable that motion, and I am now counting on a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your first term. The Minister would like a fifteen-minute preparation time to answer the questions of the Chamber neatly. I'll give him a little more space to do that, till 10:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u85	I'd like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u86	Thank you, Mr President. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We hebben het vandaag over het Wetsvoorstel verzekerdeninvloed.]] Before I answer your Chamber's questions, I would like to make a few general comments. One: the bill has its origins in the Slob motion, the Kuiper motion and the Bouwmeester/Dik-Faber motion. So that's three Christian Unions and one PvdA. So we also owe it to the initiative of the Christian Union that we are discussing this evening. After that, we also described the subject in the coalition agreement. It indicates their origin. Mr. Chairman. It is of course the case that the insurer has an important position in our healthcare system, because the insurer buys and thus can steer on quality and price. But also the insured person has an important position in the functioning of the system. This is also what the authors of the motions have indicated: the insured person must have an insight into the quality of the work and the service provided by the insurer. These are the key concepts that have been mentioned: quality and service. We need to get the valuable input from the insured person on that. Then, of course, we hope that by taking that step and organising this legal anchoring, we will ensure that the insurer becomes more alongside the insured person, for whom he does it all, and that the acceptance and trust in the health insurance provider increases with the insured person. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, so even before this new law enters into force, there is already a legal provision that states that the statutes of a health insurance company must provide guarantees for a reasonable degree of influence of insured persons on the policy. But that was too little, and that's why we wanted more. Where did we get that? Before that, there has been an extensive consultation with the field, again a few years ago, via the Internet, through an advice from Erasmus University and through stakeholder meetings. All kinds of input was collected with that. In keyword, this input leads to the following. There are points of improvement for current practice. One of these points is more dialogue between the individual insured person and the insurer. A second is that the insured person should be able to find out more easily what possibilities there are for talking and exerting influence. This also includes the feedback on what has been done with this participation. One point that has not been so explicitly raised this evening is that the existing representations must also be well-equipped. Consequently, the new legislation also provides that, for costs which are reasonably necessary to carry out the work and which relate to those activities, including training, support and legal proceedings, budget is also made available. I also think that this is a strengthening of the current situation. Mr. Chairman. This consultation also shows that the members' councils do not want to sit in the driver's seat and that they find participation particularly interesting for the care purchasing policy and customer communication policy. Those are the keywords that keep coming back, including in the bill. Those are the minimum guarantees mentioned in the law, you might say. One can do more. One can agree more in the participation scheme. Other topics can be added. But these two are organized. The individual insured person has a say in the care purchasing policy and customer communication. In addition, the representation of insured persons thus has an impact on the care purchasing policy. Again, that's a lower limit. So you can add other topics to that. There is therefore, in any case, a strengthening of the position of the insured person's representation and a strengthening of the scope for participation of individual insured persons. Thus, the representation will have a right of assent with regard to the participation regime and an advisory right with regard to the annual care procurement policy. The individual insured person is given the right to at least participate in aspects of the care purchasing policy and customer communication policy. I thought it would be a good idea to explain this, including the remark that there is therefore a lower limit of what is laid down in the law in order to increase the influence of the insured on the quality and service of the insurer. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the answer to the questions, first of all the questions put by Mrs Ellemeet. Imagine if the health insurance provider and the representation didn't come out when it came to the participation scheme. That is something that needs to be approved. Imagine that doesn't work, because it's the perception, probably from the health insurance company, that the Insurance Board is setting the bar too high or acting unreasonablely. That is what Mrs Ellemeet's first question was about. I honestly believe that parties will come out in practice, because this legislative proposal indicates that we think it is important to strengthen this representation of insured persons. So there is also an interest for the insurer to settle this properly. If there's a collision, you can get ultimum remedium to the right. This is also mentioned in the CDA's contribution. The question is whether you need to organize something in between. I find that complicated, and I'm not suggesting we do that. In practice, you will see that the supervisory authority will often be the supervisory board or the supervisory board will bring the parties to the table and that a solution will be found along that way. That seems to me to be the most practical way forward. So very pointy answer: if they don't come out, I think the route through the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board is the key to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u87	I am also hopeful that in most cases they will get out. But with this proposal, there is always something hanging over the market, namely that ultimately the health insurance company is going to be the longest. Because if they don't come out of it, they can decide independently to make their own choice. I think the problem's already there. You'll go into negotiations in a different way, not equivalent, just to put it bluntly. It would be different if I were to negotiate with you, and I would know that the Minister could ultimately decide what he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u88	I would always agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u89	Unfortunately, that is sometimes a little bit so in this position that you are in that negotiation. I don't think we should underestimate how that works. Can the Minister still reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u90	It is only once that the right of assent on the participation regime is at stake. I think there is an interest for the insurer to get out with the Insurance Board or the Members' Council. This is important for the functioning of the insurer, because we think this is an important issue. So I think there's an intrinsic motivation to get out. If this is not possible with the insurer himself, you can go to the supervisor, the supervisory board or the supervisory board. Seems like the easiest step. I think there's a lot to be done in order for it to come to this. If you can't do that, the courtroom's still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u91	I was thinking about what a solution might be. Shouldn't you turn it around? Shouldn't you say: if you don't get out, the insured person's representation will take precedence and that proposal will apply and the insurer will have to go to court? Of course, it is much easier for such a large organization to go to court than for a group representing the insured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u92	We cannot do that, because who knows what the Insurance Council or the Members' Council will come up with. That can be very compelling... It's about consent, isn't it? It's not about advisory law, it's about consent. Imagine that there is a very crazy view from the Insurance Board and that they say, for example, that this must and will be laid down in the participation scheme. For example, we have to meet every week or make it crazier. We have to drink from golden cups. You can't do that. I have started by saying that this proposal seeks to increase the participation of the insured. But we don't want them to take over the board of the company. That was not the case in the consultation either. We have to keep those scrolls separate. But I think once again that there is a great deal of concern for the parties to arrange participation through a participation system, which is approved, which can lead to that agreement being reached. I honestly believe that even the progress towards the supervisory board or the supervisory board will rarely or never occur and that the progress towards justice will be even less frequent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u93	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u94	Yes, concluding, Mr. Chairman. I hope the minister's right. It seems to me that we really need to keep our finger on the wrist or unpack it like that. Maybe that's how it works out, but maybe that's not how it works out. Do I remember being evaluated after one year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u95	No, it's been evaluated after three years. I must honestly say that Mrs Dik-Faber made a useful remark, namely to see if there is a subject on the basis of the evaluation that we still need to settle. You could make a hook like that in the law. That, I believe, is the amendment to item No. 17 we'll get later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u97	You could use that if the evaluation shows that you need to broaden or further concreteise consent. You could do that on the basis of such an evaluation, and then that hook, well organized. But I do not expect us to use that on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u98	We had asked the same question as GroenLinks. I don't know if the Minister's gonna come up with that later. It is about the combination with our question whether the Dutch Healthcare Authority will only formally check whether it will also look at the content. Can this be taken into account in the Minister's reflection in relation to this answer to GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u99	Oh, yeah. I think it's a different subject. I have tried to say that the intrinsic motivation to arrive at a participation scheme is very strong. The point made by Mrs Van den Berg was about whether the test of the NZa is just a paper test or whether it can be made a bit practical. I thought the CDA Group had announced a motion on this subject. I think it is very useful that the NZa should be able to look into its work, even after the statutes have been completed, for example by asking for the reports of the meetings, how representativeness is. That was the point the CDA Group made. I think that this could be done very well in practice, but now I am getting ahead of my response towards Mrs Van den Berg. I was only halfway through the answer towards GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u100	We were not just talking about representativeness. I'm just trying to continue with what Mrs Ellemeet has put forward. Now suppose the health insurance company finally says, "This is it." He has that authority. Then the NZa can say, because it tests the content, that the health insurance company has decided on its own in the end and I find the explanation of that really too lean. I'd like to make the combination in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u101	No. Then we're gonna get two things mixed up. I have now answered Mrs Ellemeet's question well. I will come back to the point of the NZa on the basis of the text of the draft motion of the CDA. Mr. Chairman. There was a second, certainly not uninteresting subject addressed by Mrs Ellemeet. That is the point of how we deal with investment policy. Mrs Ellemeet said that they could invest in all kinds of companies, but that they should actually stay away from investing in the pharmaceutical industry, which is hitting the market with usury profits. The whole Chamber is making a point of this, and so is your Minister. We're not done with that yet. I think that's a very interesting point, but it doesn't belong in this law. This law deals with the provision of services, which is the result of the influence of the insured. Investment policy has to do with the financing side of the company. The financing side of the company is so clearly part of the company's fiscal or financial policy, that I think they should deal with it themselves. The influence of the insured should not be taken into account. I'm just saying it out loud. I actually have a lot of sympathy for the point. At the end of her speech, Mrs Ellemeet asked whether, if I did not recommend the amendment, I would be prepared to include this issue on the agenda of insurers. Mrs Ellemeet knows that I speak with that regularly. She used the word "engagement," but I'm talking about the social role of the pharmaceutical industry and the obligation she has to make good medicine at a reasonable price. But we mean the same thing. I do not want to regulate this through this law, but I want to make it a subject and talk about it explicitly with the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u102	In fact, then, we are getting a little closer to discussing the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u103	That's right. I really disagree with the Minister about the intention of this bill. For me, the core of this bill is that we ensure the interests of insured persons and better guarantee their conversation with the health insurance company in the law. I have tried to argue that the importance of the insured person has everything to do with the investment policy of health insurers. It's not just something technical-financial that the insured person hasn't looked at at at all. No, it affects the insured very directly, because if a health insurance company invests in the pharmaceutical industry and thereby increases the prices of the medicines of that pharmaceutical industry, then the insured person pays literally the price for that. As far as I am concerned, this is one of the core and essence of the law, and that is why we should also pay attention to it in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u104	As Mrs Ellemeet said, we really do differ in this regard. I started with the purpose of this law. The aim is to strengthen the influence of insured persons through the theme "quality of care" and the service provided by the health insurance provider. This is developed through the care purchasing policy and customer communication policy. That's where the direct relationship between insurer and insured is. I consider the financing of the company to be a far-reaching link. It may well be that an insured person says: I do not want to be insured with this insurer, because it invests in expensive pharmaceutical industry. He has my blessing. But I'm not gonna settle the bill tape. To be honest, it has not come out of the consultation in recent years either. That does not affect the importance of the subject, but I have abandoned it in preparing this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u105	Finally, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u106	I can well imagine the latter, because we only recently found out from research what the impact of healthcare insurers' investments in the pharmaceutical industry is. So we only recently found out that that directly affects the insured person himself. I am concerned that we should also be able to increase the pressure from the inside towards the health insurance companies. And that we say, "Dear health insurance, you have now signed this beautiful covenant, but I do not see much of it in practice." Or: I see there's an Access to Medicine Index and there's an investor scheme, but you still haven't signed it. I am concerned that the signal that the insured can send is very powerful: I have chosen for you, but I expect something in return, even when it comes to the investment policy that directly affects me when it comes to drug prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u107	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u108	I see that point very well. I have argued why I do not think that should be enshrined in this bill. In my introduction, I have already said that the legislative proposal is a lower limit for all insurers. If an insurer wants this subject, the investment policy, to be part of a form of participation, then of course that space is there. But I'm not gonna make it through the law. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u109	Right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered Mrs Ellemeet's questions and have also responded to one amendment. Mr. Chairman. I come now to the comments made by Mrs Dik-Faber. The first point was, in fact, directly about the amendment to item No. 15. I need to look for...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u111	About more participation in reserves, supply and recruitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u112	Right. In particular, the issue of the use of non-legislative reserves is the reason why I reject this amendment. So the amendment in part No. 15 I do not recommend, actually a little by analogy with what I have just said to Mrs Ellemeet. We have had a consultation round, from which a few main themes have emerged. A theme such as the non-legislative reserves is another theme that is far removed from the quality of care and services. So I do not see it as a good element to prescribe and add to this bill. That is the main reason why I am voting in favour of this amendment. 15 detachment. Other issues are also mentioned in the amendment, such as the provision of health insurance. Of that, I imagine you're letting it be part of your care purchasing policy. We've already taken care of that. The other element is the way in which the health insurance company recruits new insured persons. We haven't made a clear definition of what customer communication is about, but you could say that you can settle it underneath. With these two other elements I have less difficulty. I dissuade the amendment and I do not want to add it to the law, but if the insured people speak with the insurer, I think that the second and third points can be caught under the broader terms 'care procurement policy' and 'customer communication policy'. So my hook is at the one point of the reserves not prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u113	But since the exchange of arguments is always part of the legal history, this is a view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u114	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u115	I give the floor to Mrs Dikk on the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u116	The Minister is opposed to the first part of the amendment, whereby the insured persons are given a say in a financial and economic component. But will the Minister acknowledge that this is technically possible? He himself stated in the explanatory statement that this did not affect the principles which De Nederlandsche Bank set out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u117	I have stated that I am not in favour of it, so we could discuss it with De Nederlandsche Bank for a very long time. I acknowledge that you can include it in an arrangement. We are talking about a sort of lower limit in this bill, and I should like to leave it at that with regard to legislation. I think that perhaps more can be discussed through the representation of insured persons, but I really want to leave it at that. So that's a choice I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u118	That is a clear answer from the Minister. I do think there are possibilities, but it is a choice to take those opportunities or not. My second question concerns the final part of the law. The Minister says: I take these customer contacts very widely; for me this includes marketing, so the acquisition of new members. I would like to say to the Minister that I think that is two very different things. Your customer contact is really the contact with your insured people, with the members of the cooperative, while marketing, so acquiring new customers, is a whole process that is rigged every time at the end of the year and in which all kinds of presents are distributed that have nothing to do with care at all. We talk a lot about that in this room. So isn't it too easy to get that part under those customer contacts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u119	The concept we are talking about is "customer communication." I think it can be counted on that. If I were on such a membership council or insurance council, I would simply bring the subject of the presents under that heading. I might have a better example. If I were there as an individual insured person, I would say: I do not want that pen; I want a discount from you. Or: I think it's really bullshit that you sponsor that; give me a discount. I think that as an individual insured person you can just make a point of that. So I would not like to make that an additional category. I told you, we make a lower limit in the law. That's what we need to do in this participation scheme. C'est ça. The superior can be agreed among themselves. I suggest that you do not define too widely what can and cannot be found in the two concepts of "care procurement policy" and "customer communication policy."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u120	Fine, thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u121	That was the result of the amendment to item No. 15. Then I come to the second comment on the reflection of the insured population. Let's see. There was also...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u122	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 16 and a question from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u123	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u124	There was also a question from the CDA about diversity. You can do those two things at once, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u125	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u126	You do it one by one? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u127	I'm gonna do the best I can, Mr. Chairman. The amendment contained the word 'diversity'. The question from the CDA and Mr Veldman was: how can you best ensure that a variety of insured persons can influence such a representation of insured persons? I do not think that we should do that by taking a subset of insurers' files by fleas and from different categories of patients there. You have to do it through a résumé and a letter of motivation. I think that the motivation letter is particularly important. That is the best way to arrange that you have in your reflection a variety of insured people: sick and healthy, young and old, husband and wife. That is why I am very much in favour of the concept of 'diversity in composition'. I would like to see the amendment on item No. 16 to that point, because diversity in this case is not about cultural backgrounds, I think. It's really about insured people's influence. You want to see the insurance interests in the broadest sense of the word in such a representation of insured persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u128	The amendment has just been amended. It has received number 18 and the word "diversity" has been replaced by "diversity."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u129	In this way, I believe that both Mrs Dik and Mrs Van den Berg's questions have been answered, as have Mr Veldman's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u130	Can Mr Raemakers' question on youth also be taken into account in order to disrupt the situation in this area? Or are you going to do that separately? I'm a troublemaker today, as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mr. Raemakers didn't have that many questions. I think I'm gonna answer that separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u132	Fine, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u133	But first, Mrs Van den Berg, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u134	Yes, Mrs Van den Berg has a question for you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u135	I understand that with the adaptation of the word 'diversity' to 'diversity', the Minister gives Chamber to this amendment by the Christian Union. The word "dwelling" is also included. In particular, the CDA was concerned about longer, less and more use of care. That could be completely separate from the place of residence. I'd like to know from the Minister how he's gonna take this. Or are there in the law, among other things, the place of residence and all other points that we can cite as examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u136	I think the amendment tabled by Mrs Dik is a clear one. "Dwelling" has been added to that. If I understand correctly, the term 'diversity' is added. It is therefore a question of these two criteria and not of the criterion of 'use of care', because it becomes very vulnerable when you ask the insurer for such formation. We should not go on that path, because then we will get into a fight with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I don't feel like it. I actually expect that this diversity will be reflected in the CVs and motivation letters written by candidates who want to join such an insurance council. The law states that it must be a good reflection in order to reasonably represent the various interests of the insured person. This can therefore be assessed. In the motivation you could see the variety of residence, age, education and many other things. I imagine a healthy insured person says he's interested. That may be the insured Wout, who was staged tonight. Maybe he says, "I'm interested, I'm intrinsically motivated." But it may also be that a chronic patient says: "I have so many contacts with my health insurance provider that it makes me interested in sitting here. And I know that I am not there for myself, but for the common good."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u137	I almost get abdominal pain when I hear words like motivation letter and resume. We already have 2.5 million low-lettered people in this country alone. If they have to write a letter of motivation, I don't think we're gonna get that 2.5 million already. So I'd like to get a reflection from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u138	I believe that an insurer will make an effort to comply with that legal requirement in the legislative proposal: the proper reflection and reasonable representation of the various interests of the insured. Mrs Van den Berg knows very well that insurers are also working on low-lying people. I think that they will look for such a method here too that low-skilled people can participate in other ways and so you will see the diversity of insured persons in the representation of insured persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u139	The Minister mentions what has been formulated as a starting point in the law, but that is of course not yet a guarantee of success. I can imagine a great deal of motivation, and I can also imagine that someone who has a lot to do with his health insurance provider might have a stronger motivation to do something with that health insurance policy. At the same time, I might as well imagine that the person who is only in contact with his health insurance provider through his monthly payment and who is in the fortunate situation that he never really has anything and never has to go to a general practitioner or a specialist is very far away from his health insurance provider. In this sense, he does not incur care costs, but he still has an interest in how that health insurance company operates. What guarantee do we have to ensure that it really is an insured person's influence and not a patient's influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u140	Because that guarantee is incorporated into the law. It states that the various interests of the insured must reasonably be taken into account. That is the provision and it must be completed. Form free is then the way in which the insurer will fill that out. But it is so arranged that the various interests should reasonably be addressed. Mr. Chairman. I also think that the insurer has an interest in this. It is not in the interests of the health insurance company to weigh one group, only healthy, only young, only old, only people from Amsterdam or from Amstelveen. It is his interest to weigh them all and watch you organise in a good way that diversity in the composition of the representation of insured persons. Mr President, this is all due to Mrs Dik-Faber's second comment. I have therefore also expressed my view on the amended amendment to item No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u141	That's no. 18 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u142	The amendment in part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u143	That is now being distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u144	That amendment is therefore being distributed now, but there is also an amendment, which has not yet been tabled, on what has become called a hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u145	That has been tabled in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u146	It's been filed. Good. That amendment states: to organise a legal hook so that additional subjects can be identified at AMvB for participation or advisory rights. If we organise it in such a way that we use that hook when the evaluation gives rise to it, I am fine with that. So there's a sequence of things in there. We have a law and then an evaluation. If, on the basis of the evaluation after three years, we consider that it should be changed by means of an AMvB for participation or advisory rights, I think that is fine. Then I am happy to give this amendment judgment Chamber. There were a number of other questions from the Christian Union which I would like to answer. I start with the point that the health insurance provider should help the representation in consulting and informing insured persons. What can the representation count on? I think that in practice it is very soon about a communication channel as a website or being helpful by the insurer in sending surveys. But it may also be the case that the health insurance company helps in organizing meetings I am thinking of that kind of very practical thing. How can the representation properly assess whether the contribution of the insured person has been sufficient in the concept of purchasing policy? Isn't that up to the health insurance company? I think it's and-and. The representation wants to see what's been done with her work. It therefore wants an opinion on this matter. But the health insurance provider also has a duty to respond to what comes with the representation of insured persons. So I consider it emphatically and-and-and-and-so. Then Mrs Dik-Faber made a point of setting a fixed deadline for the right of advice on care procurement policy. Does the Minister see the possibility of linking a deadline to the request for advice by the health insurance provider and the delivery of advice by the representative? It is clear that the healthcare procurement policy should be adopted annually on 1 April. Legally, we have arranged it in such a way that the timing of the insurer must be such that the advice has a substantial impact on the care purchasing policy. If you knew that date of April 1st, I'd take ample time to do so. I think that's going to put it into practice. Maybe the first time one comes to the conclusion: we have been working very hard against that last day of March; so next year we have to start a little earlier, from rough to fine. But perhaps it is too early to say that you have to start on 1 October. So I didn't really want to put an extra deadline on that. The 1st of April has already been taken care of. That is the time-limit for the delivery of care procurement policies, which is a recurring one. The other provision that already applies is that there must be substantial influence. The advice should still have a substantial impact on care procurement policy. We therefore need to take ample time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u147	Is it not the Minister's fear that this will be developed so differently for different health insurers that the sphere of influence of one health insurance provider will be developed differently from that of the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u148	No, I'm not really afraid of that because my expectation is that the insurers will take this law very seriously. They also see that it is very appropriate at this time to take insured persons seriously and that the very subject of care procurement policy is the pièce de résistance for the representation of insured persons. So I think they take a lot of time for that. In practice, of course, there are all kinds of members' councils that have already organized all kinds of practices, but if it has not already been organised and if it is the first time an insurer has had this conversation, I think it will take a lot of time. The first discussion will then take place on the question of how to organise it a little more practically. So I think it goes from form to content and it goes in small steps. I also think that practice will show that after 1 April it will be evaluated in the house, at that insurer, between the insurer and the representation of insured persons. On that basis they might say: okay, this year we started in September; next year we will do better to start only mid-November. By the way, it is a subject that we can involve in the evaluation. But I honestly don't expect anything at all... I'm not worried about this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u149	I'm glad to hear the Minister has nothing to worry about. I wish I could say that with him. That is not the case, because I hear from working practice that the members' councils are really working so differently at the moment, and that there are very few health insurance companies, perhaps only one........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, let this be a point that will also come back to the evaluation in three years' time. Let us hope, then, that the Minister was right in this case. But as I said, when I see how Members' Councils work at the moment and how involved they are, I hope that this bill will really push in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u150	These are real words. I think members of the Members' Council have a great deal of passion for the work they do. With this bill there is a little formality that makes these insurers really take this role seriously. I'm confident they will. Everyone here wants to be the best boy in the class. Mr. Chairman. I have two other questions from Mrs Dik-Faber. The first is whether the Minister is prepared to look again at alternative options for dispute resolution. I say in the direction of Mrs Dik-Faber but also in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg that I do not think it is wise to add an additional step, an additional dispute body, anyone and whatever. It only prolongs the procedure, because after that, the corridor to the bourgeois court is always open. In fact, I think that, in addition to the point we exchanged earlier in the debate with Mrs Ellemeet on the role of the SVC, we should not organise anything else. Let's keep it really clear and not insert all kinds of paper links. That is my view now. Here too, if the evaluation teaches us differently, we will have to change the beacons. Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's question as to whether the Council of Members and the representation of insured persons can be co-existed and how to avoid a mix of roles. This refers to the point that some insurers already have a membership council. It has a much broader sense of task. I think that these Members' Councils will look at this bill with the question: will we tackle this task or will we organise a separate body for it? If it becomes a separate gremium, a separate representation of insured persons for this purpose, I think they will be cut off from the work of the Members' Councils. There will therefore be no mixing of roles; both roles, both those of the Council of Members and those of the representatives of insured persons, should be given a place and both should be formally organised. I don't know exactly how that works in practice. It is very interesting to see how this will work in practice, but I think that the individual insurers are all in a position to see if the existing membership council will take it. If they don't, they're gonna turn it into something special. So, in my opinion, it cannot be a blurry situation. Mr. Chairman. So much for the questions put by Mrs Dik-Faber. Then I come to Mr Hijink's questions. In his speech, he always asked to talk not only about the bill, but about the whole healthcare system in the Netherlands. It's always gonna take a little more words, but okay. The questions of the SP. Why is cross-border competition between insurers so important in the healthcare system? I think other parts of our healthcare system are even more important, but Mr Hijink is well aware that foreign health insurance companies are free to operate on the Dutch market. And that's what happens in practice. I do not object to this at all, because it can keep the parties sharp when it comes to quality, affordability and accessibility. So we have cross-border competition and we just keep it as far as I'm concerned. Then the effect of the bill. Are the conditions of this law really so harsh that participation really gets better or doesn't anything change? Well, I have written down here all the elements that are added, both for the individual insured and for the organisation of the representation of insured persons, as well as the powers of that representation. I really think that this benefits the participation of insured persons in insurers. I think that something is changing, that it is becoming stronger and more powerful. We are talking about a lower limit and I think that individual insurers can go even further than what is laid down in the law. So I do expect a positive effect of the bill. Can the Minister require insurers to provide as much information as possible on turnover ceilings? I would like to reply that at least we have already started, because insurance companies are already obliged under the Market Organisation Health Act to disclose information on turnover ceilings. Just this year, the NZa has further developed that legal obligation in a scheme, which has also entered into force. This scheme also includes the obligation for insurers to disclose information on turnover ceilings. So we have already taken a step there. And if you want to know as an individual insured person whether the turnover ceiling has already been reached, it might be that Mr. Hijink saw it on that. I think you should contact your health insurance provider. That's the most practical way. So this is different for everyone. Mr President, this is about the obligation to provide information. Then there is the supervision by the General Court of Auditors. That was also an amendment,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u151	On No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u152	That's right, the amendment to item No. 10. Can the General Court monitor the expenditure of health insurers? The answer is that the health insurance companies are consciously excluded from the supervision by the General Court when establishing the Health Insurance Act because health insurance companies are private-law organisations that have to have room to compete on purchasing. That was the position at the time, and that doesn't really change anything. So this supervisory role cannot be shifted, because that is how we organised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u153	That is why you are rejecting the amendment to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u154	I advise no. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u155	I always think that is the worst argument that you can use as a minister: we cannot change this, because that is how we arranged it. Yeah, that's how it's arranged is, of course, the reason I'm proposing a change. What would be the problem if we asked the General Court to look into the effectiveness of the use of resources for health insurers? I do not see the objection. On the Court's website the health insurance companies are also mentioned as one of the types of organisations with a legal role, so nothing really stands in the way of just doing that. Maybe it turns out it's all been for nothing and there's nothing interesting to read. Well, then we don't do it after that. But what's against doing it for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u156	Because we've arranged it differently. They are private-law organisations that need to have room to compete on their purchases. So that role was not invested in the Court of Auditors. The NZa supervises the lawful implementation of the Health Insurance Act by health insurers, including the obligation to provide care. That's how we arranged it. I don't feel like shaking that card box again. I don't feel like it. And that was the question. I am not in favour of it, and that is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u157	Mr Hijink has not yet given himself up. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u158	The health insurance companies spend around 50 billion euros on public money, money generated by taxes and premiums. The Court of Auditors, in particular, has been set up to monitor organisations with legal functions when they are largely or partly financed by public money. But for one of the largest parts of what we pay together with our public money, we do not want to know that through the Health Insurance Act, while here again every week questions are asked about what health insurance companies are doing with our money and whether it is being used effectively. Can we not, as a Chamber, get some insight into how that works and whether they handle that money in a good way? I think the Minister should simply argue in substance why it is not a good idea. He can't take this off with "that's how we set it up."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u159	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u160	I just want a substantive basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u161	I have said that it is private-law organisations that are competing. They must be free to compete, because that is the basis for their procurement. Purchasing is important for their duty of care. That's what the NZa oversees. So I'm making a completely different argument. It's not a comment. No, I am making another argument, which starts with the private-law role of health insurers, who must have the freedom to compete, who buy care and who have a duty of care that is supervised by the NZa. That's a completely different line of reasoning. This is not the case with the Court of Auditors as a supervisory body, but with the NZa. That's how we arranged it. I do not feel the urge to organise this in a different way, because I think it is very good that the NZa supervises the care obligations of health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink said that the bill does not regulate the influence of healthcare providers on the policies of health insurers. Mr Hijink wondered whether small healthcare providers in particular should not sign too often on the cross. Mr Hijink said that perhaps it is mainly the small healthcare providers who have to sign off on the cross too often. I agree with Mr Hijink that the process of contracting should receive attention, not only for the large suppliers but also for the small suppliers. That is why we have made agreements in the main lines of the ggz, in the district care and in the paramedical sector, where incredibly many small suppliers work, to make improvements. In the paramedical sector, we have made the most recent agreements to look at the methods of financing and contracting by health insurance companies. We do not have to settle this issue through this law, but it is an important point that the sound of the individual small provider is also well heard in the contract by the health insurance company. I do not rule out the fact that there will still be a similar e-mail in the coming years, but the method of contracting is the subject of discussion through the main line agreements in the paramedical sector, among others. The last question I noted from Mr Hijink was very similar to the first: are people waiting for this legal participation? I think this bill is a step forward. Wouldn't people rather have a public system? I don't think so at all. I think that the task we have with each other is, I mean, the Chamber and this minister is always looking at what public guarantees you have to determine in order for those private parties to function properly with each other and with the government. We are very busy with that, because that is never really finished, there is always a need for further development and we are constantly talking about it, even this evening. Mr. Chairman. So much for Mr Hijink's remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u164	There are two amendments, one on consent and one on information. Did you also immediately give an appreciation to the explanatory statement that you started with? That wasn't explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u165	I have to do that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u166	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u167	Let's find out which ones they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u168	Those are the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u169	We have had the Court of Auditors. The amendment in part No. 12 is about extending the right of consent. That's not what I'm here for. I think the driver should drive. I think that by organizing the right of assent, the insured person's representation is far too much on the driver's seat, so I would advise against the amendment in part No. 12. The amendment in part No. 13 extends the information obligation of the health insurance companies in Article 40 of the WMG with information on the care procurement process, waiting lists and fees. That's right, isn't it? Do I have the right amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u170	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u171	As far as I am concerned, this should not be regulated by law. These issues have already been settled through an NZa's own regulation. I find that practical, because that makes it much more flexible. I do not have the urge here to settle this by means of a legal obligation. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 13. Then I go to the VVD's comment on the insured person's influence. Is it balanced? Is there broad support? I have already said that the insured person's participation is for all insured persons, whether they are sick or healthy, young or old. I think that the health insurance company and the representation are very well placed to deal with this together. I believe that the basic provision to ensure that the various interests of the insured are properly reflected provides sufficient ground to organise, with a stack of CVs and motivation letters, that this diversity is safeguarded. In addition, of course, I have not yet mentioned that the vacancies for representation are public and that anyone from 18 years of age can respond to them. Mr President, so far. I would like to make a few comments about Mrs van den Berg of the CDA. Can the CDA assume that the law will be reviewed after three years? Yes, that's the case. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u172	There is a question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u173	That is what we had read in the explanatory statement. However, we were concerned not only with assessing the law, but also, in particular, with taking into account the method of participation we have chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u174	As far as I am concerned, it is really about the two forms of participation that we are organising with this legislative proposal, that is to say the individual insured person and the representation of insured persons. They both have roles, they both are incorporated into the law, and they both need to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u175	I just mentioned all our concerns about the lowly. So this evaluation also takes into account the diversity, as the Minister calls it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u176	Yeah, I think that's very important. I will come to the motion of the CDA later, but if the provision in the law states that there must be a proper reflection in order to reasonably defend the various interests of the insured, then we must also check whether they are met. That seems obvious to me. Then it was asked why the term "care use" was not included in this bill. We have done this from the point of view of privacy, as I believe I have argued before tonight. Insurers should not start selecting on the basis of medical personal data. I don't think that's convenient. This also results in resentment at the AP, so let's do it via the more described route of resumes and motivation letters. What is the distinction between an insured person's representation and an interest organisation? With the insured people everyone is meant with emphasis, sick and healthy; I say it a bit domestic. Interest groups are often patient organisations. So what is the distinction between an insured person's representation and an interest organisation? The insured person's representation concerns all insured persons and the interest organisation is often a subset of insured persons. As we have written in this bill, we are looking here for that broad circle of insured persons. Then there was a question of how to reconnect. The representation of insured persons consults and informs its members. How's that going? Well, I think that often goes through a website, through surveys or through meetings. Then what's her constituency? As far as I'm concerned, that's all the insured persons in that health insurance company. To be honest, that seems obvious. You're doing it as an insured person with that insurance company. Thus, the supporters are the insured persons of that one insurer, not the whole of the Netherlands or so. Then there's the dispute settlement. I think I've said enough about that. Then I come to the question of whether the Insurance Board can give advice on the contracting of healthcare providers and the way in which they do so. Mrs van den Berg's speech referred to the unequal negotiating position of individual paramedics. She asked whether the Insurance Board could also give advice on how to contract healthcare providers. What can be done is that care procurement policy is being discussed, because that is also what we have written down in the law. What is not possible is an individual advice about an individual healthcare provider in the sense of: healthcare provider, physiotherapist Jansen, you have to do this or do that. That's not what that insurance board is for. So it's specifically about the care purchasing policy. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u177	For example, can advice be given on how to deal generally with a group of paramedics, such as dieticians, or how to contract them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u178	That seems to me to be true, because that is what I think is part of the policy. It's not a one-on-one customer supplier relationship. I think Mrs Van den Berg agrees with me. But I think you should be able to explain the policy properly. So the point of drawing the cross comes through the route of the care purchase policy certainly on the sign at the insurance representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u179	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mrs Van den Berg had tabled a motion on the practical implementation test. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u181	No, we're only in the first term, Minister, so perhaps we will, unless you answer her question so thoroughly that the motion becomes superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u182	I'm getting more spiritual as the evening progresses, Mr. Chairman. But you shouldn't let that come to that. But can I hear the question again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yes, you may hear the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u184	I may have threatened. I did mention the word "motion" in my input when I said: laws without effect are worthless. So if there's only going to be procedural testing by the NZa, then you might as well not make a law. I quoted President Lincoln there: if you don't force a law, it's just a good advice. I'd like to have a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u185	I thought I had answered this question, because Mrs van den Berg's speech concerned the composition of the representation: is it representative? That is what Mrs van den Berg said. I said: let the NZa not only look at the statutes, but let them also, in practice, check whether this representativeness is being met, for example by requesting meeting reports. I'm not Lincoln, but I like a little bit of "let's keep it simple." It's just as good on a tile as it is on a tile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u186	I think it is a good idea to look at representativeness, for example by allowing me to receive a report. I like to test it that way, but I also hope that the quality of the meeting will be taken into account. Just now golden cups passed by and earlier the closet roles were mentioned as a subject of debate, but I hope the NZa will also look at serious issues that really concern care procurement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u187	The NZa doesn't have that part. I also find it very difficult to instruct the NZa: look if the representation of insured persons is doing its job seriously. However, I believe that this is an issue that we can involve together for insurers in this evaluation. But I don't like to say in general, "is this working out a little nice with your insurance company?" and to give the NZa a supervisory role on the quality of the representation of insured persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u188	The evaluation is after three years. Then we would like to know the following. If such an insurance council in between thinks "this conversation doesn't go far enough," where can one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u189	They will then have to hold the interview internally and then with the Management Board. If they do not come out afterwards, I would in practice opt for a good discussion with the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board. If they do not want to do so, the hallway to the bourgeois court is still open. Why there? Because both the insurer and the representation of insured persons are in the core private law bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u190	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u191	I've heard the Minister's answer. I'm gonna take another look at that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u192	She's hanging over the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u193	Good! I hope that I have answered the questions of the CDA Group sufficiently. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of D66. I have answered all the other questions, but I have not yet answered the question as to whether you can involve young people even more than is planned in this bill. In the bill we made the exit that an 18-year-old will for the first time insure himself independently. Until then, I'm gonna say it a little homely. He's gonna ride on his parents' policy. I think the interest will grow if you are insured yourself and have to make your own decision. So what can be done anyway is that young people give their opinion on the 18-minners via the route of the individual insured persons, so their insured persons give their opinion and express their wishes. It's open to everyone. The representation on the Insurance Board is open to people from the age of 18 years. That's how we organized it. I'm quite willing to discuss on top of that with insurers whether they can't do anything extra for 18-miners. But I didn't want to settle it through this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u194	I didn't mean to put it in the bill. That is why I did not come up with an amendment. But I'd like to... It is also often about young people who have problems in several areas. So they have a chronic condition, but then they also run into problems in high school. Maybe they are also dealing with youth care or a side job where they have problems, or they have a particular disease that prevents them from taking a side job like other young people. You can see that these young people also very much want to have a say. You can also see examples of this in practice. So can the Minister promise that he will look a little more broadly, including with health insurers, if anything can be arranged for the group of chronically ill young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u195	I heard Mr Raemakers' reasoning in his speech in the first term. He also started with the patient and said: that could also be a younger one. In this respect, there is a certain tension with the purpose of this bill, because it focuses precisely on "the insured." The group that Mr Raemakers has just described in the interruption is precisely the group of young people with a form of disability or with a chronic illness. I find that clumsy and out of line with this bill. If, quite apart from the legislative proposal, there is sometimes a group of young people who would like to speak with an insurer, there is, of course, room for that. When that space is not there, if a group of young people wants to address something to a certain insurer or to the insurers, but they don't get through it, then I'd like to be your liaison. I'd like to make sure that something like this is organized. But I find it complicated to organize that about the band of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u196	I understand that, but it's more than just talking along. It is also sometimes the case that these young people get into trouble, because the health insurance provider does not give up their specific situation at home and says: we do not compensate for that. I think that's an element that we need to look closely at. So I would really like to call on the Minister to include this point in the discussions with health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u197	That is completely separate from this proposal, because, as far as I am concerned, it is completely separate from it, with the exception of one point. If a chronic patient, including a younger one, wishes to express an opinion or wish, he is free to make use of it at all times. That is also laid down in the new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u198	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u199	Mr. Chairman. I have now answered all the questions, except those raised by Mr Mulder. The issue of representativeness has now been discussed in detail. Mr Mulder's other question was whether there is already a manual on VWS for representation, so that everything does not have to be reinvented. I was not sure whether Mr Mulder made this remark with a slight twinkling in his eyes or whether it was a serious remark, but the real answer is that that manual is not ready. I do think that we can draw lessons from the evaluation in three years' time, which will be a useful tool for all insurers and thus for all representatives of insured persons to improve the working methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u200	I had noted the question as being a concern about bureaucracy. You're talking about a whirlwind, but the MP has asked for concerns about bureaucracy. I think that's what you meant, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u201	There's always a kink if I'm allowed to stand here, Mr. Chairman. Yes, it was about bureaucracy, but the underlying question was that if people have to come along and decide on procurement policy, they have to have some knowledge of it. How does the Minister feel about all those people who are going to be elected? Is that something from VWS? Is that something from the health insurance company itself? Or do people have to do it themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u202	No, that's what the bill provides for. The representation should be able to use the facilities that it reasonably needs to carry out its work. That's noted. And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, there is provision for reimbursement of costs that are reasonably necessary for carrying out those tasks, in terms of training, independent support or the conduct of legal proceedings. A game is available from the health insurance companies for this purpose. Before the debate, we have just verified whether this is not the case in practice. In fact, most health insurance companies with whom we are in contact have already organised all this. So this is not done from VWS, but that lies with the health insurance provider and that is provided for in the scheme. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u203	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your first-term response. I look at the members to see if they need a second term. That's the case. Would you like it right away? You don't need a suspension? Fine. Then we'll get right on it. I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It doesn't happen very often that I feel a certain frustration in this business, but I do now, to be honest. Because I simply cannot agree with the Minister's remark that the participation of insured persons in the investment policy of health insurance companies would not fit in with the law. Look at the title of the law change. It says literally "Amendment of the Health Insurance Act to strengthen the influence of insured persons on the health insurance provider." As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is room for this important issue to be included in this law. Maybe you should sometimes conclude that I don't mean faint, but really seriously that you're running for the troops. I am convinced that the outside world is farther than we are in this Chamber. The outside world sees the impact of investments on health, and what it means is that health insurers invest in the pharmaceutical industry without actually using their influence and power to make firm agreements with those pharmaceuticals about pharmaceutical prices and not avoiding taxes. These are matters that concern us, which concern insured people and which directly affect them, because it means that pharmaceutical prices are being increased further. In essence, I think it fits very well with this bill, so I'm disappointed. I will have to look at another moment, hopefully, that will come in the coming period of time, in which we can still see what we can do with this. Although I am very pleased that the Minister is speaking, that alone is not enough. It's very important, but it's just not enough. We see that the health insurance companies are not making enough work of it. There are agreements signed, some things are not drawn and they get away with it, because no one is on their skin. It's just crazy to think that this whole Chamber is worried about the pharmaceutical industry and we're all taking it seriously, but at the back, when it comes to investing in that pharmaceutical industry, we leave the door open for that kind of use. I find that incredibly unsatisfactory. I can't say otherwise, Mr. Chairman. So, amen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u205	That's what I like to hear. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions and for being positive about two of the three amendments. At the same time, I am sorry that the third amendment has not received a positive assessment from the Minister. This concerns the influence of the insured person and the involvement of the insured person in financial and economic policy. It is quite important financially, as the insured people, all of us together, invest EUR 23 billion, half of the healthcare insurers' budget. I listened carefully and found the Minister's reaction uncomfortable and unsatisfactory. I'm gonna sleep on it one more night to figure out what I'm gonna do with the amendment. For now, on the basis of the debate, I would like to table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research has shown that the transparency of the current membership and insurance councils is inadequate and that there is little communication with the insured persons;]] [[noting that the insured person's representation has a duty to regularly identify the wishes and opinions of the insured person concerned and to inform them of its work and its results;]] [[Whereas it is important that people who often need care are properly involved;]] [[invites the Government, together with the health insurers, to provide assistance to the insured person's representation on the consultation and information of insured persons, and to indicate the support that the representative can expect from the health insurance provider,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34971-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u207	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Insurance Act is being reviewed three years after its entry into force;]] [[invites the Government to involve at least the following points in the evaluation:]] [[the way in which disputes between the insured person's representation and the health insurer are settled outside the courts;]] [[the design of multi-level insurance representation (group and health insurers),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34971-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. In any case, let me finish this evening in a positive way. We've had a lot of debates. There has been a long process ahead of this bill. There were a number of motions from the Christian Union Group and the result is that there is now a law that strengthens the influence of insured persons when it comes to buying care, which is so important to them. That's something we can all be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Hijink from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that I am somewhat less optimistic than Mrs Dik-Faber. Frankly, that is also because I am rather disappointed in the Minister's response to the proposals made by the Chamber. That is, of course, about my own proposals, but well, they were perhaps a bit sharper on the wind than some of the other proposals. I also think that when it comes to Mrs Ellemeet's proposal, but even when it comes to proposals from the coalition for minor adjustments to increase the participation and control of insured persons. I am the same because of this Minister's firm attitude, which holds on to the letters on his paper at all costs, and I think that this proposal and this important subject should have been given a little more flexibility by the Minister. I do not think that is a good thing. I think the Minister could have admitted a little more. I can understand why he doesn't embrace all of the SP's proposals. But I also mention, for example, the general Court's plan, which was almost a majority last time. What can be against using one of the most important auditors we, as a society, as a government, on the legality and effectiveness of funds raised with public money, almost 50 billion? I don't see what's wrong with putting that medicine in for once. In this respect, I am not very happy with the course of this debate. I fear that we will eventually vote in favour of the law, because it is difficult to oppose it, but it is difficult to say that this law has really brought about a change that we are excited about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you. Mrs Van den Berg with the dreaded motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u212	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for the answers. I wrote down two big-letter points. One point is contracting. How is it contracted with the entire group of physiotherapists, with the group of dietists or logopedists? This can also be part of the healthcare procurement policy on which the Board can provide advice. The second point I made specifically. We are concerned about whether the diversity will be sufficiently secured. We just talked about the use of care and the people who are low-literate. Do you have sufficient diversity in differences in socio-economic status, in differences between people with and without chronic diseases? We shall certainly look into that. I am pleased to hear that the Minister intends to include this in the evaluation. We have threatened a motion, and I would like to table that motion, partly on behalf of Mr. Veldman of the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the role of the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) in enforcing the Amendment to the Health Insurance Act in order to strengthen the influence of insured persons on the health insurance provider is limited to carrying out a formal test;]] [[Whereas the NZa checks whether the insured person's participation is guaranteed by law and not whether the final composition of the actual representation is representative;]] [[considers that this is not sufficient to effectively assess the functioning of this law and the participation of insured persons;]] [[invites the Government to consult with the NSA as soon as possible on the possibilities of carrying out a practical implementation test in addition to a statutory review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34971-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr. Raemakers didn't. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I owe you and the Chamber another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u215	That's how we can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u216	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers may indirectly restrict the right to care when purchasing care;]] [[considers that transparency in care procurement policy is essential and that agreements should be public and verifiable;]] [[calls on the Government to make public all conditions in the care purchase process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34971-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you. Four motions from the side of the Chamber. I will give the Minister three minutes to prepare the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u219	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr President, there are four motions on which I would like to express my opinion. In addition, there are two further comments to be made. One comment concerns Mrs Ellemeet, who spoke with some passion about the investment policy of insurers. Honestly, I can feel that passion, but I don't think it fits this bill. So it's a bit of a formalistic argument. But it does not affect the importance of the point, because I believe that good medicines should be delivered in the Netherlands at a reasonable price. I will continue to fight your Chamber for the transparency of medicine prices. We haven't had one issue yet, or the other is already lurking. It's the complicated balance between a drug that's available, even though it's somewhere in the world, and we're dying to bring it to that Dutch patient who needs it, and the costs. We're far from getting out of that path. On that point, Mrs Ellemeet concluded by saying that she would continue to look for ways of addressing that point. I'm very interested in that. I do that too, in the Netherlands and abroad. There's a whole series of applications attached to it. Then I come to the other comment I wanted to make. Mr Hijink said that the Minister could be a little more flexible. Maybe I didn't put it well enough that I submitted a bill to your Chamber that would be a sort of minimum limit. I think that the insured person's influence is well served, also depending on the context of an insurer. One insurer isn't the other. What we have arranged are a number of minimum agreements. We will evaluate these minimum arrangements, but before that assessment takes place in three years' time, there is much more scope for discussing, in consultation between the insurer and the circle of insured persons, a number of other themes that go beyond care procurement policy and customer communication. That's what I want to say. I don't mean to be obstinate. On the contrary. It's my intention to keep some air here. By law, I want to regulate what came out of the consultation as the most important subjects, in line with what has been expressed in the motions of the past period and with what is contained in the coalition agreement. But again, it's a lower limit. There's a lot more to go on. If insurers and the circle of insured people make an agreement on this, then that space is there. To be honest, I expect that to happen. You will see that there are great differences between one insurer and the other. Mr. Chairman. I have four comments to make on the four motions. In the motion in part No. 19 is requested to make a hand-out. If you want to keep it a little light, then you're not so into making a hand-out, or maybe after the evaluation. I have no objections in principle to that, but I am not going to make a very large book either. I do it together with the health insurance companies to the satisfaction of the insured person's representation. So if that's what your room wants, I can do some kind of hand-picking for that. I have no objection in principle to that, so I shall leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 19 to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 20 covers a number of themes which are requested to be included in the evaluation. I think that's fine. So, judge Chamber for the motion in part No. 20. In the motion in part No. 21 calls for a rapid consultation with the NZa on the possibilities of carrying out, in addition to a statutory review, a practical implementation test. Here I was a little careful now. The motion calls for just a little more. I would like to discuss with the NZa what possibilities there are to look at the content of the participation a little more, but that must of course fit within the powers of the NZa. As far as I'm concerned, I'm giving this motion the verdict Chamber. And so I go in consultation with the NZa. I'm gonna do what's in the motion. Then there is the Edgar Mulder motion in part No. 22. It calls on the government to make all conditions public at the time of the care purchase. My eye chops up: all the conditions at the care purchase. In the end, care procurement policy is a document that becomes known. That is the document which is due to be ready on 1 April each year. That's not a joke; it's really true. It should be ready by April 1st. So if that is to be public, if you are interested, then I think it is available. If you are concerned with all the conditions of the care purchase and therefore all the agreements made between an insurer on the one hand and an individual healthcare provider on the other hand, then that is a private-law agreement. That's contracting. Those appointments will not be made public. I can't force it, and I don't want to force it. That's something that contracting parties agree on. When contracting parties put that on the web, they have to decide for themselves, but the odds are very small that they do. So because I don't know exactly how to interpret this motion, and because it says "all conditions at the care purchase," where the word "policy" is not mentioned and so it could also be seen on any contract, I advise this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u221	I saw that Mr Mulder indicated that the second explanation is the one he means. So you have already given your own answer. Then you'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u222	Yes. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u223	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-8.u224	The votes on these motions and amendments will be on Tuesday. That concludes today's sitting.
