ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the Turkish invasion of Syria. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence. I see Mr Van Helvert standing for an order proposal, I suppose. No motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u2	No, not yet, Madam President. Thank you for allowing me to make an order proposal on behalf of a number of colleagues; I am afraid to say who all of them, but there are a lot of them. I would ask you to extend speaking time per person by one minute to five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u3	I know from experience that such proposals are never contradicted. So I guess everyone agrees. Five minutes' speaking time. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing we're talking to each other again in the short term, but the reason is, of course, terrible. The Kurdish politician Hervin Khalaf was dragged out of her car and murdered by Islamic militias who, together with the Turkish groups, are fighting the Syrian Democratic Forces in northern Syria. Her death may be the most obvious atrocity we have seen so far from the Turkish attack, but there are many more victims, at least dozens, possibly hundreds. Moreover, another 160,000 people have been displaced. UNICEF estimates there are about 70,000 of them children. Mr. Chairman. These are the consequences of the irresponsible and unjust action of NATO member Turkey. Irresponsible, given the great humanitarian suffering caused by it. It is also irresponsible because the main ally in the fight against ISIS is being attacked, which actually stops the fight against ISIS and already manages to escape prisoners. One irresponsible and unjust because there is no attack on Turkey from Northern Syria by the SDF or even by the YPG. So there is no question of self-defense. This is therefore a serious violation of international law. Another result of the Turkish attack is that the SDF know themselves betrayed by the West and then turn to Assad out of despair. Mr. Chairman. I come to the following questions. What if Turkey and Syria are about to face each other directly? What if Syria attacks the Turks? Are we then obliged, I ask the cabinet, to help Turkey as a NATO ally? Article 5 points out that. We shouldn't end up in a situation like this. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister. I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. It is good that arms supplies from the European Union to Turkey are actually stopped, but the question is, of course, the following: we could not get that out of the EU-RBZ Council statement. Everyone's in now? And what are they doing, a full arms embargo on Turkey or a partial embargo on only those weapons that can be used against Syria? Let us be clear on that point. There should actually be an arms embargo as wide as possible in the EU. Does the Minister agree with me that it should go that way? Mr. Chairman. At least 160,000 people have already drifted; I already mentioned it. These people need help immediately, in the area itself, but when they cross the border, they also need help in Iraq. Is the Minister prepared to lend the help? Is the cabinet prepared to make funds available for this? Mr. Chairman. Turkey plays an ambiguous role in relation to ISIS. We know the AIVD report that says Turkey has given ISIS the opportunity to regroup. Now the Turks are effectively putting an end to the fight against ISIS. In fact, captured ISIS fighters are now on the loose and are once again a threat. That is why the following questions to the cabinet. What will the cabinet do with the EU to prevent the captured ISIS fighters from being released and returning to battle or travelling uncontrolledly to Europe, and thus to the Netherlands? What happens if the camps of ISIS fighters come under Turkey's control and are then handed them over to the Netherlands? Hundreds of women have already broken out, with their children. The Minister states in his letter that these are not Dutch mothers. Where are the Dutch mothers? What are the chances of uncontrolled release? What answers does the cabinet now have to this new situation? Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: the Christian Union is and remains in favour of the local trial of those ISIS fighters, preferably through a tribunal, without the death penalty. They have committed the crimes there and must also be tried there. Finally. Does the government now know whether goods supplied by the Netherlands, such as pick-up trucks, are being used by the so-called moderate militias fighting with the Turkish side in the fight against the Kurds? If not, can the cabinet figure this out? For it would be very harsh and very acidic in the direction of the Kurds if we had provided material, although not weapons, but material that could be used against the most loyal and effective ally in the fight against ISIS. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are with the Kurds with our heads and our hearts, the people who have suffered so much in history and the people who are suffering so much at the moment. The people who have fought for us, among other things, against the barbarians of Islamic State and the people who are now getting a knife in the back of what in the name of our NATO ally should be. Turkey has recently started an illegal war. A very reprehensible war. A war with already a great deal of suffering: thousands of people are on the run, hundreds of dead have already been reported. I remember sitting on the couch as a little girl at home and watching the channel CNN, a black screen where you occasionally saw a green light light. That was a bomb; the bombings were started. For the first time the world witnessed the start of a war live, you could watch on television. It's been almost 30 years now, but I remember that feeling of powerlessness that you're watching a TV screen, as a little girl on the couch, knowing that bombs fall there in an area where little girls are sitting at home on the couch. Part of that powerless feeling struck me again, last week, when the first reports came in about Turkey's completely illegal and unjust invasion of Northeast Syria. That Turkish war is illegal because it is directly contrary to everything we have agreed within the United Nations but also within NATO. That is why we have great concerns. Great concern, especially about the Kurdish people and their well-being. I am therefore curious to hear from the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to discuss with the Kurds what they need now, what we can now help them with, what we can help them with. Our concern is also with the IS fighters who have been captured, because the illegal Turkish invasion also disrupts the fight against Islamic State. What is true of the reports that the captured IS fighters are being surrendered to the Turks? Can the Prime Minister clarify exactly what that is about? What's his information on that? Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, a number of things have to be done, I think three things. One: the weapons. How is it possible, I ask the Prime Minister, that weapons have been delivered to Turkey for so long? Not just us, but several parties in this Chamber, but at least we have already argued six times in favour of an arms embargo against Turkey. If you think about the idea that it might be possible that even Dutch stuff, with Dutch support, is being fought on the wrong side at the moment, that you might be watching footage on CNN right now and see a truck passing by sponsored by the Netherlands, that is in everything... The word "wrang" just fell, but that is far too soft to put it in my mind. It is unjust, insufferable but above all unacceptable. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he can guarantee tonight that we will not ever, at a later date, be back in this Chamber and face each other and ask each other the question: how has it happened that at this time our allies fighting against Islamic State are being attacked with Dutch material? Can he guarantee that that won't happen tonight? As far as we are concerned, this arms embargo should not be a request, a half-hearted request from the European Union. That must be a clear arms embargo, a complete arms embargo. No more guns to Turkey, period. The other thing that needs to be done as far as we are concerned is sanctions, firm sanctions in all possible areas: diplomatic, personal, economic, financial, you name it. I would therefore like to hear from the Prime Minister exactly what was done in this area last Monday, specifically in the area of sanctions, and why so little has come of it. That wasn't clear to me from the letter either. Why is the European Union and perhaps is the Netherlands... I would also like to have that debate tonight. We should not just act in the European Union. Of course it is more powerful, of course it is better. Wherever we can, we must do so, but that does not relieve us as the Netherlands of the duty to act on our own. Finally, NATO. Can the Prime Minister explain what a country like Turkey is still doing within NATO at the moment? How is it possible for a so-called NATO ally to start a completely illegal war? What does that mean for us and our view of NATO? Mr. Chairman. I realise very well that if we adopt a motion in this Chamber this evening, which will really not mean that Erdogan will withdraw his troops or turn his tanks around. But we can do so much more than we do now. That's so frustrating. That makes it so unacceptable. That makes it so unfair. We can do so much more than we are doing right now to stop the dirty war that Erdogan is waging on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Let me now give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u8	...Mr. De Roon. I should perhaps have said at the outset to the people in the public gallery, whom I welcome, that it is absolutely not allowed to express your approval or disapproval in any way whatsoever. I understand very well that it is an emotional debate, but above all you try to hold back, and no applause. Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u9	Mr. Chairman. The PVV alerted him. Him, the Prime Minister of our country, the leader of the VVD. We warned him not to get involved with that president of Turkey. We told him years ago that Erdogan is totally unreliable, that sooner or later he is going to take us hostage by threatening to open the borders wide open when it suits him. We told him, the Prime Minister, not to pay billions of euros to the Turkish state terrorist and Islamist, but to close our own borders to migrants and terrorists instead of trusting that Erdogan. But the Prime Minister didn't listen, he deliberately beat all the warnings in the wind and went into business with that man. Even after Erdogan called the Dutch fascists and our country a remnant of Nazism, Rutte got back into bed with that terrible Turkish dictator. The man who has now invaded the north of Syria after the American troops have withdrawn there; that man does not care about everything and everyone. That man acts like the twin brother of IS leader Al-Baghdadi. In his behavior and ideology he does not differ from his friends and allies of ISIS. This man now threatens us that if we call his crimes as they are, namely an occupation, he will send 3.6 million migrants to Europe and thus also to the Netherlands. Thousands of terrorists are likely to be among them, because they are still in the Kurdish camps and a large number have already escaped or been liberated. Mr. Chairman. The only language terrorist Erdogan listens to is acting hard. Only a conviction and suspension of arms supplies decided by the EU is, of course, a proof of inability, totally inadequate. Erdogan isn't gonna sleep on this night and not throw a bomb any less. The conclusions of the European Foreign Ministers still state that this is really not a pen to describe under point 3: Turkey is a key partner of the European Union, Turkey is an important partner of the European Union. What a lame show. What a total incompetence the EU and Minister Blok show there. They should be ashamed of themselves. I think it's crystal clear what needs to be done now. Mrs Marijnissen rightly said that we can do a lot more than what the cabinet is now doing. First of all, put Turkey out of NATO, tell Erdogan that Turkey can never become a member of the EU and close that money supply completely. Put the Turkish ambassador out of our country, say that customs agreement with Turkey, stop granting visas to Turks, boycott Turkish products and once again the Turkish airlines. Tell Schengen, introduce national border surveillance to prevent migrants and terrorists if Erdogan sends them this way and re-enact their own immigration policy. We have to decide who we let in and who we don't. If you do not, Mr Rutte, and if you come up with excuses again that we need the Turks later on and that the EU is already doing what it can, it is now allowing millions of migrants and thousands of terrorists to come this way. You are not only a weak driver, but also a danger to the Netherlands. The security of our country now requires tough measures against Turkey, the immediate withdrawal of Schengen and the reintroduction of national border control. Do that and do it now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. Turkey's invasion of Afrin is unheard of. People are being murdered, civilians are being murdered, villages are being destroyed and the Kurdish army is being chased by the Turks. That is precisely the Kurdish army that has brought out the hottest coal for the Netherlands, for NATO and for the European Union in the fight against ISIS and has suffered the greatest losses. They, of all people, are now being haunted by a NATO ally, Turkey. And, oh shame, to make it worse, those Turkish troops are preceded by rebels that we have also supported from the Netherlands in the past. Mr. Chairman. It shows the powerlessness of the European Union and the limited power of NATO when we are not united. But we cannot be surprised by the invasion of Turkey and by the withdrawal of the United States, because Trump had already announced it in his campaign and last year he announced it again. That is why I have requested this debate. Trump stayed for another year. He asked many EU states, including the Netherlands, to help him in Syria and the Netherlands has not yet responded. So we cannot be surprised that the United States has just moved away. We ourselves have a role to play in this. Last week, we debated and tabled a number of solid motions, and yesterday also when it comes to EU sanctions. We have also debated the humanitarian situation for many Kurds. Mr Asscher will comment on that. My colleague, Mr Koopmans, will be discussing EU sanctions and opportunities in a moment. When it comes to the arms embargo, we have also tabled a motion, which has not actually been fully implemented as we intended. Nor the EU. The EU should, of course, have taken more out of it. Surely it is terrible that we have not come to sanctions from the EU? When will that be possible? Madam President. Much has, of course, changed compared to last week when we debated. The U.S. has turned a little bit. Congress thinks so, too. US policy is more than Trump's Twitters. It is now clear that Trump will not even pull the army completely out of Syria and that the rest of the army will stay in the region. In addition, we have seen an increasing number of ISIS fighters being released. That has also changed compared to last week. It is appalling to see NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg saying at the time of Turkey's invasion: I will see him on Friday. Erdogan has had 72 hours to bomb everything there and he has used it. That's terrible, isn't it? The Secretary-General of NATO is prepared to stand on the doorstep of Erdogan the day after, isn't he? Madam President. If we are united, then we can do something, with the EU and with NATO. What we need is leadership. That is why I am pleased to say that the Prime Minister is here today. That is good, because this is very important for the Netherlands, for Europe and for peace in the world. Let the Prime Minister have just recently received an award in Australia for great leadership in time of crisis. What do we need now? Great leadership in time of crisis. That's why it's good that the Prime Minister is here. Madam President. On two points, we really need action from the cabinet. This concerns first of all the recognition of the danger posed by the released ISIS fighters. We need to do more with that. We're not doing enough with that. Last week we tried to persuade the Foreign Minister to do something about it. That didn't work. The Foreign Minister has not yet said that I recognise the danger posed by the ISIS fighters, and I am going to do something about it. That is why I want this cabinet within NATO to carry out a so-called Article 4 consultation. Article 4 is about: if one Member considers that the security of one Member State is threatened, then we are doing such a consultation. I think we should do that, because the liberation of the entire IS army is a danger to all of us. The second point we want action on is to align the United States' sanctions with those of the EU. That doesn't mean anything about whether we're friends with Trump or the United States. That doesn't mean anything about whether we liked Trump's policy so much in recent times. The point is that we are the strongest if the EU's sanctions, which are to come, coincide with the US sanctions and strengthen them. Actually, the prime minister with Macron should go to Trump tomorrow and say, "Listen, we're in this mess and we're gonna decide how we're gonna work this out together." That would be best. I call on the Prime Minister to take action on these two points. Of course, I am very willing and many with me will certainly not do so only to support, encourage and encourage the cabinet on these two points, if necessary in the second instance with fine motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I see a number of your colleagues who would like to ask a question. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u13	Lovenable words, especially when it comes to what to do with the warriors running loose there. I think that's what we're all worried about. What does the CDA colleague see in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u14	An article 4 consultation can be done when one of the Member States sees that the country's security is under threat. The release of ISIS fighters at any time poses an acute threat to the security of NATO and EU Member States. In other words, NATO Member States must meet on this point. Last week I tabled a motion on this subject and then the Foreign Minister or his replacement asked me: if you delete that 'Article 4', I can support it. At that time I said that I would rather adopt a slightly weakened motion than reject a very strong motion. Then I got it out, but that same evening the Minister sent me another letter, Madam President, that is the way it goes with motions; we should actually find something of that, which said: I am not going to do so specifically, because we are already getting together regularly this week. So the message to the Kurds and the Jezidis is: dear people, the Netherlands will throw a ball at Erdogan in the next regular meeting. That's not possible; I wanted immediate action. You acknowledge the danger of ISIS fighters by saying: we are calling in Article 4 because we are under threat. The NATO countries must discuss how they can resolve this in common.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u15	Article 4 is not going to ensure that those ISIS fighters, when released from those camps, return to Europe and the Netherlands. On the basis of Article 4, you can consult with each other, but with this you can't get a solution for each other. What we do know is that, as European countries, we have the opportunity to bring back the warriors who are sitting there, as far as possible by the situation that has arisen there, with handcuffs so that we can lock them up, know who they are and have them in our sights. Is that also a passable way for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u16	What Mr Klaver wants is not possible at all. That really can't be right now; it can't be. There is no European country that is currently considering entering Syria to apprehend and captivate IS fighters, whether or not they are captured. I can't do that right now. It's too dangerous out there. No European country would do that. Even the Red Cross isn't going in there right now. So what Mr Klaver is proposing here is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u17	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u18	That's right. That's exactly the cynical thing, because there has been a moment when it could. There was a moment when the Americans even offered: you know what, shall we deliver them to you? Not yet by DHL, but that's what it came down to. The CDA didn't want that then, and now we're at the point where we're panicking: oh dear, they might be out there walking around; maybe they're coming to Europe. And the strongest answer I hear is: perhaps we should consult our NATO partners. We missed a chance. I would like the CDA to indicate now, should the possibility arise in the next few weeks, but it is still a question of whether that happens if we can actually pick people up again, with handcuffs to securely lock them up. I hope the CDA will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u19	No, we're not gonna do that. We're not gonna do that. We're not gonna bet our people. Nor are we going to use United States military forces to bring terrorists to safety. Let us then rather do something for the people who are the victims and who are also under much heavier conditions than the IS fighters. What needs to be done is this. Once the possibility exists and someone can enter, one must put them back in jail and try them there. Not so much because I want to, but because the people of Syria themselves, the Syrian Democratic Forces, but also the people of Iraq, say: 'Dear people, help us now with the detention, detention and trial of ISIS fighters'. They say: do not bring them to Europe as if we can't, because we can. I was with Mrs Ploumen at the Humanity House at a wonderful meeting organized by PAX. There a young lady from Iraq said: let us bring those people to justice; we have a right to do so here. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u20	Really finalizing, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr Van Helvert says that we are not going to risk American lives for that either. Those Americans have offered it to us before. We're not talking about the U.S. military's deployment at all. We can talk about how to lock them in there. But the actual situation is, and we've known it for a long time, that the chances of them getting out are huge. And we had a choice of picking them up, and handcuffs to bring them here. And now we have no idea what's gonna happen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u22	This idea sounds very nice and I wish it were. But if we had done so as the Netherlands, we would indeed have, at the risk of our people's lives, brought some terrorists to safety, as Mr Klaver would have liked. But most terrorists don't come from the Netherlands. Those terrorists are still at large, too, a danger to the Netherlands. So although it sounds beautiful, it is not possible and no solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u23	I have a very clear question for Mr Van Helvert. I believe that the aim is to ensure that Turkey stops this illegal war and illegal invasion as soon as possible. I understand that Mr Van Helvert, like the SP Group, is absolutely not satisfied with the results of last Monday's EU consultation. I hear Mr Van Helvert talking about seeking contact with the United States to talk about sanctions. Is Mr Van Helvert prepared to join with the SP Group in appealing to this cabinet so that, for example, Mr Rutte, together with Macron, Merkel and perhaps with Trump, a coalition, whether or not the whole of the European Union participates, with the aim of declaring firm sanctions against Erdogan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u24	I have said: if necessary, I will even table a splendid motion to that effect. And I won't do that alone, because sanctions work best if you put them together. We already find this difficult within the EU, and that is already very difficult with the United States together. But it would be the best. That's why it's good that the Prime Minister is here. He can show leadership. He can go to Trump with a number of big leaders in the EU, or one of them, Macron, and say, "Listen, we're in this mess, we're gonna figure out how we're gonna solve that together and how we're gonna strengthen our sanctions instead of trying something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u25	I'd like to make sure. If I listen carefully to Mr Van Helvert's words, then he does not accept that the cabinet is hiding behind the idea that we as the European Union can only do things unitedly. So you are also making a strong appeal here: no, together with a number of EU leaders, and possibly with Trump, we can move forward in order to impose these sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u26	Let me put this first: sanctions from the Netherlands alone, that's not going to be him. The best thing is for us to do this together with the European Union. But we do see that it takes a very long time for the European Union to come up with something, while the Kurds in Syria are constantly the victims. If the Prime Minister can discuss with Trump with a number of other strong EU leaders the strengthening of each other's sanctions, as forward positions on behalf of the EU or in anticipation of what the EU can do, I think that is a good idea. The motion I intend to table is on my bench; otherwise I would have read it now. But what I have just said to you is not in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u27	Finally. Then I'll wait for that motion. I am concerned that tonight should at least be made clear what we in the House of Representatives are saying. That is what I am tasting from Mr Van Helvert's words. We express our disgust; we do so over and over again. But at the same time you claim that it has been too long and that Erdogan has not been put in the way for too long. We can no longer look away as the Netherlands, but we must not hide behind a European Union with leaders who cannot agree with each other, while the Kurds are being trampled underfoot there and suffer every day. So I am glad to hear that Mr Van Helvert is also saying tonight: we are not just leaving our ears hanging on unity in the European Union. Of course, reality is not going to change just because we adopt a motion in the Netherlands, but the Netherlands can indeed play a leading role. The Netherlands can indeed lead the way and argue for tougher sanctions, regardless of whether the whole of the European Union is in favour of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u28	I do not agree with everything that has now been paraphrased as if I had said all that. I'll tell you first. The most important thing is that the EU's and US's sanctions are mutually reinforcing. I have said that I will call on the Minister to lead the way with European leaders. Yes, there may be a pioneering role in this, but I just heard you say that we should not let our ears hang on to Europe and should not hide behind Europe. No, we need to strengthen each other and be united in Europe. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u29	In March 2010, my group leader, Mr Wilders, named Erdogan a total freak. A Jan Peter Balkenende then scolded him and said: you do not talk about foreign leaders, and certainly not about the prime minister of an important NATO ally like Turkey. Now I ask Mr Van Helvert: is that still the CDA's position on the Prime Minister of the "important ally Turkey"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u30	I believe that Prime Minister Balkenende spoke wise words at the time, because that is indeed not how you talk about leaders. That doesn't mean you agree with that leader, but it's always a leader. There is absolutely no point in calling an ugly text across for a nice headline in the hope that it solves something. In addition, 2010 was a few years ago. I think that is also very close to the year in which Erdogan got a nice prize for something peaceful he had done. In international politics he was then much more believed in the meaning of "belief," not "believing" and praised for the work he did for Turkey and the international community. That's the situation we outlined at the time, which was there at the time. I'd like to add something else that I didn't make in terms of time before. I remember that in 2012 I was in the Provincial States of Limburg with Mr Öztürk. We had the Floriade then, in 2012. In 2012, on behalf of Turkey, the main investor of that Floriade in Venlo, President Gül, arrived in the province of Limburg. He was welcomed by Mr Öztürk, by me and by Queen Beatrix. That was a time, seven years ago, when we worked perfectly with Turkey, where there were very good relations with Turkey. That was already the case in 2010. It was a totally different time. And it's so close, but it feels so awfully far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u31	I thank Mr Van Helvert for his history lesson, but of course I did not ask for any of that. My question was: is this still the position of the CDA? My conclusion after his reaction is: indeed, the CDA is still a weak broth of Jan Peter Balkenende.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u32	That's such an example. It's okay to disagree. That's why we're in this room. We're not here to hand out pussies. We can share our differences here, but I regret that you appreciate each other in the words as Mr De Roon is speaking. That means that you don't actually find the right words to express your feelings and then fall into those kind of words. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I shall then give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u34	Mr. Chairman. In January 2016 I visited the Dutch military in northern Iraq with the then Minister of Defence. They trained Kurdish fighters there. What they told me made a big impression on me. They told how Kurds from a nearby village reported massively in search of training, for help. That went from very young boys, actually too young to fight, to very old men who could barely carry their weapon anymore. They wanted to free their villages from the barbaric domination of IS. Those Dutch soldiers told us that they mainly needed very basic training, first aid on the spot, so that someone in a gunshot wound does not die in the truck that takes him off the battlefield. The Dutch soldiers were impressed by the courage and fighting spirit of the Kurds there. That was Iraq. I know. We're talking about Northern Syria now. But we know how the Kurds fought there, how the Kurds worked to try to help and save the Jezidis, when no one looked back at them. I think what is happening now in a civil war that is already horrible is really a new, black chapter. The civilian population is suffering immensely again. People are running away. As a result, the danger of escaping IS fighters seems to arise, putting those same Jezidis and other victims face-to-face with the murderers and rapists of their family members, in an area that has already been so ravaged. I know that Turkey is receiving an enormous amount of Syrian refugees. That should not be underestimated. I also understand that they are concerned about what is happening at their southern border. But what's happening here is really horrible. That has to be stopped. There can never be an armed solution to the concerns about that area. That means Erdogan will have to go back. As far as I am concerned, this also means that the Netherlands must be in favour of stricter, clear measures against Turkey, in the area of arms supplies and in the area of economic sanctions. This also means asking ourselves, as the Netherlands and as the European Union, what we ourselves have left behind. I thought Mr Van Helvert's question was right. There was a request to help guard prisoners. We didn't discuss it here. It was a notification note. But I think we should ask ourselves whether Trump, with all his irresponsible behavior, did not have a point there. Europe has a huge interest in a safe situation, in not escaping those IS fighters, in stability. I support Mr Van Helvert's request to create the Rule 4 procedure. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to cooperate with the European leaders and rationally identify foreign terrorist fighters, foreign fighters from a large number of countries, including from Europe, and to identify the security risks we face, to make scenarios of what to do about them and not to rule things out beforehand. We must see what is best and what we can do on the basis of our security in Europe and the safety of the people there. Now that more than 100,000 people are fleeing there, I would add that we also have an obligation to see how we can provide humanitarian support for them. The United Nations has indicated that it needs 30 million. I urge this cabinet not to wait, but to step forward. This isn't a business as usual. This is the least we can do. We have a responsibility to help out there. We must at least try to move in order to alleviate the humanitarian needs of people in a horrible situation, which should be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr. Chairman. Tonight, the House of Representatives of the United States condemned President Trump's actions. That doesn't really get us anywhere. It is the actions of this president and his unpredictability, which we knew he had in his house, which have taken care of the current situation. That has to do with more than just the troops that have been withdrawn. He has, as it were, opened the door, also in a political sense, so that Erdogan could go ahead. Mr. Chairman. This situation teaches me in particular that there is no longer any world leadership at the moment. There was a time when we could look at the United States. They were gonna jump in. Yes, Minister of Foreign Affairs Pompeo is now travelling to Ankara, but that is a bit like the pyromaniac who set the fire is now going to try to put it out. Which of the European leaders is on their way to Ankara? Merkel's on his way to the exit. Mogherini's packing her bags. It's waiting for the next foreign representative. What is the role of the Netherlands in this? Mr. Chairman. We must make every effort to ensure that a ceasefire is reached as soon as possible. That is not easy, but we must all try to do what is in our power. There is a special responsibility for the Netherlands. First of all, because the Kurds, who are now suffering so badly, have fought for us there. We can't abandon them. There's another reason. Where there is no leadership in Europe, I believe that this Prime Minister has an important role to play. He is now one of the longest serving prime ministers. This means that he can play an important role in Europe as a government leader. I followed yesterday's debate at a distance and saw the Prime Minister say that he wants to wait and see how it develops further in Europe. When he sees possibilities that the panels are shifting, he doesn't want to stop it. No, what we need is an active role for this Prime Minister. It can ensure that majorities that are needed to achieve real sanctions will actually come about. We're not powerless. We all know that Turkey is largely dependent on the European Union. About 40% of Turkey's imports and exports are with the EU. The country is four and a half times the size of the Netherlands, but GDP is slightly smaller than that of the Netherlands. Turkey depends on Europe. We need to turn off the cash taps in every possible way. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to this, I would also like to ask how the Prime Minister views the end of cooperation between the European Investment Bank and Turkey. Since the start of the EIB, more than EUR 28 billion of loans have been granted to Turkey. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the United Nations. I would like to endorse the point made by Mr Asscher about humanitarian aid. The United Nations has indicated that it needs about 30 million. I believe that the Netherlands should make a fair contribution to this. But there's more. It is easy to be cynical about the United Nations, and indeed about the United States. The United Nations are lousy and it is the question of what they can really do. Yet at the moment there is not really a better stage in the world where we can try to get something done. That is why I would like to urge the Prime Minister to work for a resolution. Last week it was prevented, but we must continue to work for a resolution that ensures that the Kurds are given the protection they need and that there is a cease-fire. At the moment, I do not see much other avenues than through the same United Nations. Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about the role of the cabinet. The Foreign Minister, who still has this file on his plate, was sent out last week by this Chamber. He himself did not realize that he had to be at perhaps one of the most important meetings of the European Union. This room had to tell him to be there. I'm not okay with that. I want to see more of the feeling that it's really necessary that he's on top of it. But there is another point. This is about the ISIS fighters that were also the subject of the Interrupt debate. When I see the attitude of this cabinet, I have the picture in front of me every time. Perhaps you remember the big red button in the election debate: I prefer that they die there rather than they come back. When it comes to these Syrian fighters, it sometimes seems as if foreign policy is still determined by that one red button in that election debate. It is naive to think that we can keep those people there, that we can keep the people locked up there, that we can condemn them there. Yes, it is true: the chances of non-Dutch coming here are very high. That is why other countries, for example the United Kingdom, say that perhaps we should change our policies and get people out of there. This setup reminds me of how I play hide-and-seek with my children, especially with the middle, a toddler. If I tell him to hide, he'll close his eyes, because he won't see me. That's a bit of how we're dealing with the situation with the Syrian fighters now. I think we really need a different direction there. Mr. Chairman. I have one short question. What's Erdogan's promise worth? Erdogan has indicated that he will take care of those Syrian fighters. He said he'd take care of security. Can we assume that will actually happen and can we be sure that Erdogan is really on our side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Oh, Mr De Roon has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u38	Last week there was such a fine motion from Mrs Karabulut. I'm going to tell you in my own words what was in that motion. The previous cabinet has supported all kinds of extremist Islamic combat troops by giving them gifts: binoculars, night vision, Toyotas, all kinds of vehicles and protective vests. Mrs Karabulut said in that motion that there are indications that the groups who received it at the time are again involved in the raid in Northern Syria. The Labour Party and the VVD voted against that motion. I understand that, because they had made dirty hands at the time, of course, by agreeing to all those gifts for those extremist groups. But GroenLinks also voted against this. I don't understand yet. Can you explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u39	I can certainly explain that. That's actually pretty clear. We know something went wrong there. My colleague Van Ojik always speaks very strongly. He's been very clear about this going wrong. We know that. I believe it has been debated four, five, six times in this Chamber. To draw attention to this once again, to dive into this again to see if these fighting groups that are still active there are still using these means, does not bring peace closer and does not bring protection of the Kurds any closer. Let me put it bluntly here: it went wrong. The cabinet did that wrong and so did we in Parliament, because we were there and we were looking at it. Looking at that again isn't gonna change that. That is why we voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u40	I'm not asking you to look again. Nor did the motion ask to look again at what went wrong then. The motion asks to look at what is going wrong with the same fighting groups that have thus supported the previous cabinet. It's still a mystery why you don't want that investigation. It seems more like you want to keep the cabinet out of the wind at this point and perhaps want to crawl on Mr. Rutte's lap again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u41	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The war in Syria demands hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees. That war is horrible. The Turkish fight against the Kurds is making him even worse. We've all seen the footage: executions along the edge of the road, bombings. You know, before I became a Member of Parliament, I worked for the United Nations, especially in the peace negotiations for Syria. That's why I've been talking to a lot of victims, people who've been through really horrible things. They're heartbreaking tragedies. I'm not gonna spell them out right now, but they're horrible things. That is why, of course, I know very well that it is not wise to talk about holiday flights in any way in the context of this debate. That's not the point at all. The point is that we hit President Erdogan where it hurts him: in his budget, in his arsenal and in his international support. That is why the VVD has been advocating, from the outset, not the scattering of unfocused and unilateral sanctions, but rather targeted and joint sanctions, such as the reduction of the EU aid that it does not need and does not deserve. We are closing the door to the European Union for Turkey as well. It would be good if everyone here supported these VVD proposals. If the Netherlands wants to hit Erdogan, we have to do it together. Not every party for itself and not the Netherlands alone. It is not about the means, it is about the purpose of letting Erdogan know that his invasion is indigestible and that it is about helping the victims. I therefore ask the government to examine what European funds Turkey can now be deprived of and to insist that the EU accession negotiations be formally terminated. I also ask that, where possible, money be made available for humanitarian aid to the Kurdish and other victims. The Turkish invasion already led to the outbreak of ISIS fighters captured by Kurds. Erdogan claims to take responsibility for neutralizing these people. The VVD doesn't believe him and holds him responsible. It is good that Minister Blok is working with other countries on local trial of jihadists in Iraq. It has to be a fair trial. We are not in favour of the death penalty, but if it is applied on the spot, outside of our control, it is the terrorist's occupational risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u44	Before you go any further. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u45	Mr Koopmans begins by listing the misery, the suffering and the atrocities that are currently taking place in North-East Syria. Last Sunday he himself referred to this for a while already he had the opportunity in Buitenhof to reflect on that. Despite the fact that bombs are falling, refugee flows are starting and IS barbarians are walking out of prison, Mr Koopmans talked about the Corendon holidays. Isn't that true? I heard you at Buitenhof brought that up. There was more to that, because he didn't just talk about the Corendon holidays. Economic sanctions were not yet necessary for Mr Koopmans either. His VVD colleague had a very different story later in the day in Nieuwsuur, because it was for economic sanctions. However, Mr Koopmans did not speak in the morning, because he was talking about the Corendon holidays. Now Mr Koopmans is here tonight and I have the next question for him. Is he prepared to take firm economic sanctions against Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u46	It may be quite clear: we are in favour of joint sanctions, not unilateral stroosanctions as the SP proposes: let us sanction everything. No, we have to be together and tough. That is why the VVD has made very concrete proposals. We have said: let us look at all these EU aid funds. I have talked about billions in exactly the same programme that Mrs Marijnissen has been looking at. I have also talked about all the other means we need to seek to strike together. I say to Mrs Marijnissen: where was Mrs Marijnissen? Where was the SP? The VVD, with a number of other parties here, has been committed to sending F-16s to bomb the ISIS fighters there when needed. The SP was against it. The SP was against all forms of intervention. The SP was against all the attempts we have made here with many parties to help the Kurds. And what did the SP do? The SP didn't do anything. The SP said we want support, but we don't do anything. I ask, yes, it is not my turn now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u47	No, Mrs. Marijnissen has already been.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u48	But I would like to ask: what does the SP do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u49	This is so easy and not only bad, because I want to answer your question with all my love: we do a lot. And indeed, our preference is not military intervention if we think that is non-proportional and non-effective. But we've certainly done a lot. For example, we have proposed six arms embargoes against Turkey here in the House of Representatives, so that they do not now have those dirty weapons, which harm people, every minute we speak here. That's what we did. So don't come to me with the story that the SP doesn't do anything, Mr. Koopmans, because that's just not true. But you're not going to answer my question. The things you mention about economic sanctions are all free of charge. They are nothing at all when you are hiding behind the so-called unity of the European Union at the same time. Last Monday, we saw that there isn't one. So what do the Kurds, the Jezidis and the Christians have to your words, Mr Koopmans, at the moment when you speak very firm words and say: those economic sanctions are necessary, but only in common? And just don't let that community be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u50	This is about war and all people dying. That's terrible. That is why I have some difficulty in saying to Mrs Marijnissen that she is actually saying very confusing and really sad things. She says at first that I was not in favour of economic sanctions. Now she says: yes, you are in favour of economic sanctions. Why isn't that enough? Mrs Marijnissen then says: the SP did not support that we are investing in our security and not supporting that we are sending F-16s to bomb those terrorists away, but the SP has tabled a motion. Well, I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u51	This is in no way an answer to my question, is it? This is a qualification of what I'm saying. But I ask you: what do the Kurds, the Jezidis and the Christians have to say about your words if you are now really good! As a VVD, you continue to hide behind the so-called unanimity in the European Union, which is not there? Would you answer that question, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u52	The VVD has said from the beginning: we want action as hard as possible. We want to do them together and we need to be focused. Not all other people should just get involved; they should be focused on these horrible acts. We have said: let us look at all the billions of aid that the European Union is giving Turkey, and let us try to use it. We also said that Turkey should no longer negotiate accession to the European Union; that should not happen. In addition, when situations really occurred, the VVD supported, for example in the time of the Jezidis who were attacked on a mountain by ISIS, who wanted to kill them, that F-16s went there, so that the terrorists were chased away. Then the SP was against it. So I find it very painful that Mrs Marijnissen is now pretending that the VVD is not doing anything, while the SP was busy painting banners. I find that painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u53	Let me take a look at that and try to respond in substance to what Mr Koopmans says. Actually, I hear him saying two things. He's talking about stopping the entry fees. I would say that this is not new; it has been called for a long time. Think of the Segers/Roemer motion, to name a few. It's not new, and that's not helping people right now. I also hear you say that when it comes to sanctions, we are in fact going to have to put a stop to all this; we have to say that Turkey should no longer be allowed to enter into the negotiations for the European Union. That's nothing new. That has been said so many times here in the Chamber. I find that painful, Mr. Koopmans. You can take me into account about political matters. You're allowed to fry. But I think this is something very important. It's about an illegal war that a so-called NATO ally of ours has started. It's about the suffering and misery of thousands of people right now. And then you'll get no further than pleading for firm sanctions. I hear you mention two things that are not new at all and then you hide behind the unity of the European Union, knowing that there is no such thing. I therefore note that they are strong words of the VVD, but the Kurds, the Jezidis and the Christians are not of any use at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u54	I now call, as the VVD has been doing for a long time, for very hard action against President Erdogan and against Turkey for this illegal act. Fortunately, we all find them horrible. But let us be very clear about what we can do and what we have to do. We are not just talking about pre-accession funds, which the motion is indeed about, but also about all the other funds that Turkey receives. You know, for building the Erdogan Bridge. That's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u56	Eventually, we need to see how you can really help people. That is also by taking action. When it comes to the real issue, for example, it is the courage to deploy your forces. That's what happened. That's why we supported the arrival of F-16s. That's real action. Motions aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u57	It is very good to hear that the VVD wants very harsh sanctions against Turkey. I have just made the proposal on the European Investment Bank. It's got 28 billion in loans. Is that a direction the VVD can support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u58	The VVD wants the cabinet to look at all possible EU funds that could be deployed. We are not going to say in advance: this can and cannot be done. We ask the Cabinet to examine all these funds and see what can be used to move in the direction we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u59	But then what's the research question? We know what kind of money there are. The cabinet does not need to find out, because we all have that at our disposal. If we look at what there are majorities for now, that's a bit of a twist. I believe that the message we have to give the Cabinet is that we want it to look for majorities. If you put that in general, the cabinet can get out too easily. Sorry. We need to make it precise, and that is why we are putting forward the proposal of the European Investment Bank, the EIB. It's about big money, 28 billion in loans. I don't even know what kind of loans they're going to spend in the future. Can you support the direction in which we instruct the cabinet to work towards a majority in order to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u60	I'd even like to move on. I'd say let's look at all the money. Of course, you can't deal with some of the money. For example, we all consider the refugee deal to be very important. There is money on the other hand, and that must remain. But we need to look very clearly at all the means that the European Union can gather to make President Erdogan very clear that what is happening now is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u61	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants to keep terrorists out of the door, and unlike some parties we do not want to bring jihadists and their families to the Netherlands. Those offenders must be tried where they committed their crimes, so that local witnesses can testify against them, and so that the next of kin can also look the perpetrators in the eye. We also want this because we want to keep the Netherlands as safe as possible. We do not want to bring the children here, because the right to family reunification makes it impossible to exclude the parents or terrorist indoctrination coming with them. That is why these children must also be cared for in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u63	It's not entirely clear to me. Mr Koopmans says a number of times that he is in favour of harsh sanctions, but he keeps saying to the specific questions of Marijnissen and Klaver: we have to look at everything. That gives the impression that he does not want to answer the question, and I do not think we should have that impression here. I was also a little confused about Mr Koopmans' Corendon statement. So let's make the question a little more specific. Would he be prepared to support the proposal that Mr Klaver has just made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u64	I said we should look at the target. What's it about? It's not about the means, it's about the purpose. The point is that we find everything we have in the closet to make it clear to President Erdogan that what he is doing now is absolutely impossible. And then there is no need to sort by this medicine or medicine. Then it's good that we look very specifically at what's going on. Let's use that. But let's keep looking at the target. I think we all agree on that. So we need to see how we can convince him, and I do not think it is up to the Chamber to say that we have identified this means here by way of motion. It is our job to see what we can gather to make it absolutely clear that what is happening now cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u65	The VVD says here: there is no need to sort for it. I think it's necessary. If we want to send a clear message to the cabinet and if we want to try to make a fist with other countries against this horrible situation, we will have to presort. Then we'll have to make it clear that we're serious. Then the answer 'we have to look at everything' - you have indeed said - would really give the impression that we do not want to become concrete in this. That would be a shame. You represent the largest government party. We think the cabinet could do more here. I do not doubt the shared horror of what is happening, but it is necessary to show leadership here. So I ask the question again. Can we at least be more precise today about what we are asking the Cabinet for and about what majorities are to be sought to impose concrete, sharp economic sanctions on Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u66	Also the question of the VVD to the cabinet is: what concrete things are there and which can we use by a majority? We must ensure that the Chamber or the Cabinet says 'no, specifically this must be done', after which there will be no majority in the European Union and we will be alone. Because then Erdogan laughs in his fist. That's why this community is so important. And that's why it's good to see what resources you have. I do not think we should specifically mention this or that here, but we should ask the Cabinet what is available. That is why the VVD proposal is broader than that of GroenLinks. We say: let's not just look at what comes from this bank, but let's look at all the money. Because there are a lot of EU funding going to Turkey, for example for building infrastructure. Let's put that on the table, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u67	Finally. I hope that we will be able to do business on that in the second term. You ask the question 'become concrete in that' actually to the cabinet. You ask the Cabinet to appoint the most effective sanctions, but I would appreciate it if you would not pretend that Erdogan is smiling when we say here that severe economic sanctions are needed. I rather think there is a laugh when he hears the VVD saying: let's keep looking wide and think about the holiday flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u68	I regret, however, that Mr Asscher keeps bringing this up again and again. I have said several times before: I have taken an example of this in a debate, and that was not very sensible. I know. I will not say 'like no other', but at least I know that very well, precisely because I have been involved in that war for years. I've talked to all the victims, and I know how horrible it is. I tried to say something there: let us not throw out all kinds of sanctions and do things like that. I have used a clumsy example of this, and I have said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u69	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u70	But I do not think that we should constantly stir it up in a debate on war and peace and on what we should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u72	But if Mr Asscher does so, that is a pity. Mr. Chairman. If you want to fight danger, you have to have the courage to make dirty hands. That is why we must also ask ourselves what we did when the Kurds in Iraq asked for a Dutch mission. Where were we when the Jezidis were attacked and then I recalled the Dutch F-16s, by the way, along with others, who bombed away terrorists? The VVD then chose to confront that danger and let's keep doing it and let's do it all together. Finally, Mr President. The abrupt withdrawal of the Americans was a terrible mistake and it paved the way for Erdogan, Assad and Putin, and for new and truly unimaginable suffering in Syria. This must not happen again, and we must also provide humanitarian aid. But we have to fight the terrorists, try them and keep them there. We must continue to invest in our defence and national security. So that also means that we have to make a fist together. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying one thing. I also get reports about the situation in the Netherlands. Those tensions would now also arise in the Netherlands. That's terrible. It is terrible that such a war affects all of us here and turns against each other. That's horrible. Let us therefore try to seek some unity and not the division.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u74	I'm not gonna start about... I am very pleased that Mr Koopmans says: I have chosen wrongly the words I used in Buitenhof about the Corendon flights. But why colleagues continue to do so, and why I have a question about it, is that last week Mr Koopmans said in the debate: we must not hit innocent citizens. By that he just meant people here in the Netherlands. In other words, we can't touch our own economy. Does that mean he came back from that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u75	The point is to find the means to achieve the goal. And what's the target? The aim is to hit President Erdogan and stop him from doing that horrible action that is taking place there. That's the point. What I wanted to say is: let us not pre-sort this or that unilateral means. That is, on something we happen to have in the closet. I was just talking to Mr Asscher about it. But let's bet on what hits President Erdogan. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u76	That is a very nice open door, because everyone wants us to hit President Erdogan. But you have reworded it: we should not do things that affect innocent Dutch citizens, or that can also affect our economy. Yet sometimes it can be that if you want to hit Erdogan, it also has consequences for our economy. And yet we do it! We do it because it serves a greater interest and because we let Turkey know that we do not accept it. You say you took back your words from Buitenhof. Classy! Really good. But does it mean anything material? Does it also mean that you have a different position and that you are therefore prepared to proceed with economic sanctions, even if it means that this will have negative consequences for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u77	I believe that I myself tabled that motion last week, which referred to financial sanctions, personal sanctions and the fight against war crimes. So that was very specific. It's not like anything's changed now. The motion was also about not touching people unnecessarily. If Mr Klaver looks at that, he will see that there is no specific mention of the Netherlands. It says, "Don't make people unnecessary." So that's what it's all about. The point is that we're hurting President Erdogan. I do not want to play games about this or that word now, because the point is that we can find common ground in the Chamber, ultimately with the cabinet, and in Europe to really get President Erdogan where it hurts. That's what I think it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr. Chairman. It was just one phone call between Trump and autocrat Erdogan, but it was a phone call with very far-reaching consequences: the betrayal of the Kurds, ISIS that got a new chance of life, Assad and Putin laughing in their face, and our security that is directly threatened. What Trump did in Syria is shocking but not surprising. It's an accident announced in December. Mr. Chairman. You will only be Kurdish and have fought in this bloody war against ISIS; 11,000 dead while we covered from the air. You will only be Kurdish and have removed all your defensive positions from Northern Syria at the request of the United States to pacify Turkey, only to see Trump give a free pass to that same Erdogan to open the hunt. That's Shakespeare's betrayal. Our first priority must be to save innocent lives, Madam President. So we must do everything we can to stop Turkey, to tell Erdogan to stop the invasion and come to a cease-fire. That will only happen under heavy European pressure, and that is why the outcome of the Foreign Affairs Council is so unlikely to be disappointing. A conviction, well, pooh-pooh. Half an arms embargo. It was an exercise in powerlessness and our European foreign policy is as strong as the backbone of the weakest Member State. It turned out to be too weak to be effective. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: which countries were against heavier sanctions? That is why yesterday there was also a broad-based motion by the CDA and D66 to tighten up sanctions, personal sanctions, but also sanctions that could relate to the customs union. I say this: they must be on the table at the European summit. They can't be in the back pocket; maybe, when the moment comes, if enough other countries say so. We shall have to say so ourselves. I say that because leadership is required. I understand that this does not mean that all the other Member States will have to join forces, but the Prime Minister will have to do so. Saving innocent lives can also be done with emergency aid, and where the Netherlands can do more, I would say: do so. Our second priority must be to continue the fight against IS, to prevent IS'ers from escaping and to continue their misdeeds or to return to the Netherlands under the radar. You'll only be Jezidi, Christian, Muslim or disthinking and come face to face with your sister's rapist, your parents' killer or those who took your house. It's indigestible. It's unthinkable. Mr President, these are the first people I think of, but it is certainly not inconceivable that European travellers should decide to go back, that they should come here, under the radar, and again pose a huge danger here. 700 ISs have escaped, 700, including five Belgians, people from our neighbouring country. IS is already planning surgeries to get more of them out. I ask the Prime Minister: what is the security situation in these detention camps, in Al-Roj, near Suleimaniya, and Al-Hol, where most of the Dutch are? Is it true that the number of guards there is decreasing? Is it true that the tensions are increasing? Is it true that the chances of escapes are increased? Didn't we turn down that American offer too quickly? Mr. Chairman. It is an important responsibility for this cabinet, for this Prime Minister, to ensure that these people do not return to Europe and to the Netherlands outside the sight of our services under the radar. We should not play hide-and-seek with reality. I ask the Prime Minister to acknowledge that there is indeed a risk that escaped ISs will be able to return to Europe. I'm also asking the Prime Minister how he's going to prevent that. Is he going to lean on Turkey, which has often had a double attitude towards Islamic State? Does he believe that the European Border Guard is waterproof? A Belgian security expert just said he doesn't think so. What additional measures does the Cabinet take to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the government is doing everything possible to prevent uncontrolled return. So if there's a choice between high-risk escapes or trial here, I choose the latter. That is why my group wants to give the government the opportunity to act when there is a need and when the opportunity arises. I ask the Prime Minister if he is making any preparations so that he can take action. I ask him if there is sufficient detention capacity in the Netherlands. I ask him if there are enough youth shelters in the Netherlands. And I ask him if the International Crimes Team is sufficiently equipped to have the burden of proof in order. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I ask the Prime Minister to show leadership in the European Union. Our foreign policy must be free of veto. We must no longer be blackmailable in our migration policy and we must be able to defend our own borders. Take that lead in the European Union. Please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The group of 50PLUS has many questions to which urgent answers are needed, eleven as many as possible. I will begin with the acute situation in Syria. A politician was dragged out of her car, raped and murdered. A human rights activist has been stoned and decapitated. A journalist and civilians have been bombed. Are those messages true? Can the Minister confirm that this may be war crimes? What action will the international community take? Two. What about humanitarian aid for people in the area? Three. Has the delivery of arms from the Netherlands really stopped? Four. How many weapons has the Netherlands sold to Turkey in the last five years? Are those weapons being used in the raid in Northern Syria? Five. Has the cabinet really strived and still strives for a total trade embargo by the Netherlands? Six. Erdogan threatens to open the gates and send millions of refugees to the EU. Is this a reason to strengthen the surveillance of Europe's external borders? Is assistance from the Dutch Navy conceivable? Then the threat of security in the Netherlands, question seven. Last week there was an escalation between Erdogan followers and Kurdish Dutch on the Malieveld in The Hague. Tonight this happened at the Kruisplein in Rotterdam, where Kurds and Turks are directly opposite each other. At some other places in Rotterdam it has also come to fights at this time. The police have just informed us that they can no longer guarantee security. I therefore ask whether Turkish Dutch people who are not Erdogan supporters and Kurdish Dutch people are threatened. What is the government doing about this, also to guarantee the freedom of expression of Turkish and Kurdish Dutch people who condemn the raid? The eighth question. What about the increased risk of terrorist attacks in the EU and in the Netherlands, as IS fighters escape Kurdish camps? Then there is the future of NATO and the EU. Can the rulers comment on the possible consequences for Cyprus? In the Greek part of Cyprus there is also a fear of Turkish invasion. What is NATO going to do in that case? Ten. There is a growing isolation of Turkey within NATO. The Secretary-General is now criticizing Turkey, which was not the case last year at Afrin. What scenarios are conceivable about Turkey's position in NATO and what is the government's commitment? My 11th and last question. How does the ever-increasing cooperation in the field of defence and even a possible EU army, which my group is not in favour of, relate to the accession talks with Turkey and the invasion of Syria? Finally. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this raid is a reason to call off Turkey's accession to the EU. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u83	Madam President. Many motions have already been tabled following the terrible invasion of Turkey in the Kurdish region in Syria, and many emotions have been expressed, even this evening, about the atrocities that are taking place for the Kurds, Christians, Jezidis and others who are victims, who are now in great need. Those motions are justified and those emotions are sincere, but they are satisfied, and we, as the SGP Group, can only be satisfied if Kurds, allies in the fight against ISIS, are not abandoned. We can't be satisfied until Erdogan is really stopped. The price tag must be too high for him. I admit it. What has also happened at EU level, in the context of the European Union, is the imposition of sanctions, the freezing of arms supplies. That's serious. I do not want to take that into account, but I do want to make it clear that it is not yet effective. Erdogan hasn't stopped, isn't impressed. That is why more stringent sanctions are needed. That's why we need to shut down the money supply. Therefore, more needs to be done which really works. Mr. Chairman. What is particularly distressing is that we are also talking about a NATO partner. Admittedly, always a somewhat strange duck in the NATO bite, but the argument was always: having them there would be a better way to influence them and win them for you. Tonight we'll wonder what that's gonna get us. How is Turkey addressed in the NATO context? This can't be happening, can it? Mr. Chairman. What is obvious is that the Netherlands and other European NATO countries need to invest more in their own armed forces and border surveillance. We need to learn to keep our own pants up better. Then, if necessary, we can stand up for what is dear to us, for example for protection against Islamic terrorism and for freedom and security, even without the help of the US. I would like to hear that our Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence confirm this evening that these circumstances again determine us on the need to take determined further steps to strengthen our defence. The history of our broken world teaches that who wants peace makes sense to prepare for war. The "peace of the city" is not self-evident. While smoke clouds are rising from the Turkish attacks, many IS fighters manage to escape. Anything that can be done to take better, effective measures that can support the Kurds in the fight against IS, including in the guarding of prisons with IS fighters, we must seize. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to join all those who have strongly advocated humanitarian aid, including the many refugees who are now seeking refuge and deserve our support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u85	Thank you, Mr President. War is horrible and war is propaganda. Operation Rainbow, Operation Olive branch, Operation Summer Rain and now Operation Peacelord. This week, Cartoonist Bas van der Schot made it painfully clear which cynical names are chosen for wars that make defenseless people play ball of geopolitical interests. Naming as gold for the political interests of Erdogan, Trump, Putin and Assad, and of the Dutch arms industry. If we want it to stop, we have to start with our own part in this misery. Minister Blok informed this Chamber that arms exports to Turkey, where there is a risk of arms being used in the battle in Northern Syria, were rejected. According to the Minister, arms supplies to Turkey are de facto suspended. The Animal Party wants no more weapons to go to Turkey. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that no European and Dutch weapons will go to Turkey? That's question one. The VVD thought we shouldn't risk the Turkish holidays. Later the VVD mentioned that as a bad example. Let's get out of here. It happens. Let us agree that the fate of 4 million displaced Syrians must be at the forefront and the fate of the Kurds, who have now chosen between two fires for the least of the two evils only to save the environment, and that of the people who have been driven out of their homes in the run-up to a winter that can also be very barren in Turkey and Syria. Let us agree that this must be the priority. Mr. Chairman. A NATO ally who does what Erdogan does is not an ally but a danger to peace and security. Europe has given ally Erdogan the ultimate blackmail weapon: the Turkey deal as a shield against European criticism of the invasion of Northeast Syria. The Animal Party was against the law that made staying in terrorist territory a criminal offence. Through this law, Dutch aid workers and journalists must first seek permission from the Ministry of Justice and Security and this is the most important work: independent news gathering as a counterweight to war propaganda and independent aid as a counterweight to war violence. NGOs, journalists and the Council of State have destructive criticism of this law, which is still being continued. Can the Prime Minister reflect on this in the light of the current circumstances, in which defenceless people are held hostage by superpowers? Is the Cabinet prepared to re-examine and reconsider that law? I'd like a response. We cannot leave the children of IS fighters who live in terrible conditions to their fate. There are parties in this house who want to condemn these children in absentia for the choice their parents made. Dutch children are entitled to stay in the Netherlands, regardless of who their parents are and what their parents' choice has been. The rights of children must be guaranteed. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Animal Party and is he prepared to act accordingly? We too are concerned about the IS fighters who can return massively. The Animal Party wants these warriors to be tried. What are the options for this? Mr. Chairman. Violence almost never solves anything and often leads to new violence and new escalation. Can the Prime Minister give us an insight into how he invests in de-escalation and what humanitarian aid he envisages for the Kurds and Syrian refugees in particular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u87	Mr. Chairman. About a week ago, it became clear how incredibly fragile freedom was when NATO's second largest army collapsed into a small and fragile democracy. To survive, this democracy has made a pact with the devil. The democracy I'm talking about is Self-Administration of North and East Syria, a multi-ethnic society with multi-ethnic self-government. There is freedom of religion, gender equality, equality of representation between women and minorities, and there are even plans for nature conservation. In addition to values, we also share interests with young democracy. Free societies, because of integration and the fight against terrorism, have an interest in the fact that authoritarianism and fundamentalism are nowhere to be found. Mr. Chairman. Two days ago, fundamentalist rebels supported by Turkey were dragging and murdering a political and women's rights activist from her car. Horrible. This event shows that AKP Turkey has a different view of human rights and democracy, while destabilisation in Syria harms Dutch interests. Despite the fact that Erdogan uses the European terrorist list as a reason for intervention, the Brussels Court of Appeal ruled in March that the PKK should not be seen as a terrorist movement. I therefore conclude that maintaining the PKK on this list is a political choice, which should make it possible to reconsider the list when it is abused by the Turkish state. Mr. Chairman. We must use all possible means to protect young democracy in Northern Syria. There is no stronger means against Erdogan than the fear that one day we will not have to support him unconditionally in his warfare. We must make it clear to Erdogan that the Netherlands is an ally of democracy and not necessarily of Turkey. That is the best way to get the Turkish army to withdraw. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u88	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u89	As those who are lazy can never be happy, so those who are sentimental can never achieve peace. The sentimentalized person is constantly confused, constantly caught by this suffering, then that suffering, but never will he be able to make a plan, to keep an objective in mind, as in the current situation in the Middle East, to develop a vision of a stable final situation. When I was just elected to the Chamber, I remember it well: two and a half years ago I had a debate here on Syria. It was one of my first debates. All outraged, brave faces. Stretched mouths. All idealism. They wanted to continue to weaken Assad. People were furious with me. How dare I question that the systematic destabilisation of the Middle East would be a good idea? How dare I question that all those Toyotas who sent Rutte there would end up okay? How dare I question that the 25 million that the Netherlands sent there would end up well? That's right. I questioned it. I'm still questioning it. And I'm getting right now. We have also received a delegation of Kurdish activists here. I remember that very well. Together with Joël Voordewind and a number of other spokesmen, I was in that hearing at that meeting. They're all warm feelings. All idealism. All good intentions. And the only question I asked was how many divisions do you have, how many tanks, how many planes? I was laughed at. That didn't matter, did it? Wasn't it about building this beautiful new world together on pure idealism, on purely good intentions? Then one day the new world order would come. And now exactly the scenario that I and many realists have predicted with me is happening: Turkey's attack on Syria is the logical and totally foreseeable consequence of the Western destabilisation of the Middle East, which politicians who are now crying crocodile tears are guilty of. You supported that absurd Arab Spring. In the name of daydreaming about democracy, you have supported all those insurgents and caused the total chaos of which we now experience yet another chapter. I recall: a war in Iraq to turn ancient Mesopotamia into a polder model to the Euphrates. Consequences: at least 500,000 deaths, total destabilisation of the region and a power vacuum in which ISIS eventually emerged. Afghanistan, Libya, exactly the same story. You're not learning. Billions of euros in costs, dozens of Dutch soldiers killed and migration routes along which now unheard of numbers of Africans and Arabs have come to our countries, with all the consequences. The pressure on the welfare state, the problem of integration, the terrorist attacks: all provideable for realists, but for you, seeing blind, but not within the field of vision. Thus, since 2011, the Netherlands has been supporting the opposition to Assad by the rebels in Syria. Since 2011, the Netherlands, together with the countries of the European Union, has imposed more and more sanctions: an arms boycott, a blockade of financial services and financial resources, stopping aviation, stopping luxury goods, fuels, gold, precious metals, diamonds, petrol, telecommunications equipment and so on. These are about the toughest sanctions imposed on a country in recent history. In the meantime, the opposition to Assad has become increasingly violent, increasingly grim, until we even supported jihadist groups financially and materially, for example, several WOB investigations have revealed. Syrians, Jezids, Kurds and Christians: they all became victims of your good intentions, your simplistic worldview, in which who is pathetic is always good and who uses violence must stand in the corner on the schoolyard. Mr President, I have one minute left, so I will come to my conclusions quickly. First of all, in the situation that has arisen, we will have to do what we can to control and reduce the situation somewhat. We must support the Kurds wherever possible and urge Turkey to stay as far as possible. But that's for the short term, for now. In the longer term, we can only draw one conclusion: the authority of Assad must be restored. That is the only chance of the return of order in Syria and also the only perspective for the Kurds, for the Jezidis, for the Christians, for all minorities in that extremely complex country, in that extremely complex area, in order to lead an orderly life again. This must be understood, here in the Chamber and in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u90	Does Mr Baudet know that, according to the current estimate, there are about half a million deaths, an innumerable number of injuries and that terrorism is taking place on an unprecedented scale? Does Mr Baudet know that all this has begun with the actions of President Assad, the person he is now advocating?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u91	I do not agree with the last statement in Mr Koopmans' list. It is absolutely true that there have been very many casualties in Syria, but also in other countries in that extremely complex region. But it didn't all start out of nowhere with wild actions. It's not like Bashar Al-Assad woke up one day thinking, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna go out in the wild... No, of course it didn't. A long and very complex history precedes this. The problem with many politicians here in the Lower House but also in the West in general is that they think they can solve all these extremely complex conflicts with their lifted finger. That is not the case. So first of all, it didn't just start out of thin air with a president who thought at some point: you know what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna shoot some people. Of course not. As far as it has a beginning, it has begun with a series of uprisings of all kinds of different groups who tried to destabilise that country and who at some point began to receive support from Western countries. Hey, it'll be fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u92	Does Mr Baudet remember the chemical attack in Syria, which is clearly the responsibility of President Assad? Does he remember that? And does he want to say what he's saying to the victims' next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u93	Firstly, I am disturbed by the overly indignant tone on which this has to be said. That doesn't help the discussion. It's a game that one then plays: "Oh, what is it all..." That's not the way to think about world problems. That's childish. That's not serious. That's sentimental. I would like to say two things about the attacks that have been made. Firstly, I do not think that a bombardment with conventional weapons is necessarily less serious than another bombardment. I'm talking about victims. I am concerned with the extreme chaos, the extreme disorder that has arisen. I don't think you should say: a lot of guns are okay, but a certain weapon is not allowed. It's all horrible. So, if I may be sentimental, this is about people's lives. Every victim that falls is deeply regrettable. With regard to the chemical weapons attacks that Mr Koopmans is talking about, that is indeed a very complex situation, which I see far more nuanced than he is. I don't think it's all proven conclusively that Assad is behind this, even if it's because, of course, he lacks a motive to do so, whereas false flag operations from different rebel groups have an interest in this. I also think that the international investigations that have been carried out are extremely thin. Carla Del Ponte, who was involved, for example, has repeatedly shown bias. Before she saw any evidence, she already pointed the finger at Assad. I am absolutely not convinced that this has happened one-on-one. But even if it were, I don't think you should say that one weapon is bad and the other weapon isn't. We're talking about people's lives here. It's a terrible civil war. And the point is that we all look rationally at how order can be restored, and not constantly set us up again. Then that group is pathetic again and then that group is pathetic again; then we arm it and then we arm it. In the end, we are in the process of sustaining the conflict forever. At some point, someone has to win. Order is better than anarchy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u94	Very briefly, Mr. Koopmans. And also a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u95	I would like Mr Baudet to know much more about Syria than the victims, but he calls me sentimental when I talk about the victims of a chemical attack, victims of genocide, victims of torture. I call him numb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u96	Well, that's hard to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u97	Indeed, it is not a night when Mr Baudet is overflowing with empathy. But suppose we forget the beginning of his speech, because that is actually the finger he would like to fight himself. At the end he said: we must, of course, do something in the short term to help those Kurds a little. Then I'd say, Mr. Baudet, what should we do? All the parties in this Chamber, from left to right and also in the middle, have actually proposed measures. What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u98	This has already been voted on. It's not like we're talking about this for the first time. We supported the proposals to impose sanctions on Turkey. We also supported the proposal that we should not bring money to Turkey in the context of future accession to the European Union, and even say that it is not going to happen. The same applies to NATO. I have argued this for a long time, because those who think ahead are not always surprised by the facts. But this is another proof that it is actually quite absurd that Turkey is still in NATO after the end of the cold war, because those alliances have changed. That's a general point I've been making for a long time. But then we will have to urge Assad to go to the table to get an organisation, a new order, within Syria where the Kurds and other minorities, such as Christians, also have a place and where their position gets a certain recognition. I do not think that can be enforced by sanctions. The only way to do that is to go to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u99	Looking forward is indeed important. I remember a tweet by Mr Baudet in which he praised Trump as the most important leader of the West. Maybe he should be the leader of the whole West. Well, we see what an unimaginable unstable chaos is causing this man in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u100	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u101	Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u102	I insist that I think Trump is a fantastic president and I am very happy that he won the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u103	Mr Baudet, Mr Sjoerdsma had not finished his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u104	This in itself is good to know: it is a fantastic president, a president who is now abandoning Europe, which makes our country more unsafe. Mr Baudet must also acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u105	No, that's bullshit. You just have to defend your own boundaries. Whatever D66 doesn't want, you have to do. We shouldn't look at Trump. We're adults, we're not kids who go to Daddy United States...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u106	Mr. Baudet, he wasn't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u107	Can you check it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u108	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u109	With Mr Baudet you sometimes have the idea that there is a machine running that doesn't stop talking. I'm not sure why. One debate is a bit quieter and in the other it goes on and on. The core, Mr Baudet, is forward-looking. Well, let me ask you something. You want to sit down with a man who, as Mr Koopmans said, has more than half a million dead on his conscience, who has deployed chemical weapons, and you expect a stable Syria to emerge from that conversation. If you blame us all for some kind of misplaced empathy and a lack of realism, I would say: how realistic is it to expect anything of that, Mr Baudet? I'd say not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u110	I really don't see it that way. I dispute that you have to say so clearly that only Assad is responsible for killing and that he alone is responsible for 500,000 people... Of course, that's not true. A chain reaction has been set in motion in Syria. Syria is one of the most liberal states in the Middle East, with the exception of Israel, a country that is the only one in this house to give unconditional support to the Forum for Democracy together with the PVV. Besides that flower of democracy Israel is little to really get very excited about in the Middle East. Syria is an example of a country that has supported Christian minorities all the time, in which women could study, in which all kinds of arts and sciences were practiced. That was a state, a special country, which has been systematically weakened by the West. That has a lot of causes, including an oil pipeline and other things. A chain reaction has then been set in motion, leading to a terrible war, which has been going on for seven to eight years. There have indeed been a lot of casualties in that, but you can't say that's because of him one-on-one. There are also a lot of victims on the right side, the side of Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u111	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u112	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u113	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Why don't you distance yourself from Turkey? What do you think of Erdogan? Where's your loyalty? They are predictable interruptions here in the House of Representatives, followed by the many hate messages I receive after a debate like today. I want to say in all honesty that I do not care. But what stings me is that half a million Turkish Dutch people get out of these questions day in and day out because of the insane Turkey-obsession of Dutch politics and the media. "The men of Erdogan." For example, Ziggo's soccer commentator called the Turkish national team derogatory on TV. A Brabant policeman reads his Twitter and it says: "It is strange to be followed by a policeman of Turkish origin. Is that Erdogan watches you?'. A student from Turkey receives an e-mail from a professor at the University of Amsterdam: "Sorry, we don't want Turks right now." Can anyone imagine what that would do to a boy like that? Half a million Turkish Dutch people have to take the opinion that is pushed down their throats by politics and the media, otherwise they will be thrown away as disloyal. These people don't accept being submissive. These people also have freedom of speech. Why shouldn't these people have an opinion? I ask the Prime Minister whether he also stands for the freedom of people who disagree with him. What are you going to do to eliminate the imported foreign tensions in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. The first victim of a war is the truth. That truth hurts a lot. Hardly anyone has asked me today how the ruins have arisen in Syria. Didn't it start with the dirty Western invasion of Iraq and a war based on lies for oil interests? Didn't the West go after that dirty war like a thief back from Iraq in the night, creating terror organization Daesh? In 2011, didn't the West promise democracy to the Syrian protesters who rebelled against Assad after their Friday prayer in Aleppo? And where was the West when Assad killed his own citizens with poison gas? Mr. Chairman. Eventually, the whole world came to Syria. That was not because of the Syrians or to help them, and certainly not to restore security and stability in the region. This is demonstrated by the fact that more than half a million people are dead and nearly 7 million people are fleeing. The United States came to secure oil deals. Russia wanted America to have no monopoly. The Netherlands and the West dropped bombs on Syria and made a deal with Turkey, with the aim: we no longer want refugees. They wanted to keep refugees out of the door. And now this NATO ally is abandoned; a NATO ally who takes care of nearly 4 million refugees. You must then imagine that we have 100,000 in the Netherlands. 4 million refugees are being received and now we are abandoning that ally. That ally has also been facing terrorist attacks by the PKK and the YPG for 40 years. And here we are extremely afraid of the possibility of an attack. That's nothing but a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u115	Abandoning an ally? It is an ally who abandons the other allies and puts our security at risk. What does Mr Kuzu think of the fact that Turkey has illegally attacked, deployed and occupied another country? There were bombings on villages and cities. Innocent civilians have fallen and schools have been bombed. How does Mr Kuzu feel about that? Is that what he's saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u116	Let me be clear about this: I reject any attempt on civilian targets. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I find it very sad that civilian casualties are also taking place during a war. At the same time, I say that this situation is not new in that region. For 40 years, we have seen the PKK and the associated YPG, supported by a number of parties in this Chamber, carrying out attacks in Turkey. For 40 years there has been an unstable situation. There was even a motion in this Chamber asking the Dutch government to help the YPG, by chance by the one who is interrupting me now. The YPG is an organisation of which the government itself has indicated that it is associated with the terrorist organization PKK. This is in line with the standards of the Netherlands, the EU and the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u117	He's rejecting Turkey's illegal invasion. He says he didn't, but I just heard him say that. If he doesn't, he better...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u118	No, then Mr Voordewind should listen better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u119	At least he's been bombing innocent civilians...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u120	You can read the Acts later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u121	No, not mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u122	At least he's condemned the bombing of innocent civilians. Then let me ask the second question. Does he therefore reject Turkey's illegal invasion of Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u123	Let me be clear about that. I have said that I deeply regret every civilian victim who falls into a war. That's what we've worked hard for, even in the past. We're seeing numbers on civilian casualties. Civilian casualties are just terribly annoying. We're very sorry about that. Then I want to take a firm stand. Mr Voordewind asks whether I condemn an illegal attack by Turkey on Syria. I will say: it may be illegal according to the standards of the Christian Union and according to the standards of a number of political parties here. I have not seen a UN resolution calling this attack illegal. I did not see in the EU declaration the words 'illegal invasion' in it. According to the Christian Union, it could be illegal. I haven't seen an international institute that called it that way, and I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u124	Mr Kuzu read the EU declaration. There is clearly a condemnation of Turkey's invasion of Syria. The only fact why it has not yet led to a conviction in the Security Council, as Mr Kuzu knows, is that Russia's ally will always block it. My question is not what the UN thinks, but what Mr Kuzu thinks of this attack, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u125	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u126	Let me finish. It is claimed by Turkey that this attack would be legal. They even refer to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. There would be bombings and threats from northern Syria to Turkey. Does Mr Kuzu have the same evidence from Turkey? If not, is he prepared to condemn Turkey's attack on Syria with about the entire Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u127	I'm not gonna do that last one. Let me be clear about that. Just now, Mr Voordewind's question was whether I could call it illegal invasion. He dropped that word "illegal" in his third question. I want to make it clear what the UN is saying. I have not yet seen the resolution. We do have standards with which we work. I haven't seen that yet. I haven't seen it in any other international legal organization. So who am I to call that illegal? Mr Voordewind does. We don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u128	You are a member of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u129	Good thing you remind me of that, Mr. Klaver, because I forgot for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u130	You are a member of the House of Representatives. You say, "Who am I to judge?" That's exactly why we're here together. The question is actually quite clear. I think you're going around that. It is really about the question: do we think that Turkey should have done this raid in Syria? Is that what you're saying? You go around it, but when I hear you like this, I can hardly help but conclude that you are okay with Turkey doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u131	That's what I said. I do not condemn the raid because Turkey has legitimate security concerns about the south-east of Turkey. I will comment on that later in my speech. The region has been plagued for 40 years and I think I have said this very clearly by attacks, by terrorist attacks from the terrorist organisation PKK. The branch associated with the PKK, which operates from Syria, is the YPG. I didn't say that. That is what Minister Blok said, as Minister Zijlstra said at the time. That's what all international law institutions say. Trump said that. I'm not saying that's the most reliable guy, but well, Trump said the same thing. We can see that this is the case. Just as part of the Chamber here says that we must guard Europe's external borders, I think it is legitimate for Turkey to have the right to guard its borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u132	I have had many clashes with Mr Rutte on how to defend Europe's external borders, but I have never caught him trying to invade Libya, Turkey or one of those countries. Now I see him laughing like he's thinking, you don't want to know what I've been thinking about. To pretend to invade a country is the same as defending your external borders is too easy. There's a pretty big difference between invading a country and protecting your borders. At the same time, we know that the United Nations has said: we have observed war crimes here. What does Mr Kuzu say to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u133	It's terrible that war crimes have been observed. At the same time, I am also saying that the romantic image that some of the Chamber represents here in 2015 was also challenged by Amnesty. The whole Chamber is talking about the YPG as a fantastic organization that has helped us in the fight against ISIS. But have you also taken note of what Amnesty International has said about this in various reports? I can look it up for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u134	I am trying to understand Mr Kuzu's tone. He's almost mad at the room. He almost blames us for being critical of what Turkey is doing. But it's destabilizing what Turkey does. It is a danger to safety here in Europe, to the Netherlands. Human rights are now being violated. War crimes are being committed. And I actually hear Mr Kuzu say here: it is fine what Turkey is doing and we need to understand more about Erdogan. In fact, he does not understand in any way that we are all so critical of Turkey here. To be perfectly honest, I find that strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u135	I can repeat it again. I find it odd that Mr Klaver's speech did not address the circumstances in which this is taking place; no Member of Parliament did so. I outline the situation of a country that has been plagued by terrorist attacks for 40 years. 40,000 people were killed, including civilian casualties. At that time, not so many parliamentary debates were held in a few weeks' time. There wasn't a live blog for five days. Mr. Chairman. I am not the one who gets angry easily, but I can see that this discussion is being highlighted from only one side. I'm trying to highlight it from a different perspective here. I also know that's not popular. But coming back to Mr Klaver's question about whether the YPG is an organization of sweethearts: look at Lama Fakih, senior crisis advisor at Amnesty International. I will give you this Amnesty report so that you can see what terrible things are in it, so that you can see what happened in that war zone. Where was Mr Klaver then and at that time to ask for debates, to have strong criticism, to table resolutions and to make proposals for sanctions? Nowhere! That is one-sided and that is not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u136	A point of correction, Mr President. This is a point that Mr Kuzu was very anxious to make. I didn't ask any questions about YPG and if they were sweethearts. Those aren't my words, so don't put them in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u137	In response, I would like to point out that Mr Klaver asked me about the situation with regard to human rights violations. Unfortunately, that happens, but it does happen on two sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u138	If you listen to Mr Kuzu, the impression might arise that there is a certain perspective, that you argue from a certain group and that it then determines what you stand for. The perspective leading this Chamber and also leading our constitution is that of the international legal order and human rights. There's consistency in that, too. I would nevertheless like to refer this consistency to Mr Kuzu, because he is right to draw attention to the situation in which Israeli soldiers are shooting at Gazans. He is right to draw attention to when terrible war crimes are taking place there. He rightly condemns that, by the way, with me. I would ask him to be consistent if Turkey does so clearly, as has been established by the United Nations, and to defend the same international legal order and human rights equally firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u139	That's very clear. I will. I'm very consistent with that, too. I will also expect the same consistent attitude from the Chamber. When it comes to the Rohingya, for example, a section of this Chamber, including D66, considers it very important that we do personal actions that the Myanmari civilian population is not going to notice. In the current debate on Turkey, this nuance of D66 has suddenly been lost: we must take firm sanctions. We need to hit Erdogan hard. I have not heard Mr Sjoerdsma at all about what he said during the debate on Rohingya and Myanmar: the Myanmari civilian population must not be affected, Myanmari companies must not be affected and personalised actions must be put in place. I'm listening to two different tones. I find that inconsistent and actually deeply sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u140	It's a bit of Mr. Kuzu's predictable whirlwind. If you ask him a question, you'll get a you-bake back. I would like to answer this briefly. My group has supported these sanctions against the Rohingya, my group has brought them in, my group believes that there is a major problem with the military companies, my group has called for the withdrawal of trade liberalisations and, yes, that is consistent. But now back to Mr Kuzu. Mr Kuzu says: I am not going to condemn that. It is of course unfortunate that war crimes are being committed, but so is the other party, so perhaps I should look the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u141	That's a caricature that's being put here right now. It is a caricature and I object to it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u142	What you need to do, Mr. Kuzu, and what you would adorn, especially after you pretended to be attacked a little bit, when that was not the case at all. This is illegal. We shouldn't accept this. Stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u143	Can you imagine, I am really very pleased that Mr Sjoerdsma is doing this, that a coalition party, a D66 chamber member, is telling me what to do? Can you imagine a D66 room member saying to me "just say so"? Those days are over. I will not be ordered by a D66 chamber member, or by any other MP, to do what I say or do. With regard to the situation which is now before us and which is on the agenda, I would like to say very clearly that I am sorry about what is happening. At the same time, I see a country that has been facing a threat for 40 years. I see that several attacks have been taking place in Turkey for years. We in the Netherlands are already very hesitant about the possibility of an attack! It doesn't happen there every day, but it happens all the time. I would also like to say to Mr Sjoerdsma: that is a special circumstance. Because when there is an attack here in the Netherlands, in France or in Germany, we take everything out of the closet to fight terrorism. That is also my appeal: we must fight terrorism. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u144	Perhaps Mr Kuzu suffers from post-traumatic stress from the period in which he was still in a coalition party; that is possible. I am indeed in no position to give him an order. I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u145	Then what are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u146	He shouldn't pretend to be some kind of... It is a strange figure of style that Mr Kuzu is now using in order not to have to answer. I say to you, Mr Kuzu: if we fight together for human rights and international law, everywhere in the world, we must do so consistently. If you don't, you make yourself vulnerable to all kinds of other countries that say: you do a here and you do b there, so go somewhere else with your criticism and your convictions; we don't have to listen to you. I would like to say to you: don't do that, because it doesn't please you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u147	This is just a slightly different tone from the tone Mr Sjoerdsma just chose. I believe that I have been very clear in my condemnations of civilian casualties and human rights violations. I can see that this is happening, unfortunately. I'm sorry to see that happens all the time. I can also see that this happens on the other hand. I've been watching the news for days. It is really exposed from one side and the other side is completely omitted. That is the balance that I would like to bring to the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u149	Mr. Chairman. What do we see happening? I was just talking about the NATO ally being abandoned. What does the ally do? It's arming terrorists from the PKK and the YPG. If that were said before, you'd be a conspiracy thinker, but Trump has now openly admitted it. My question is: why does the West, including the Netherlands, coddle these terrorists? Do you know that the PKK has been causing death and destruction for decades with cowardly terrorist attacks? The whole world will be there for self-interest. A neighbouring country has an obvious security interest, as NATO boss Stoltenberg recently pointed out. Then it is not strange that a country that does not steal and takes measures? Our government, the European Union, the United States and the United Nations also see the PKK as a terrorist organisation and the YPG as a branch of the PKK. Nevertheless, I see in the reports, but also in the terms of the Members of Parliament, that this is an attack on Kurds, which hits me the hardest. This is not an attack on Kurds, despite the fact that a number of media and a number of MPs in particular are trying to make people believe this. I think that many people in the Netherlands do not know that there are 15 to 20 million Kurds living in Turkey. Kurds and Turks live together peacefully and are each other's neighbours, uncles, aunts and friends. The West should finally take responsibility. The EU should not threaten sanctions, but should work with the ally to bring peace and tranquillity back to that region. That means you have to make a fist together against terror and fight terrorists together, whether they're called Daesh, the PKK, YPG or SDF. The enemy of your enemy is not your friend, terror is terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u150	I am actually listening to Mr Kuzu with increasing amazement. He's talking about "terror is terror." Islamic State, that was terror. That's terror. There are people who are so brave, we weren't all here, but those were the people there, elsewhere, for that struggle... Mr Kuzu shakes of no, but I thought he did. Those people were so brave to fight the barbarism of the Islamic State. How dare you? Really, how dare at this moment about those people, who have risked their own lives for our security and who have stood up to the barbarism of Islamic State, say such big words? How dare you call them terrorists? How dare you, laughing, talk about these people like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u151	We're known for our guts. I'll tell you exactly what's going on. IS, Daesh, is on exactly the same list of terrorist organizations as the PKK. The last sentence of my contribution was: the enemy of your enemy is not your friend, terror is terror. Mrs Marijnissen should not pretend to be all Kurds of the YPG or of the PKK. Those are the people who are most affected by the terror of these organisations. How dare I? By looking at the information, in fact. I say it again: the PKK is a terrorist organization. You should also know and acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u152	I think Mr Erdogan is proud of Mr Kuzu when he hears him so convincingly keep this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u153	I'd still like to ask you not to clap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u154	I would like to put a question to Mr Kuzu. He said he also regrets civilian casualties. He said, I believe, that he feels that innocent people are being murdered there at the moment. Let's just put it this way. Does Mr Kuzu think that Turkey should withdraw at the moment and seek a political solution to a problem of which you are referring to another side? It's okay. That's your right. But do you think that Turkey should at least stop doing what it is doing and withdraw and find a political solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u155	I would like to comment on the first part of Mrs Marijnissen's interruption. I started my contribution just now with the standard clichés that are thrown at me during such a debate: distance from Turkey; what do you think of Erdogan? And now Mrs. Marijnissen tells me Erdogan would be proud of me. I am not doing it, but if I were to say to her 'the terrorist organisation PKK would be proud of you, Mrs Marijnissen, because of what you are doing here today, namely calling for a terrorist organisation and for a destabilisation of a region that has been plagued for decades by enormous problems, which you are putting in the shoes of one country and one person in a few days' time', that would be too easy. I'll keep my distance from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u157	Oh, the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u158	I just can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u159	Yes, the second part of the question. That's kind of interesting. I am always in favour of a political solution, but if Mrs Marijnissen explains in advance that the conclusion of the political solution is to withdraw, I say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u160	The idea of a political solution is to put down the weapons, stop an illegal invasion, stop violating human rights and stop killing a people. That is useful in itself if you want to come to a political solution. I therefore note that Mr Kuzu is not even prepared to do so. He still says that he finds it annoying that civilian casualties are being suffered, but he does not want to argue in favour of doing something about it, by calling on Turkey to withdraw and seek a political solution, and perhaps there can also be attention to that side of the story. You don't even want to argue that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u161	A political solution is a solution which must be supported by several parties. There is then input for this and there are a number of facets to this. One of them is indeed that you put the guns down. But there are a number of conditions for that. The SP places the condition on the geopolitical negotiating table that there should be a withdrawal, but that is already a judgment. It may be a result, but it doesn't have to be in advance. When it comes to stopping human rights violations, and when it comes to stopping civilian casualties, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u162	So that is not Mr Kuzu, because that is the order of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u163	If I say it is, why does Mrs Marijnissen say it is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u164	Because you refuse to convict Turkey...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u165	But look, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u166	... and because you refuse to call on Turkey to withdraw!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u167	But that's it. That's the problem. Why am I being forced here again by a Member of Parliament to find something or do something? I just don't! We're not!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u168	Mr. Kuzu, perhaps because you are here in the Dutch Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u169	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u170	...and because there's a so-called NATO ally of ours...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u171	Frame three, where is your loyalty? That always happens in this Chamber when we talk about these kinds of subjects. I need to distance myself from Erdogan. I must distance myself from Turkey. And if I don't, if I indicate the perspective of half a million Turkish Dutchmen, then my loyalty will be questioned. I think it's outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u172	I find it scandalous how Mr Kuzu thinks he can escape a very legitimate discussion here in the Dutch Parliament, by diving into the victim role. There's no one here at all, Mr. Kuzu...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u173	Frame four: victim role!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u174	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u175	There's no one here to appeal to your loyalty. I didn't use that word. I address you as a Dutch representative of the people. I ask you how you feel that Turkey is doing an illegal invasion at the moment, and that a so-called NATO ally of the Netherlands, Turkey, is doing something that puts us all at risk of security. You refuse to convict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u176	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u177	And when I ask you if you want to find a political solution...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u178	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u179	... and whether or not you would like to call on Turkey to stop violating human rights... Then let me make it so basic. Would you call on Turkey to stop violating human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u180	But I've been saying that all along, haven't I? I say very clearly: let us stop making civilian casualties, let us stop human rights violations, over and over again. But then when I'm told "I speak to you as a Dutch representative" Mr. Baudet also had a solid story, didn't he? I did not hear you say that to Mr Baudet: say that from the perspective of a Dutch representative. Mr President, I find it scandalous. I find it scandalous that... I'm just being ethnically profiled here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u181	Ah, come on, Mr. Kuzu!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u182	And the minute you come up...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u183	And the moment you stand up for your rights and stand up for your opinion, it's: you're a victim. Mr President, I reject that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u184	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u185	Finally, Mr President. What I find scandalous is that Mr Kuzu is running away from his responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u186	Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u187	He dives and uses big words like ethnic profiling and loyalty. But those words didn't fall here at all, and none of you, Mr. Kuzu, ask anyone at all. But people are right to ask you here, at least I ask you to accept your responsibility as a representative of the people and to speak out about an illegal invasion of a so-called NATO ally of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u188	Mr. Öztürk, stop yelling. I hear you all the way out here! Mrs. Marijnissen, you weren't finished. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to Mr Kuzu for his responsibility as a representative of the people here in Parliament. If he says 'I am not prepared to divide Turkey', 'I am not prepared to condemn the illegal invasion', 'I am not even prepared to call on Turkey to withdraw and to seek a political solution', then his words are that he finds it so annoying and that there are civilian casualties, not worth anything at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u190	Yes, that could be Mrs Marijnissen's interpretation. I kind of expected that, too. But again some parts. The illegal invasion: illegal according to the SP, the Christian Union and perhaps many more parties here in this Chamber. I have yet to see the resolution calling it illegal. That's one. Two, I think it's a very clear story. I reject human rights violations and civilian casualties. At the same time, however, I do not hear a single word of criticism of the attacks that have been taking place for years in the south-east of Turkey from the SP side, just like several parties here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u191	Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that it is extremely annoying that Mr Öztürk is always yelling through the Chamber. We are here in the Dutch Parliament and we are not used to anyone's. Let's get this over with. Mr Kuzu is man enough and does not need a squire in the room. Mr Kuzu, I think that many people who follow this are a little shocked, because they feel that it seems that the Turkish story is simply being put forward here without any nuance. My question is whether you understand that feeling. Why do you not put forward the perspective that lives in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u192	I followed the news last week with a great deal of interest. You also know from me that this is the first time I have participated in a debate on this subject. I have tried to follow what is being said in the Dutch news. I have also followed what has been said in the Turkish news. I see there are two totally different worlds. Mr President, I hear part of the Chamber shouting "joy," but that also means that the side that provides us with news is also coloured. That's what I tell all those people who say "joy." That side's colored, too. I do not know where the truth lies, but I do know that a number of standard frames are being used here in the Dutch Parliament. But that also happens to Turkish Dutch people who are questioned daily about these kinds of discussions. In this respect, as representatives of the people, I would say to Mr van der Staaij that we should speak with facts and not with words as 'an attack against the Kurds'. I was just trying to indicate that there are 20 million Kurds living in Turkey during my contribution. Turkey is not attacking those 20 million people. We are talking about the north-east of Syria, where a number of terrorist movements are active that do not respect Turkey's borders and carry out regular attacks involving deaths and many injuries, including on the civilian side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u193	Mr President, finally, as I listen to Mr Kuzu in this way, I fear that the amount of interruptions will not help us to agree more. He's about to start his story tonight with Turkey being abandoned by the West.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u194	I didn't start with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u195	Pretty early in your story that came up. Does he understand that this is more a total breakdown of communication, rather than the achievement of its objective, namely to draw attention to the fact that there is also a problem experienced in Turkey for the sake of nuance? Again, I would like to see him, from his knowledge of things from there in Turkey but also from his experience in the Netherlands, looking for something more to achieve the real good conversation instead of actually bringing forward the Turkish story very loudly here, because that only gives a lot of alienation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u196	I welcome Mr Van der Staaij's appeal. He knows me a little longer than he does today. I would like to have that conversation with him, and I would like to have that conversation here in Parliament. If you look back at my contribution, you will see that I have started with the concerns of Turkish Dutch people here, that day in, day out, being questioned about geopolitical issues they haven't eaten cheese from at all, which is just complex, which is just complicated. I see what's happening in Rotterdam. Groups of people face each other and lust each other raw through different events. That hurts me. That's what I'm worried about. I can see that the tensions in society are increasing enormously. That has to do with our use of words. We need to be nuanced about that. So you will never hear me say that all Kurds hate Turks, or that Turks attack the Kurds. That's ridicul, of course. I hope that we can continue to discuss this with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u197	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u198	First of all, I should like to express my sympathy for Mr Kuzu's position in this matter. I think he's being put in the corner very badly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u199	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u200	... by the members of the cartel. I also sympathize with his scepticism about the mainstream media in the Netherlands, which are indeed very colourful, being very one-sided, not only about the situation in the Middle East, but also about the situation in the United States, for example. Just the fact that no one here can imagine that Trump is an excellent president on many points already indicates that. They have no idea. They just read their fables every morning, and that's got to be it. My question is whether you can clarify something about something that has been very little in the Dutch press, but what I understand in the Turkish press is very much apparent, at least in the international press. That is the point that Erdogan makes in defence of these actions, namely that he wants a large part of those Syrian refugees to go back. He is actually saying that the groups in that strip of about 30 kilometres on the border with Turkey make that unsafe. Can you explain that to me? How do you see that? Is Mr Erdogan right about that or not, or part of it? How's that? Because the return of Syrian refugees is something in which, despite all the differences, we can find each other, also from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u201	Mr Baudet undoubtedly knows as well as I do that we currently have 101,000 refugees in the Netherlands; 101,000 refugees, at the end of 2018, we have in the Netherlands. Only in Turkey we are dealing with 3.6 million Syrian refugees. When many Syrian refugees moved to Europe in 2015, the Netherlands was too small. There were debates here in this Chamber that were aimed at keeping all those people there. A ransom was paid to Turkey in order not to let the Syrian refugees go any further. I can well imagine that at some point, also because of the economic and political situation, a limit will be reached, indicating: how can we make it as good as possible? At the same time, however, this must be done in accordance with international law standards; that is what I am testing in Mr Baudet's question. As far as we are concerned, the principle of non-refoulement is very important. It's not like people can be pushed away and put away. That must be done on the basis of perspective and hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u202	Okay, but actually... Is it right in Mr Kuzu's view, or is it right, that the group of Kurds in particular who are in the region, which is 30 kilometres away, makes it impossible for Turkey to return Syrian refugees? Because that's the argument Erdogan gives himself. He says the order is restored in Syria. That is right, that is why we also want the Syrians to return from the Netherlands, but that aside. He says that we want these people to go back, and that is why we are carrying out these charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u203	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u204	Is that true in Mr Kuzu's eyes or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u205	That is also what Lama Fakih, the senior crisis advisor of Amnesty International indicates. She says that in 2015, during her visit and the factfinding mission she carried out there, total villages were moved and population groups were relocated. I can very well imagine that in the 32 km zone the original inhabitants can go back if they so wish and if that perspective is offered to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u206	Is it or is it not, in Mr Kuzu's view I am simply asking this without me setting up a trap or so that Erdogan is right that that group of Kurds sitting there makes it impossible for the 3 million Syrian refugees to return to Syria? Is it true that if they go through that zone, they get attacked or stopped, all that sort of thing? Isn't it? 'Cause if it really was true that that danger was there, I might understand his perspective better. If that is not the case, however, and until now I am not convinced that it is a very disproportionate and incomprehensible action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u207	What is clear is that it has always been the wish of a certain group in Northeast Syria to establish an autonomous state there. We see that a lot. Different names are also used. As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't exist on the map. Mr Baudet certainly has a point in that regard. So I can follow him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u208	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u209	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u210	Mr. Chairman. In the division of roles, Ank Bijleveld, the Minister of Defence, will immediately address the humanitarian aid for refugees, the efforts for a ceasefire through the UN, Article 5, the impact of the NLA programme, the security situation in the camps Al-Roj and Al-Hol, the Dutch mothers, the possible link with the Greek Cypriot issue or the Cyprus issue, the Act of Criminalisation residence terrorist area and Erdogan's threat to open the gate. Those questions will be answered by Mrs Bijleveld in a moment. First of all, let me say that a very large majority of this Chamber now condemns what is happening and that this is also true of the Dutch Government. We also discussed it yesterday in a different composition in the debate on the European Council. The humanitarian consequences are terrible. The operation endangers the fight against ISIS, damages stability in the region and has far-reaching humanitarian consequences; they have been discussed extensively in the Chamber. We are reading the reports on the civilian victims, the many, perhaps hundreds of thousands of displaced persons and clear needs such as water scarcity and closed hospitals, as well as the reports on ISIS fighters and family members from a camp; I will return to them in a moment. If I add all that up, the picture is extremely worrying and a conviction is definitely in place here. Let me also make it domestic, because a question has been asked as to what this means for our country, inland, the debate here nationally. I do not mean here in the Chamber, but in society, also because of the reports from Rotterdam tonight. Can I say it again here? This is a country where you can demonstrate, a country where freedom of speech applies, but also a country where we do so civilisedly. We're sticking to the law. The screaming of one can never be at the expense of being heard, must never lead to the not being heard of the other. The government will protect that, too. I would also like to say here that freedom of expression and demonstration can only be achieved if we in this country resolve social conflicts through dialogue, through respect and not through the images from Rotterdam tonight. I haven't been able to see any more of that, I say immediately, then on the websites. Since I was in the debate, I have not been able to have contact with the authorities in Rotterdam. Anyway, we've seen it and it's absolutely unacceptable. Apart from that situation, we need to go into that further.The cabinet is taking action and supporting municipalities and communities to prevent tensions. I say this partly in response to Mr Krol's question. Anyone who feels threatened can, of course, press charges. But again, the most important thing is to conduct the debate properly. We saw a few years ago that the coup d'état in Turkey led to tensions here in society. At that time, we managed to manage them together. We're gonna have to do that now. We have many people in the Netherlands who are Dutch, but still feel involved in Turkey or feel involved in the Kurdish affair. They may all express themselves, but once again, with respect. The only way is to get out of a dialogue with each other. Otherwise, the state must intervene with the swordpower, as seems to have happened in Rotterdam this evening. Mr. Chairman. The Foreign Affairs Council and the General Affairs Council met on Monday and Tuesday. I said it yesterday in the debate on the European Council. I had Stef Blok, the Foreign Minister, on the phone on Monday morning. It didn't look good. He had been on the phone with everyone all weekend and said: if I look over the force field, there will be no condemnation or a very weak one, and I do not expect us to make much progress on the arms embargo. Fortunately, on Monday, more happened than we feared, but it is not enough. I agree with everyone here who says that more needs to be done, but I also look at what threatened Monday morning, namely that progress on these two points would be insufficient. I think we have to establish that there is at least that conviction. I would like the arms embargo to be tightened up, so that will also be my general point. There will be another European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. If I see any chance at all, of course, I will talk to many people about this, and I think there is a possibility of really reaching other decisions, which are also very close to the French, for example, who have already expressed their concern about the lack of ambition of last Monday, then we will do so. I will at least speak to the French President before the European Council begins tomorrow, but I will also try to make contact with others. That is an effort obligation. I have to tell you, I'm not very happy about that. Or cheerful anyway, but I'm not very positive about how much is going to work. I'm gonna make the most of it. You can count on that, because we agree here that more needs to be done. But it does not make much sense for me to say here that Europe is doing too little now if I cannot offer you the certainty or the certainty that I will succeed. And I can't do that right now, because my political assessment of the force field is that it won't be easy to get much further. I'd like to say here that I'm going to try to do that. That's not, as I may have said yesterday, a little unhappy, waiting for me to see a hole somewhere. That's not what I mean at all. That means, of course, actively seeing for myself what I can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u211	The Prime Minister refers to the discussion at EU level last Monday. I have a question about that. The Foreign Minister initially did not intend to travel to that conversation, but rather wanted to join on a trade mission to India. The Minister's coalition partners have defined this as an apathetic attitude of our foreign minister. I also hear from the Prime Minister: I would have liked to get more out of it myself, but I am not optimistic about it. My question is very specific, given all the misery, all the suffering and the strong condemnation here in the House of Representatives of the illegal invasion of Turkey in Northern Syria, why the cabinet is not acting more decisively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u212	This is bullshit to me. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has been working since last week, intensively he has also written to the Chamber about being in touch with everyone, in Europe and beyond, to ensure that we can build coalitions to get things done. He also has conflicting interests. He also had to go to the state visit in India. He finally decided not to do so and to go to the Councils in Europe on Monday. I do not want to exaggerate, but I am allowed to say here, on the basis of what I have been linked back from various sources, that his presence there and the fact that he was in the process of building these coalitions in advance have contributed, I say not decisively, because you can never determine exactly who is doing what and has been important to achieve at least much more than we thought in advance. So that whole word "apathetic," I can't do anything with that. It doesn't make any sense. I really want to make that clear. At least I'll have lost it. Then that is also my list of irritations for tonight and further I am happy, except on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u213	I am happy to pass it on to the Prime Minister's coalition partners, because from the coalition the definition of "apathetic" came to the Foreign Minister. I'd still like to ask the Prime Minister about this. He says he thinks it's too easy, but I don't think anything in this debate tonight is easy. I don't want to pretend that at all. The question is, what more can the cabinet do than it is doing now? I think that's quite something to make sure that something really happens towards Turkey. My question is therefore, for example, whether the Prime Minister is prepared to take up this discussion with Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the European Union with a number of other European leaders, if it is not possible to maintain the unity, to form a leading group and thus to go on the road to ensure that there are strong sanctions towards Turkey. Or are you still waiting for the unity of Europe, the European Union, to come? Then maybe we can wait a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u214	I don't think there's much point in me selling bullshit here and raising expectations that can't. If then the conclusion is 'he does too little', I leave it to Mrs Marijnissen. But it's not true. We do a lot of things. One of the problems here is that whether it is the 1977 Sanction Act, which sets clear limits on what you can do bilaterally, or all kinds of things that affect our trade relationship with Turkey, it will have to be done at EU level. You can't do that with a few countries. This requires European joint action, and very often it is also under the umbrella of unanimity. That's why these coalitions need to be carefully built. It is not enough, but that is why I am pleased that at least we have managed to get that conviction and to make firm agreements on the supply of arms. I want them even firmer, but they're already solid. De facto, this is an embargo on arms supplies of that type. I want to move on, because there are a lot of questions I have to answer about this. Maybe I can do that first and then Mrs Marijnissen can come back. Maybe that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u215	Yeah, I'm fine. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u216	Because it's not that easy to do things in there alone. The question was, for example, how can it be that Turkey has been given weapons for so long? I cannot give a 100% guarantee from the Netherlands, and I would also say to Mrs Marijnissen... that no Kurdish fighters are being fought with Dutch weapons, but the chances are very small, because the Netherlands has been testing very strict export requests to Turkey for a long time, for years. Authorisations have only been granted for goods that have been subject to rigorous testing, so they do not pose a risk to regional stability, among other things. Most of those permits were for the Turkish Navy. Then you talk about radar components, ship supply systems or non-usable goods, such as test reports or decontamination equipment. That at that point. I see Mrs Marijnissen, but I will finish the section on sanctions, Mr President. 'Cause I really have more on that. Then the question was what else you could do. That was also a question that was asked from the circle of the VVD. I would like to assure you that I will take the suggestion that has been made from the point of view of Mr Koopmans. I am going to ask the Commission to map out exactly how these money flows are going. At least we know about one. That was tried by Blok on Monday but failed. This has to do with pre-accession support for Turkey, but we are going to see if there are more money flows. As a result, I would like to come back to Mr Klaver's question about the EIB. There are indeed EIB loans to Turkey. A first assessment is that these are important for private parties, so we have to make that weighting with each other. We also need to map out exactly what can be done with the European Investment Bank. I am not going to ask the Commission to do that; we are going to find out for ourselves. We will then try to answer that in one letter to the Chamber. It seems that you have European policy frameworks for this that are probably also covered by QMV or unanimity, but there are things in there that are possible. We're gonna map that out. In order to give the right answer to Mr Koopmans' request to map that, I would like to include that in the question about the EIB. At the same point was asked what more can be done. I have already said that you can look at other things, such as the customs union. You can look at the accession negotiations themselves. Last Monday it was absolutely estimated that if an attempt had been made to push the customs union or accession negotiations hard, we would have said wonderful things if the Netherlands had said wonderful things, you would all have said 'fantastic', but that it would have ultimately undermined the opportunity to reach a verdict and to reach agreement on arms exports. But they're in the palette, they're on the organ and they're not gone as far as I'm concerned either. In the coming days, too, customs union, accession negotiations, pre-accessional fees and the further tightening of the arms embargo are instruments that I have in the back pocket. A motion was also tabled yesterday with a whole list of suggestions, of which I do not even know whether they were adopted. So we've got that one, too. The coordination is part of the same issue. That was a question from Mr Van Helvert. Yeah, eventually you're gonna have to tune this with the U.S.A. But a leading group of countries does not work simply because you will have to have unanimity in Europe for many of these kinds of sanctions, especially when it comes to trade relations. Moreover, we also have legislation on this issue, including in the Netherlands. That is why we really need to make sure that we see what we can do together. So first I want to see how we can get as far as we can in Europe. But I agree with Van Helvert that you should then merge that with what we do with the Americans as soon as possible. If I think I can make a contribution to that, I'll run forward and I'll do it. But even here, my ego doesn't apply. If I think it's wiser that we do that with a few people or that someone else does it because of the relationship with America, then someone else has to. So I do not want the form to be guiding here, but the call is understood, namely: if there are possibilities for that, then we will seize it. The same is true of Mr Koopman's report on the end of the accession negotiations. Of course, this has been argued for many times, but that also requires unanimity. So far, there has been no support, as you know. If I put it in the priority, I would like to tighten up the arms embargo, as would IPA, EIB and find out what else there are for money flows. I also have yesterday's motion, which specifically mentions a few things, but also the customs union and the accession negotiations. That whole package's here. I am not going to give the impression that I can do this or that the Netherlands will come back next week with the announcement: now all this is settled. The conviction's here. There is also de facto an arms embargo. In itself, that's more than we thought on Monday. We will continue to fight for more, but here again in such a way that we can make the best possible chance of achieving it. So much for the arms embargo and other possibilities for sanctions against Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u217	Mr. Sjoerdsma. Oh, Mrs. Marijnissen would come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u218	If Mrs. Marijnissen comes, I'll show her up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u219	Thank you. The Prime Minister states that he cannot give a 100% guarantee here tonight, if I quote his words correctly, that we are not immediately watching CNN and perhaps see a Dutch truck passing by. I find that really shocking, I find that shocking. It is brought here as a kind of communication: well, that is some kind of collateral damage, unfortunately but unfortunately. Human rights are being grossly violated there at the moment. The idea alone that Dutch material would be helpful to that, is disgusting and unacceptable. If the Prime Minister cannot give that guarantee tonight, because is he going to do so now to prevent it? What's he gonna do to find out if that's the case at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u220	By the way, we are talking about arms supplies to Turkey. So we're not talking about this non-lethal aid program here. The Secretary of Defense will return to that in a moment. We are talking here about Mrs Marijnissen's question on arms supplies to Turkey. You can never give 100 percent guarantees, but the odds are extremely small. Why? Because the Netherlands has been pursuing a very strict policy for years, and because most of these permits are intended for the Turkish Navy, which is obviously not involved in this conflict right now. But you can never give 100 percent guarantees. It seems impossible to me to call the Turks now to ask which Dutch weapons they use. I don't think they're gonna say anything right now. But, of course, if we had the chance to clarify that further, we will try to do so. But I don't think it's possible right now. Again, there should be no impression that all kinds of Dutch equipment is now being used by the Turks. That chance is extremely small, but I cannot give a hundred percent guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u221	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u222	We are going to talk about these support groups. But I find it really shocking, because the Prime Minister, in my view, goes too easily over it by saying: we cannot call the Turks. You can do research, can't you? You were also able to decide that those weapons could be delivered at some point? We have already proposed an arms embargo on Turkey much earlier. After all, this illegal invasion is not the first time that Turkey has done so. No matter how terrible, it doesn't fall completely from the sky and can't be a complete surprise. So I find it really shocking that we are having a debate tonight with a Prime Minister who says: what is happening there is completely illegal and we condemn it, but perhaps even Dutch material is helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u223	My words are distorted after all. I said that the chances are very, very small, but I cannot give a 100% guarantee. I have also outlined the type of equipment that has been delivered. Given that type of equipment, it is obvious that I come to the verdict: that chance is very small.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u224	I just want to see if I heard the Prime Minister right. He just prioritized what he wants to fight for each other. I think he wants to tighten the arms embargo a little bit, and then there's a whole bunch of other things coming up. Is that the priority the Prime Minister has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u225	No. Here, of course, I, Blok and others who are also diplomatically involved are going to try to continue to support further measures. I don't want to put any hard prioritization into that right now. However, I believe that tightening up the arms embargo is something we would all like to see. Maybe we can. I can't give you any guarantees, but maybe I can. But other than that, I don't want to prioritize. I did mention the elements. The motion that was tabled yesterday, I am not quite ready. I don't even know if it was accepted or not, but that listing was actually fine. But I also mentioned the customs union, the accession negotiations and the other elements that I brought in when it comes to what you could do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u226	I think that's important, because that arms embargo is some kind of basis. You're not making it worse, and it's good to do that, but that won't convince Turkey and Erdogan to stop what they're doing. If the Prime Minister says "this is the menu I have in my pocket and I'm going to try to get an absolute majority for each of these parts," I think it's absolutely beautiful. But if that does not work, I would also like to know which countries are blocking it, as with the Foreign Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u227	I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u228	I think it should be, because it is stuck within the European Union at some point on Trojan horses, which have different interests than most of the Member States. I refer to Hungary on some points. I refer to Greece on some points. It must be clear that there are costs for them to block such measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u229	That can only be done if it comes out in the media or if they talk about it themselves. I cannot speak outside the confidentiality of those meetings. I'm afraid I can't. I would love to do it, because I see exactly what Mr Sjoerdsma is saying: the name-and-shaming helps. But that's really contrary to what we're doing in these Councils. I can't do that. If it is possible, because they have talked about it themselves or because there are all kinds of innuendo around countries that they have certain positions, then I will try. But I can't tell you that from scratch, because then I'll really damage confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u230	I just heard the Prime Minister make a commitment to map the investment flows that run with, for example, the European Investment Bank. I was wondering if the Minister would also be willing to do so for the Dutch export credit insurances that have been provided. I heard him mention it, but I didn't hear him take it in that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u231	I'm gonna have to get a heads-up. Do I see the support nod yes or nod?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u232	Otherwise, you'll return to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u233	Yeah, you can. I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u235	I'd like to double-check it. We'll add it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u236	Then there's a second question. In our contribution we have put the emphasis on what the Netherlands itself can do with regard to the export of defence equipment. The Minister cites the 1977 law. It is not quite clear to me what the Netherlands can and cannot do on its own with regard to the Dutch defence industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u237	That's where all the exports have been stopped. Totally. They've been completely shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u238	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u239	The Prime Minister's commitment is good, but I would remind you that this Chamber has constantly had to urge the government to act in recent days. The foreign minister was supposed to go to India. We had to file a motion to get him to the RBZ anyway. We've proposed an arms embargo. That was dissuaded by the cabinet. We had to enforce that with a motion from the Chamber. I would therefore like to encourage the Prime Minister to stop pushing the Chamber. Can we really rely on the Prime Minister to take the atmosphere and the mood in the Chamber seriously and push as far as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u240	Yeah, but that goes for Blok, too. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has their own style. I'm talking a little more excited. I think this is important and that's what Blok thinks, but if I think something important is important, you can see that more about me than about Stef Blok. But I've seen what he's been doing the days after and around that debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u241	This is all gonna be in the Acts, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u242	Yeah, sure, but it's also true. Everyone has their own style. He's someone who doesn't use a lot of words. In the Council of Ministers, that's fine; then we'll get through all kinds of points quickly and everyone will know what's going on. But I've seen and experienced what he did this weekend to build those coalitions. So with him, this is as deep as with me. It's also a joint project. We're just trying to figure out how to do this. So it's also fine that the Chamber at some point says: have you thought about that? That's not wrong at all. I am not ashamed of any suggestions coming out of the Chamber that we did not come up with. But it's not that we didn't think it was important or that Blok thought: well, what difference does the raid make? He finds it as horrible as we all do, and also sees the need to take the lead from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u243	We also understood that Mr Blok condemned it. That's what he said last week in his first term. But when the Chamber came up with suggestions, we got a "dissuade" from the Minister. Because of the motions that we have adopted here, he has delivered those messages in the end. We commend him for that, but the Chamber has had to give him enormous encouragement. What I got back from the Prime Minister yesterday was that he would take a motion in his pocket and see if there was any way to get it out of his pocket. But again, I think the Chamber is tighter in this than "putting a motion somewhere in your pocket." Try to forge coalitions in the European summit. Plenty of subjects have been presented. By the way, there is an adopted motion here saying: the Netherlands, stop all your arms supplies to Turkey. It's accepted, so we don't have to wait for that to get into the RBZ again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u244	It's in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u245	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u246	It's running now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u247	I would encourage the Prime Minister to take the Chamber seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u248	Yes, of course. Just one more comment here, which is more in the right atmosphere. I mentioned all kinds of things, tightening up the arms embargo and all kinds of other things. I don't know if there's anything I can do. On Monday, it went a lot further than I thought. You can see that people are saying from Paris now, but others are saying it too that we should do more. That gives me hope again. We're gonna go primeval again in the next few days and push and pull and see what else we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u249	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u250	But I may well say at the press conference in Brussels on Friday afternoon that it did not work. It's an effort obligation. I cannot accept an obligation to achieve results here, because we in Europe need to work together. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to a sensitive point. Mr Van Helvert and I agree, but not entirely. We agree that the situation is very urgent and that the security issue caused by Erdogan's action and the destabilisation of the region poses important security risks to allies. So I get it when he says trigger Article 4 in the North Atlantic Council. That's his proposal. I'm gonna put something next to it. I'm not gonna put it against it. I'm gonna put it next to it, because I'm gonna put it next to it. I believe that next Tuesday... No, next Thursday and Friday, the Secretary of Defense tells me. Next Thursday and Friday, NATO ministerial talks will take place at the level of defence ministers. In recent days, at the level of our highest diplomats in Brussels, there has also been intensive discussion in the NAR, today also very specific about Turkey, also with the Turks, because they are also in it. All these points are discussed intensively, the risks Turkey is taking with our security. I understand very well what you are saying as a country, and I also agree with Mr Van Helvert, the signal that you are sending when you say as a country: I am triggering Article 4. The only risk is that, if we do that when it is already being discussed so intensively in NATO, other countries will be very irritated and could say: the Netherlands is overplaying its hand, because now it is as if we did not think it was important. It has been discussed for many days at ambassador level, and we will discuss it next week at the level of defence ministers. From that postulate, I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert to reflect on that. Should we now do so formally Article 4 or can we act in the spirit of Article 4? Again, I do not neglect the signal you give by triggering Article 4. I don't disagree with that, but I see the risk that, if we do that just like that, that in the whole of the alliance can cause an irritation like: boys, what do you do as the Netherlands? We all see the problem. That is why we have been discussing it for days, both with ambassadors and ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u251	Thanks for the answer. It is good to hear that the Prime Minister fully agrees with the idea behind it. I think it would be a good idea to outline how this is achieved. Last week I also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who, incidentally, was replaced. Then I said, "Shall we do that through Article 4?" Then the Foreign Minister or whoever replaced him said: well, no, get that Article 4 out, then I can give Chamber judgment and then we'll get on with it. I thought, "Let's do that." I took it out and the motion got judgment room. That same night, the Foreign Minister sent me a letter saying that he was going to do it differently. Then I thought, "That's what we don't want." And that is also a bit of the feeling that has just been expressed by Mr Voordewind: what is that? It is an important point, Mr President, allow me another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u252	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u253	I appreciate what you're saying about Minister Blok. I believe that too, let me put it first. I absolutely believe that. But if we keep thinking "if we don't knock anyone in the head, because then it's gonna be okay," I wonder if this is the case in NATO at the moment. Because it has already been done extensively, for example, by Turkey to all the other Member States. Then everybody stays in a good place and nothing happens. If the Netherlands comes up with a proposal and says "we feel threatened in our integrity," then the Netherlands would knock everyone in the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u254	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u255	I have to tell you, I doubt that. I would like to say: see what you can do there. Just say that we want an à la Article 4 consultation, because safety is at stake. I wonder if other countries can come home and say: The Netherlands thought we were in danger, but I didn't like those ISIS fighters at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u256	Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u257	I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u258	Okay, thank you. That's the kind of explanation that helps. Still, I don't think we're in exactly the same place yet. Maybe that can be solved. This has been the subject of intensive discussion in Brussels in recent days, particularly as regards the security risk posed by the situation in northern Syria caused by Turkey, including for European countries. In addition, this Minister for Defence will be discussing in detail in the NATO ministerial next week. That is why I see it as a risk that we are now triggering it and that is said: well, as if we do not see it. Other countries also see this. We are certainly not alone in this. There is a risk that it will become the better enemy of good, in the sense that you cause irritation to colleagues. They say: now you take a position that is actually a correction towards us, as if we have not seen it. That's what I'm afraid of. That's why I'm calling another option. We'll continue the conversations intensively. The Minister of Defence will raise this next week as if it were an article 4 setting, without formally triggering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u259	A brief question, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u260	This is actually a very important motion. I understand the Minister's point. A lot of MPs say they think this is a good idea. Suppose we come up with a motion, then there are a lot of MPs who sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u261	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u262	That's why I need to look around. I can't say one-two-three what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u263	That doesn't come until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u264	What I do want to say is this. We can choose the approach in which we work towards an Article 4 procedure. You don't have to come to that meeting, but the call to colleagues can actually start tonight: boys, this lives with us; do you think that's important and will we bring it in together? That's different than: we saw this and you didn't. We can work towards "will we bring this together?" If the interests of the Netherlands are put at risk by doing so, the Chamber is always willing to speak with you. But let us choose the approach that is contained in my appeal and which may also be expressed in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u265	You will actually say: probe at the sg of NATO and at Member States that this lives in the Netherlands. Cabinet and Chamber agree on that, too. That is my point: we agree on this. I see the added value of the additional signal. We're gonna probe that when we land. Let's do it like this. You're working on a motion text. I'm gonna think about how I'm gonna react to that motion. If you look again at the motion, I will consider my reaction to that motion. Then we'll have somewhere a landing zone that may not have exactly the same cross, but you can see the crosses. Okay, that was the point about Article 4. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of the risks of returning ISIS fighters. This was discussed in detail yesterday in the debate on the European Council. We must, of course, do everything in our power to ensure that ISIS cannot resurrect. That's the first thing. That is very important. We must also make it clear that the responsibility for the situation that has arisen lies very clearly with Turkey. That too is important. At the previous point, Mr. Baudet? If not, I'll finish my story first. The responsibility now lies also with Turkey to ensure that the security of the camps is in order. The Netherlands does not sit still. We are, of course, working intensively with our posts in the region to ensure that they are aware of the possibility of people returning. Last weekend, in the light of current developments, posts in the region were asked to be extra alert to this situation. As you know, people can also report to these posts. Then they go to the Netherlands, handcuffed or not. They are also in close contact with local authorities and other players. Then, of course, there is what you can do here in Europe and the Netherlands. This was also discussed yesterday in the debate on the European Council. In short, it is included in the Schengen Information System. A European arrest warrant has been issued against all strangers. The passports have been reported and declared invalid. In addition, there is intensive cooperation within the safety chain. That's what I outlined yesterday. National coordinators also work together at European level to monitor the situation and what needs to be done. Against that background, it might be good to look at Mr Klaver's question. He asked what Erdogan's promise is that he will secure the camps. This has been discussed in the contact of Mr Blok with Mr Çavuşoglu, his Turkish colleague in office. Blok has reported that Turkey too has an interest in ensuring that captured IS fighters do not escape and that the situation cannot repeat itself. Erdogan made that commitment. What it's worth will have to prove. Of course, we have no guarantees of that. But at least Erdogan has made a commitment that he understands that he has that responsibility. This means that if those camps come under the responsibility of the Turks, we will continue to draw the Turks' attention to their responsibilities in this matter. Mr Sjoerdsma asked what it is like, when people return, in the Netherlands with, for example, detention capacity. That is what we are prepared for. There are, of course, many organisations involved in the theme of travellers. We know in the Netherlands two prisons with a terrorist department, two prisons with a terrorist department, where there is specific policy, also aimed at reintegration. The Children's Protection Council has an approach ready for children with the aim of ensuring adequate care and care. Then, of course, it is true that if convicted Dutch people, extravagants, who eventually return to society after detention, can still manifest themselves as a huge risk. That is where it is very important to discuss it again at all levels, but also very strongly at the level of the municipalities, in the local triangles where that local casuism is discussed. If necessary, we will take additional measures. I think that Mr Asscher's motion was held yesterday when we had that debate in order to argue against the motion that asked for a map of the situation with European countries. I told you I'm not for that. The case is almost permanently monitored by the people involved in the fight against terrorism. It's not possible to remove people right now. So I don't think it's wise to make a plan now. I explained this in detail yesterday. I think that I have outlined what we are doing to stabilise the situation there as much as possible, to the extent that we are able to do so. Of course, that is only limited, and what we are doing to arm ourselves when people return. Finally, I would like to ask whether you have a definitive system with that. Does that guarantee that no one can cross the border of Europe? No, but it's not like that's gonna happen. So it's not a guarantee, but it's not like that can happen. Those were my answers to all the questions about the returners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u266	Just before the time schedule...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u267	I'm almost through all the questions with that. I have two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u268	Okay. I shall go first to Mr Baudet. Short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u269	I'm good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u270	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u271	Who should win in Syria in the eyes of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u272	We want a cease-fire, the Turks to stop this attack. There will, of course, have to be consultations in that region. The situation is, of course, extremely flammable at the moment. It has already been partly ignited, because the Syrian regime has also said that it is going to interfere. That means there could also be involvement from the Russians. It's partly visible as well. The Turks are currently attacking the Kurdish region. The most important thing now is that the situation should rest there, that the matter should be stabilised. I don't think anyone here can win. I think that's illusory. The only thing you can achieve is that you can calm things down a bit and prevent people from fleeing and risking their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u273	But at some point, isn't it true that someone's in charge of Syria again? In a country, especially in such a complex country with all ethnic minorities and all kinds of crazy warriors from all kinds of groups and stuff, doesn't someone have to be the boss? We believe that Assad is the only real option to restore order there. In fact, the Dutch Government's policy has been aimed at bringing Assad down since you were Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u274	Well, we don't have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u275	Now it turns out that that doesn't lead to anything at all. There's no perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u276	You have already said that in your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u277	The Dutch goal is not a regime change. We are also referring, in view of the time you have had with Mr Koopmans and others, to Mr Assad, who has committed the most horrible atrocities against his own people, so that Mr Baudet's position, which is not romantic, seems somewhat strange to me, may I put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u278	Okay, well, then there's a lot to be said for me. But about Syria: what is the end game in the eyes of the Prime Minister? Policy must have something in mind, right? Where are we going in a year, two years from now? What kind of regime, what kind of order is there in Syria? You can see all kinds of things on me, as I am in favour of someone who has done things in your eyes or not, fine, but what are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u279	The only way to bring about some stability there is to ensure that this stops now and that, at least in Northern Syria, there is a dialogue between the various groups on how to bring more permanent peace there. If anyone here has the illusion that Northern Syria or Syria as a whole will be Switzerland in one or two years' time, I say forget it, because that is not going to happen. It will remain unstable in that region for a long time to come. This is not solved by saying to one of the worst dictators in the recent history of humanity that it must regain power. You solve it by letting those groups have the conversation. The UN will have to contribute to this, and Russia has a major role to play in this, because Russia currently plays a very important role in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u280	Finally. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u281	But you would be in favour of regime change, wouldn't you? If you say that at least the end of this conflict is not to give Assad back power, because you say that you are in favour of a regime change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u282	Mr Baudet is turning it around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u283	That may or may not be good, but just say what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u284	Mr Baudet is turning it around. He says: you must now give Assad back control over the entire territory and then everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u285	So that's a you-bowl. So that's what happens all the time. Now the ball is with me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u286	That's not a you-bake, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u287	So you don't want Assad to regain power, but what do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u288	I am fighting Mr Baudet's idea that you will solve it by giving Assad tomorrow power over all of Syria, because that is what he is saying, and also about Northern Syria, because that can have far-reaching consequences... Can I finish? Does Mr Baudet want to hear the answer or does he want to listen to himself? Good. I will finish the answer and then Mr Baudet will react again. Yes, you look angry, but you ask a question and I try to answer it. The solution is not: now that Assad is giving power as Mr Baudet proposes here on the situation in Northern Syria. This has far-reaching consequences for some of the groups that are currently there. Given his human rights track record in recent years, that solution can have far-reaching effects on the lives of very large groups of people. That does not mean that I can now predict exactly how a dialogue in Syria will take place on how that country will eventually be able to get back into calm waters. It's not a quick fix to say "I'm giving one of the worst dictators in recent history power over that country." I'm against that quick fix.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u289	One last question. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u290	Okay. So you just don't know. You're not telling Assad to leave, but you're not telling him to stay. You just don't know. We do "cease fire," we scream, we give some help, we enter into a dialogue and then we see where we come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u291	It would be arrogant to think that we here in the House of Representatives in The Hague can determine what the end state is in this terrible Syrian situation. We can't really determine that from here, can we? Surely that will ultimately have to be the outcome of a discussion to be held in Syria with the relevant groups? What does Mr Baudet say? Well, I don't feel like it. I decide that from The Hague and I think it should be Assad. It's okay. I'm not saying he shouldn't have that position. I'm just saying that I find that odd.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u292	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u293	Good. I'm going to see Mr Asscher. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u294	We must prepare ourselves for the risks arising from the escape of IS fighters. That could be a lot more than it is now. What I would like to see is for the Prime Minister and his partners to formulate a joint approach. I know that there are contacts, that it is monitored and that the Turks are called upon to ensure security and security. But we also know, I believe, that it was Klaver who talked about it, that Turkey is double-hearted when it comes to fighting IS. That means you're gonna have to prepare. You're gonna have to make scenarios for what happens there and here. I understand from the answer that preparations are being made in the Netherlands. I would like to see a common approach. I notice that the Prime Minister is reacting very badly as if I were pleading for a plan where more...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u295	No, no, I know that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u296	I believe that the risk lies much more in the multitude of foreign fighters who can travel freely through Schengen area once they are inside, using a possible new flow of refugees and the great differences in the adequacy of screening of people in different places in Europe. Maybe we could get rid of the word "plan." We could, however, ask for the initiative for a joint approach, for the development of scenarios based on a rational analysis of security risks and not to include taboos in advance. If it is better for security to try one or more people here at some point, then the cabinet should do so in particular. I do not think that we should turn that into a political contest. What we saw at Buitenhof is almost distasteful to me. But I do ask the Prime Minister to take the initiative here with his European partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u297	That's where we disagree. Moreover, I did not say that the Netherlands is making preparations. I said that the Netherlands is prepared. If, for example, people report to a consulate and then have to be transferred to the Netherlands and tried, we can do so, we think. If there are children there, we can handle it when it comes to the Council of Children's Protection. That was my answer to Mr Sjoerdsma. It's not like we're suddenly working on new plans. If people come forward, it's just a standing situation. That's a state-of-the-art policy on return. Going to the area and taking people away now is impossible. Mr Asscher is not in favour of this either. But making a plan is also a signal you give. I'm not for that. I am in favour of us monitoring the situation properly. We have to let our security people do that. From that point of view, we need to tackle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u298	I just liked the debate between the Prime Minister and Mr Van Helvert on Article 4, because I noticed that there was a genuine attempt to understand each other. I don't understand this now. It's like semantics. The word 'plan' calls to the Prime Minister something I have never put in it and neither does Mr Van Ojik. But referring to the standing situation and saying that we are not going to prepare anything, because we are already prepared, I really do find a misconception of what is happening now. That is in stark contrast to what the Prime Minister said earlier. We have a security risk in Europe because people from our countries have gone there. They may want to return. If they report to the consulate, we'll have a trial for that. Probably people with bad intentions won't report that to the consulate. We cannot afford to rely on Erdogan on this point. We know that here. That is why I ask you to take the initiative to come up with a common approach, not a plan. Anyone who says he's gonna make a plan and solve it is lying. But more is needed than waiting and referring to the existing situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u299	However, I think we should also name it if we disagree. Even after this explanatory statement, we are still not in agreement. It is not the case that the Dutch Government is doing nothing. I have outlined what we are doing in that region, including as far as our posts are concerned. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is prepared, where necessary, to provide additional consular manpower, for example if it could help posts in the region, and to take measures to ensure that the situation awareness is increased. I have outlined what measures are being taken within the Schengen area. Of course we are in contact with other countries. But no one's preparing plans or anything right now. That's not possible either. So we don't agree. Sometimes you can. With Van Helvert I could just try to get out. Then I'll give it a shot. I also think I should be honest if we don't agree. I did the same last night to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u300	I shall then put the motion to the vote in consultation with Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u301	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u302	I am doing so in response to this debate in the hope that the majority of the House will consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u303	I'd still like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u304	Two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u305	Two questions? Because the Secretary of Defense still has to do and we also have a second term. You will be given the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u306	It is on this point, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u307	At this point. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u308	This is, I think, better, because the Prime Minister clearly indicates that the cabinet has taken a lot of precautions in case of extravagant return. He says: there are detention facilities and there is shelter for the children who might come back. That's good. The situation that Mr Asscher rightly points out here is that there is a tilting moment in Syria, which has now escaped 700 IS fighters. They certainly pose a safety risk, also for the Netherlands. The Prime Minister also admitted this in the debate with Van Helvert. What is then asked is that there should be no taboos and every effort should be made to ensure that these people are brought to justice and b to prevent them from coming to the European Union uncontrolled, under the radar. I think we want to hear from the Prime Minister: there are no taboos and we are doing everything we can to prepare internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u309	I'll be repeating myself. I do not think that is wise, because it also has a signal effect. So I'm gonna repeat myself. Sometimes we don't agree; that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u310	Yes. This point has now been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u311	Well, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u312	And this motion, which Mr Asscher referred to, will then be...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u313	That's not my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u314	No, okay. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u315	That is not my motion, so I would like Mr Asscher to discuss it further. But I'm saying that, of course, because we're talking about 700 people here for a moment, right? Mr Rutte says: we have no guarantees that we can get them out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u316	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u317	And that is right, because no politician here today can guarantee that his or her ideas will prevent attacks. We have to watch for that, too. But I do ask him how he is at risk of a serious attack as a result of the escape of these people, so we are not doing anything extra to secure them again or to control them. On top of that, there is the risk of IS fighters from other camps, who are released because the Kurds have to defend themselves against the Turks. I actually want to hear that there are additional measures, especially since this Prime Minister said earlier: well, 10,000 border guards at Frontex do I find a bit wild. Well, I don't think it's wild.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u318	It is an illusion that we can now do something in that region to regain control of the people who may have escaped. That is absolutely impossible given the security situation. That's really boots on the ground and we didn't want that when the Americans asked, let alone we were going to do it now. I have outlined what we do with our posts in the region. I have also outlined what we do within Europe, in other words within the European Union, and how we work in the Netherlands. We are also, of course, looking at how we can, with our other partners in Europe, ensure that we can stop people at the border. That is simply what a Schengen system is for. That works. But making a plan also has its own meaning. It's got its own signaling effect. I think that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u319	Finally, and briefly, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u320	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister says it's unwise. The Secretary of Defense is sitting next to the Prime Minister. If he asks the Secretary of Defense "do you have a plan for scenario x?', Then I'm sure the Secretary of Defense has. Do you know why? Because the DOD planners want to take every possible scenario into account. We must do the same here as the Netherlands. So if you don't like it, look to the right and ask those planners to think for a second. It doesn't necessarily have to be military. I don't care how you want to do it, but think together with other allies about how we reduce the risk of these people coming under the radar to the Netherlands and Europe so that we can bring them to justice. Because that's what the next of kin of the victims are asking of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u321	I have outlined that, of course, the terrorism coordinators are in very close contact. The same goes for the security services. The meeting's here. That's practically permanent, and it should be. Strengthening cooperation between security services is one of the initiatives taken by the Netherlands during the Presidency in 2106.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u322	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u323	Maybe one more thing, Mr. Chairman. You can never guarantee that there will never be an attack in the Netherlands. You have to try to take those measures with each other to minimize the chance. But making a plan and giving the impression that you could get people out of there, I don't think it's wise. Mr Asscher did not say that, but that suggestion came from Mr Sjoerdsma's party. No, Mr. Asscher, he didn't come from your direction. I am now talking to Mr Sjoerdsma and he has made that suggestion. At least, his party, I thought. I don't think that's wise. There is no such possibility and such a plan also has its own signal value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u324	I don't really know the Prime Minister like that. He is incredibly armed against a very constructive proposal, which I think is there. If he's talking about the signaling, what exactly is he talking about? That's a good signal word, but what does he mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u325	To give the impression that you are taking measures to perhaps bring people back, as some have suggested, or not to do, but to look at individual cases. You can think of anything. At the moment, countries are moving together. No one's doing that kind of surgery there. That's also out of the question. So you have to make sure that there is intensive consultation between your security people and that you take all the measures there to minimise the risks, without giving the impression that you can rule out the risk of something happening here. 'Cause you never can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u326	If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister does not want to give the impression in any way that there is a possibility that people would come here. But I don't think you can rule that out, and I think that's the whole port of the question. We can't rule out...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u327	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u328	... that Syrian fighters return to Europe and the Netherlands. All they're asking for is... It is good that the Prime Minister says "that's right," because then we agree that we cannot rule that out. The only thing that is being asked is to prepare yourself, also with each other and European, for this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u329	That's what I sketched a few times. That consultation is intensive, and that is what there is, not to go into new actions, but to ensure that you monitor the matter very carefully from the absolute conviction that there is no chance of taking action on the ground. That's why I'm against such a plan, or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u330	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u331	Maybe we'll disagree. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u332	Or the Prime Minister is simply looking for something on which we disagree, because there is no demand for new actions. They're asking for plans so that we can be ready when it happens or when it's necessary. We're not asking for any new actions tomorrow. I also said it in my own contribution: we can't go that way right now to pick people up. That's not im Frage at all, but you have to be ready. I believe that we find the same thing in that sense, and it would be nice if the Prime Minister were to seek that unity. Because whether we like it or not, it's not the problem of the coalition or the opposition, it's our common problem. An attempt is being made to meet that and I think we are closer to each other than he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u333	That could be very good. I also very much appreciate this whole debate. I am also trying to approach the issue as much as possible from a consensuality. But this is, of course, a dossier with a particular sensitivity in relation to the different policy concepts. That is a fact, and that is also reflected in the social debate. I try to outline in my contribution what these different ideas consist of. Sometimes it just doesn't work out, at least not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u334	The Secretary of Defense also has to answer. So I would actually like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer the last two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u335	I was ready for the role of NATO and of Turkey as a member of NATO. That was not, by the way, a question from Mr Klaver. First of all, the pleas to say: NATO is better off without Turkey. I find that extremely unwise. It's opening our east flank. Turkey is one of the strongest members of NATO, and I do not think that NATO could be strategically geopolitical and geopolitical without Turkey. That is my point of view. Then comes the question: how should it be? That's the technical question if you think they should get out. Then the NATO Treaty does not provide for the possibility to suspend an ally or to expel an ally from NATO. However, there are, of course, intensive talks within NATO about Turkey. We have discussed this subject very seriously this evening, but we have, of course, also had a rather recent discussion about the Turkish purchase of Russian equipment and how it relates to the F-35. These are, of course, intensive talks that the Minister of Defence is conducting within NATO ministerial. This whole situation has been discussed today in the North Atlantic Council. The fact that it can be discussed there is also another argument why Turkey should be in NATO, because then at least you have the chance to have the dialogue. But, quite apart from that, I am opposed to NATO being able to do without Turkey. I do not think NATO can do without Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u336	I want to know what the last question is anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u337	There is one more question and it is about what the Netherlands can do to support the Kurds. The Netherlands is supporting the Kurds in Syria as we are trying to support other Syrian citizens in this area. Was that question with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u338	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u339	Oh, he was with the Secretary of Defense. You throw it away, I got it right here. We are doing so by calling on Turkey to cease military action and to focus on de-escalation and by financing humanitarian aid. The Minister of Defence will deal with the latter in a moment. Finally, we are doing so by supporting an inclusive political process in which the Kurdish voice is represented. I was just discussing this with Mr Baudet. That, I think, answers all the questions asked, except for the issues that the Minister of Defence is going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u340	Exactly. A brief question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u341	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I have the North Atlantic Treaty in front of me. The first sentence of Article 1 of that Convention states: "The Parties undertake, as is provided for in the Charter of the United Nations, to settle all international disputes in which they may be settled peacefully in such a way as not to endanger international peace and security and justice." My question to the Prime Minister is: how, for God's sake, is Turkey's action in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u342	So we are also fighting that it would be in line with that. That is why we condemn it and why we say: it contributes to destabilising the region and the risk of ISIS re-emerging, and it has very serious humanitarian consequences, which we have discussed here tonight. But that doesn't mean that you can say then: we'll kick them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u343	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u344	That's the Prime Minister's conclusion. I don't share that with him. My follow-up question is the following. There is also an Article 5 in the same treaty, which says: an attack on one is an attack on all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u345	As I have just said, the Secretary of Defense is going to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u346	That's what the Secretary of Defense will come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u347	You said that I am dealing with the NATO part with Turkey, and Turkey is not allowed to leave. That is why I would like to ask you: what if Turkey is attacked? Do we consider this to be so clear to the letter, and is that an attack on us? Is that how we're supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u348	It is, of course, impossible to answer such a question. First of all, there must be consensus. Invoking Article 5 calls for consensus. Then Mrs Marijnissen will say: yes, but if this happens, will the Netherlands remember that consensus? That question cannot be answered, because you never know exactly what the circumstances would be in which that would happen. In any case, there is absolutely no automatism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u349	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I have already put aside a few questions, because they have already been answered in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u351	Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u352	No, no, that's totally fine. That's gonna make it a little faster. Nor will I make a general statement. I just wanted to say that we have already discussed some of the issues that are being discussed here this afternoon in the discussions in preparation for the NATO ministerial meeting with a number of members of your Chamber, because of course we started there in Syria, even though it was not on the original agenda. I would like to endorse what the Prime Minister said in general terms about how terrible the situation we have come to be in. That is a nice bridge to the questions on the humanitarian side, to which I will give the answer. The Netherlands is already in the top ten donors for the Syrian region. In this sense, we are already strongly contributing to addressing humanitarian needs in the north-east, through the UN, the International Red Cross and NGOs. This year, we will contribute 21 million to humanitarian aid in addition to the larger unintended amounts for the UN and the ICRC. We are discussing whether we should not do this with other countries now, given the terrible humanitarian situation that has arisen. That was the question on the part of your Chamber. We are looking at the possibilities of scaling up, as well as, in response to Mr Asscher's question, making more money available for the north-east. So we are looking at that and I have heard the House's appeal very well. I will also make it very clear to the colleagues from the State Department. I'd like to add that it's not just about money. That has to be said. The aid must also be available. Humanitarian access is also extremely important. As has just been the case, like the whole evening, the situation is very fluid and unsafe. She might change by the minute. Even for humanitarian workers, it must eventually be possible to get there. So we're looking at it, but we should definitely see if we can get there. There are several sides to it, but we look very positively at this point. This question has actually been asked by almost all Members; I am not going to mention it. Then Mr Klaver asked how we are working towards a UN resolution on the ceasefire. The Prime Minister has already said something about it. I very much agree with him that a cease-fire and a peace process facilitated by the UN, on which there has just been a strange debate, is ultimately the only way forward. That is why we support that process and welcome the fact that the situation has been discussed again in the Security Council today and that Turkish action has been condemned afterwards. We are not in the Security Council at the moment, of course, but we will do everything we can to exert influence in order to get the resolutions adopted. We will advocate the ceasefire in all fora, not only in the forums mentioned by the Prime Minister but everywhere. Then there is Mr Krol's 50PLUS question on Cyprus. The Greek part of Cyprus also fears a raid, was the background to its question. As you know, there are tensions between Cyprus and Turkey about gas drilling in the Mediterranean around Cyprus. That is undesirable and it makes it difficult to find a solution to the situation on the island. It also contributes to instability in the region. We have no indication that there is a military escalation there at the moment. But, of course, we are following the situation very closely. This also applies to the whole issue: it changes so quickly that we look at the situation from hour to hour. Mr Sjoerdsma's question on the security situation in Al-Hol and Al-Roj. The security situation in those camps was already very worrying. As far as I know, it has not changed dramatically since the Turkish invasion. This is unlike the situation in Ain Issa. Obviously, there is so much volatility in the region that the situation can change from hour to hour, following what I have just said. That may, of course, ultimately have repercussions for the security of the shelter; you have already spoken with the Prime Minister about the tent camps. The reports on escapes in the region are of course very worrying, of course first for the region itself, but also for Europe. We've already talked about that. We are following that, but we do not now have a much worse situation in the two camps mentioned. In reply to Mr Voordewind I say that these are also the camps where the Dutch women are sitting, about 35. Most of them are in Al-Hol and Al-Roj. Mr Voordewind's question and Mrs Marijnissen's question on the NLA, the non-lethal aid. As you know, the NLA programme was completed a year and a half ago; you discussed it extensively with my colleague Mr Blok. As you know, I cannot comment here on groups supported or not supported by the Netherlands. You know, of course, that these groups are constantly changing composition, leadership and alliances. In that sense, it is impossible to follow it properly. But a motion has been passed and we will do our best to try to map out the situation with, for example, the pick-up trucks and other items that have been delivered. We'll inform the Chamber confidentially about that, as far as I'm concerned for Christmas, I think. Mr Krol's question on Mr Erdogan's threat to open the gate. Mr Krol even cited the Navy in that context. Such statements have, of course, been made before by Erdogan in a broader sense. As far as I am concerned, threats are not at all helpful in any situation. They also do no justice whatsoever to the ultimate humanitarian consequences in the region of the entire offensive. Because that is, of course, ultimately the worrying situation. We are simply monitoring developments very closely, but nothing is being said about the Navy. Then I have Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question about the law on criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory. She is no longer present, but otherwise she might ask to answer the question. That bill was adopted by your Chamber on 10 September 2019 and is currently in the Upper House. I believe that all the questions that she has asked can be taken into account in the further treatment. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u353	Yes, but Mrs Marijnissen has a short question. One question, because we also have a second term and it's almost 1:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u354	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u355	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u356	We'll have a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u357	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u358	The Prime Minister just goes on to Brussels in one piece, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u359	Absolutely, but first teaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u360	Absolutely. Oh, no. Teaching first. My question is about the IS fighters in the camps. I sense some ease with which the Prime Minister and now the Minister say: yes, that goes to the Turks. But as far as our information goes, those camps are still being guarded by the Kurds. Is it not quite contradictory, to say the least, that on the one hand you condemn the Turkish invasion and, at the same time, you say: those IS fighters and that camp surveillance, that is allowed to go to the Turks? If I listen to you carefully, you say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u361	Of course, they're still partially guarded by the SDF. Every news of escapes is worrisome, I said; I have talked about it. Mr Blok has made it clear at various times that Turkey now has responsibility, because they have ultimately caused instability. You can find all kinds of things, but it is the only way to achieve a little stability in the end. That's how we see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u362	Okay, one question. That's all I'm gonna let in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u363	Mrs Marijnissen's question concerns an important point. The Minister can expect Mr Erdogan to take over the surveillance of these camps, but how does the government imagine that? That the Kurdish guards will wait there quietly, set up an office, maybe sign a transfer document together, and that it will be handed over in an orderly manner? I don't think so. I think the Kurds are gone and the camp is half empty when the Turks arrive there. Once again the question to this minister, to this cabinet: how does the cabinet assess the risk that these two camps, Al-Hol and Al-Roj, will soon face so few guards that there will be real escapes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u364	That is a very difficult question to answer, because we cannot all look into the future. The Prime Minister also said something about it. It is obvious that there are risks to this, precisely because the situation in the region is so volatile and everything is moving. That makes sense. That is also why Mr Blok has constantly made it clear to the Turks at various times that the Prime Minister has also said that, given the situation that has arisen, it is their responsibility to do something about it. We will continue to do the same. But it's obvious that it's complicated. That is why we are at all concerned about the possible spread of IS fighters in the region and the debate that has taken place with Mr Van Helvert. We will, of course, pay great attention to this in NATO next week. As I said this afternoon, Mr Sjoerdsma was not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u365	Mr Voordewind, one question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u366	I've been very scarce with my interruptions, but it's late. My question goes to the Minister of Defence, because the Prime Minister referred to it briefly. It's about Article 5. The Luxembourg Prime Minister has already said that it will be very difficult. President Erdogan has already said that he has carried out the action using Article 5. Is the Minister prepared to discuss in the NATO ministerial what we are going to do as NATO if we are going to have recourse to Article 5 by Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u367	The Prime Minister has indicated what this is all about, in a technical sense. We have not yet been asked that question in the official sense. It should then be dealt with in such a NATO ministerial. He has indicated what it is like, that it is not such a simple situation. It's about consensus and it's got all kinds of rules. What I am going to do is to have a very critical conversation with the Turks this afternoon about their justification for doing so. We've condemned it. I also said this afternoon, Mr President, you were unable to see me having a critical conversation with my Turkish colleague on this matter. I will condemn what has happened and see how we can achieve stability, et cetera. So you can be sure that I will do so in a critical sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u368	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I hear there's a need for one minute suspension. Okay, then I'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u369	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u370	Mr. Chairman. I thank the two rulers for their reply. I note, however, that pushing and pulling towards the cabinet is to bring concrete pressure to bear on Turkey. The cabinet hates it and has strongly condemned it. Luckily, at least, incited by the Chamber, we have an arms embargo. I have heard the Prime Minister say that he is making an effort to get the broadest possible support in the European Union. I'm gonna follow him on that. Then with regard to Al-Roj and Al-Hol. There are still major concerns about monitoring. I do not see, like colleagues, a plan B of the cabinet when it comes to those children and the women who may be released. That is what I am asking for once more. Then two motions. I won't file one motion either. I have given Mr Asscher the lead when it comes to humanitarian aid for refugees and displaced persons, so he comes up with his own motion and my name will be on it. That leaves me with two more motions. The first concerns Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a risk that, now that Turkey is occupying parts of Syria, it is not entirely excluded that Syria is carrying out retaliatory actions against Turkey;]] [[noting that one NATO member may call upon other NATO members to receive military assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to obtain support within NATO to state that the current situation does not give Turkey the right to invoke Article 5 of the NATO Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Baudet, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u371	Then a brief, final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the SDF was a key ally in the fight against ISIS;]] [[Whereas Turkey has endangered the security of the region and other NATO Member States by attacking this ally in Northern Syria;]] [[Whereas the SDF is still trying to monitor the camps of captured ISIS fighters;]] [[calls on the government to continue to support the Kurds in the anti-ISIS coalition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u373	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. I'm gonna do my best to read them to you in time. We really believe that the cabinet should do more to call on Turkey to stop this illegal invasion. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Foreign Affairs Council has only led to EU Member States taking an extra critical look at export licences for military equipment to Turkey;]] [[noting that Turkey is still engaged in an illegal attack in Syria;]] [[calls on the government, with like-minded other EU countries, to look for ways to bring about the following sanctions against Turkey and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible:]] [[• personal sanctions;]] [[• economic sanctions;]] [[• diplomatic sanctions;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Raan and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u375	Then there's a motion on the weapons. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Turkey has been in a tension zone for years, waged a war in the southeast of its own country, committing war crimes and violating human rights, carrying out attacks on northern Iraq, invaded Afrin in Syria in 2018 and now attacking Northern Syria again;]] [[noting that, despite this, the Netherlands continued to export arms to Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the export of military equipment to Turkey over the past ten years, to examine the extent to which equipment supplied by the Netherlands is used in the war against Northern Syria and to see how lessons can be learned to ensure that arms exports criteria are applied more strictly in future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Raan and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u376	Finally, a short motion on the situation of political prisoners in Turkey itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey has apprehended critics of the illegal attack on Northern Syria;]] [[calls on the Government to press for the release of these and other political prisoners in Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Raan, Mr Krol and Mr Van Helvert.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u377	Mr. Chairman. Leon de Winter closed his column today in De Telegraaf with the phrase: "Violence belongs to the culture and morals of the Levant." We have seen the reflection of this in our country at least this evening in Rotterdam. The worst part is that cops got hurt in there. If I try to evaluate what the Prime Minister and this government's position has been this evening, I find, in essence, that securing the inner city of The Hague against the farmers still succeeds well with the army, that keeping apart the rioting Lower Koerden and Lower Turken was a whole task that caused the necessary police wounds, and that the government, when it comes to protecting our country, does not give at all at home. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that President Erdogan threatened to open up Turkey's borders, allowing millions of migrants and terrorists to come to Europe;]] [[Whereas the government should no longer be allowed to be squeaked by Erdogan;]] [[calls on the government to abandon Schengen, to introduce national border control and to re-establish its own immigration policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u378	Do I understand that the PVV, because it is now about Turkish Dutch people, is talking about demonstrations that have taken place in Rotterdam, where things have happened that are absolutely unacceptable, that are terrible and that we must condemn? And does the PVV say that it all went well with the farmers? That wasn't the case, was it? I've heard that wrong, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u379	Then you must have heard that wrong. For I have said that the government has managed well to protect The Hague from 'the farmers'. But the rest quickly gets out of hand, and when it comes to the security of our country against what comes from abroad, the Levant, all about threats, the government just doesn't give home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u380	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the PVV. I mean Mr De Roon of the PVV, but Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u381	I can't believe it, Madam President. I was once appointed by the Volkskrant as a member of the Labour Party, on Radio 1 as a member of the VVD, and now by the chairman as a member of the PVV. It shouldn't get weirder. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I think it is very good that the Prime Minister is here, because this is really very important. I do notice that sometimes we have to push and pull a little when it looks like the Prime Minister has to do something other than what he has already done. That's why I'm filing both motions. And, of course, both motions apply: if the Prime Minister gets into trouble, which is a huge damage to the interests of the Netherlands, then he can always come back and chat with the Chamber. But it's okay to adjust the approach a little bit. That's why two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that Erdogan will be very sensitive to sanctions with economic consequences for Turkey;]] [[considers that sanctions against Turkey work best when Europe and the US coordinate and strengthen each other;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to conduct summit meetings with European leaders and the White House as soon as possible in order to align and strengthen sanctions and other actions to force Turkey back together,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Koopmans and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u382	Then there is the motion on the NATO Council. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the release of ISIS fighters in Northern Syria is a threat to European countries and also to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to consult with the NATO Council at ministerial level an article 4 in connection with the threatened security of Member States as a result of released ISIS fighters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Asscher, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u383	In addition to myself, this motion was signed by Mr Asscher, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol and Mr. Jeez, how was this written? Oh, Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u384	It's a quarter past one, so you're forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u385	You'll see the copy right away. If you can recognize the name in there, that's very handsome. But the motion was co-signed by Mr. Klaver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u386	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert from the CDA. I now turn to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u387	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to endorse what the Prime Minister said about our freedom of demonstration and freedom of expression in this country. In these days, all kinds of demonstrations are rightly compared with each other. They must all be able to take place and all within the limits of the law, with respect to the aid workers who protect us all in this country. Mr. Chairman. I will put to the vote the motion that I tabled with Mr Van Ojik yesterday and then stopped, because I am convinced that it is essential that the Prime Minister, together with other European leaders, does more than just monitor and refer to the situation as it was. A new situation has arisen and this requires active action by our cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there have been deteriorating humanitarian conditions since Turkey's invasion of Northeast Syria and that 160,000 people have been displaced;]] [[Considering that the United Nations estimates that a minimum of USD 30 million is needed in order to provide assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate an additional contribution to provide necessary assistance to displaced persons and refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u388	Partly on behalf of Van Helvert, also on behalf of Mr Voordewind, who was also developing a spiritual fatherhood around a movement this way, also on behalf of Mrs Marijnissen, and, neatly written, Mr Klaver, Krol, Sjoerdsma, Van Raan, Van der Staaij and Van Kooten-Arissen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u389	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. Then I will go to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence for answering the questions. Let me move immediately to the only motion I wish to table here today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Turkish invasion of Syria must be combated in a joint and realistic manner;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently examine the European funds and resources that can be taken from Turkey and to mobilise the international response;]] [[calls once again on the government to call for the immediate cessation of EU accession negotiations with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koopmans, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Krol and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u391	Maybe it's better for some people if we go home. Maybe it's better for all of us. Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the directors for the answers to the questions they have asked. I would like to point out that I really notice that the tone is different from last week and then yesterday. I really see more urgency. I would like to thank the Cabinet for that. I see it when I hear the Prime Minister talking about his priority list. He states: we really need to work on these sanctions and we are not going to see if there is a possibility; I am going to actively recruit for them. That's really good. But at one point, I didn't see it. That was the point Mr Asscher was just talking about and the motion for a resolution that is being put to the vote is about. I was no longer allowed to interfere, so I'm saying it now: that was interesting because there are different policy ideas. You know that, too. You say this is difficult. Yes, I know how difficult this is, in the coalition and actually in this entire parliament. But we must be above that with each other, not by making a choice now, but simply by preparing ourselves. That is why I did not think the Prime Minister's answer was sufficient. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. I'd like to read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, following the recent Turkish invasion of Syria, the Netherlands in the European Union should advocate the introduction of economic sanctions;]] [[Whereas the European Investment Bank has lent billions of euros in Turkey in recent years;]] [[noting that the European Investment Bank is already reconsidering its strategy towards Turkey as a result of Turkish gas drilling in the waters of Cyprus;]] [[calls on the Government to call for the European Investment Bank not to grant new loans to Turkey and to use the new strategy to end cooperation with Turkey in the review of the new strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u392	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two directors for their reply. I think there is great commonality in the desire to stop Turkey, in the Chamber, at least the vast majority of the Chamber, and in the Cabinet. That's profit. The other gain, which Mr Klaver also mentioned, is the desire to turn this common will into action at European level. What I find more complicated is the problem of doing everything to prevent people from coming under the radar. The Prime Minister even says: I want to leave that to Turkey. But our own AIVD says that Turkey is being used and is also committed to giving IS breathing space and freedom of movement. So that is the country that we want these camps to be guarded. That's not going well, I'll tell this Prime Minister. That's dangerous. This also means that we must talk to our European partners about the moment when there is a need and opportunity to do something there to prevent them from escaping or avoiding trial. That moment may come. That's not now; I can see that too. It is now unsafe and unpredictable. But I really think that the cabinet should take the space that part of the Chamber offers to go into it. It's called just planning. It's called forward thinking. It's called trying to prevent things from getting worse. I ask that of this Prime Minister and I ask him to use that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u393	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u394	Madam President. I too would like to thank both directors very much for their reply. While we were debating here, it was less pleasant in Rotterdam. There it has come to some decent fights between two groups in various places in the city. Unfortunately, I am afraid that will not be the end of it. We must do everything we can not to move the battle to the Netherlands. 50PLUS welcomes the Prime Minister's firm words, but it really is a problem. Then an adopted motion would like some clarification. That's why we're making a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we know freedom of expression in the Netherlands and that it needs protection where it is at stake;]] [[Whereas we should not fight the Turkish invasion of Syria within our Dutch borders;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor with due attention the freedom of expression and security of, in particular, Turkish and Kurdish Dutch who speak against the invasion of Syria, as long as this conflict continues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u395	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for answering the questions and also thank you for the commitment to map arms supplies and export credit insurance. Money is also a weapon in this. We have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Turkish invasion of Northeast Syria has led to the fleeing of more than 150,000 people, including tens of thousands of children;]] [[Notes that unhindered access should be guaranteed for humanitarian organisations at all stages of current military operations in order to provide life-saving emergency assistance;]] [[Calls on the Government to urge all parties to the conflict and the international community to ensure that the freedom of movement and access of humanitarian organisations are guaranteed in the affected areas, in line with humanitarian war law;]] [[calls on the Government to be ready to provide the required level of flexible emergency financing and to help humanitarian organisations respond effectively, both in Syria itself and in surrounding areas affected by this conflict,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u396	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u397	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u398	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's bizarre what happened in Rotterdam. This also has to do with the way in which we conduct the debate here in Parliament and the way in which the image is portrayed. I also read the news that a Turkish German was stabbed by a PKK trailer in the German city of Lüdenscheid. It is therefore important that we monitor this actively. I can agree with what the Prime Minister has said about this. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the conflict in Syria has had its impact on Dutch society, as a result of tensions and social exclusion groups;]] [[noting that recent Turkish Dutch have suffered from stigmatisation and intimidation;]] [[believes that the government has a duty to promote peaceful social movement and to stand up for groups that are stigmatized;]] [[Calls on the Government to actively promote the removal of tensions in society as a result of the conflict in Syria;]] [[calls on the government also to stand up for groups that are stigmatized and expelled as a result of the conflict, including Turkish Dutch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u399	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u400	Mr. Chairman. The motions on the documents Nos. 275, 282 and 286 will be dealt with by the Minister of Defence. I would remind you that yesterday I advised 'unadvised' on the motion which Mr Asscher is going to put to the vote. I'll be at tonight's motions. First of all, that is the motion in part No. 274. The operative part talks about the current situation. So you're talking about the fact that Turkey is active in Northern Syria. Indeed, that is not Article 5. In view of the considerations above, it is impossible to say in advance that the Netherlands will oppose the use of Article 5, no matter what happens. There are probably a lot of reasons not to, but you can't guarantee that in advance. It just can't be. You can't answer that as-dan situation right now. In fact, if the motion is passed, the cabinet cannot execute it. If this happens, then we will have to map the whole situation and decide on it. The operative part is fine, but in it you talk about the current situation. It's not about Article 5 anyway. That's Turkey's invasion of northern Syria. Above that, of course, it is also about Syrian retaliatory actions against Turkey. Then it really depends on what character that happens and what that looks like. Then there may also be situations where you cannot say beforehand that the Netherlands does not remember the consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u401	A brief remark, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u402	I assume the Prime Minister is talking about recital 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u403	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u404	We could get rid of that. Then the operative part just stays in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u405	But then the motion isn't about anything anymore. Then the operative part says that the current situation, namely that Turkey was invaded in Northern Syria, is no reason to invoke Article 5. That's true. That is a raid in another country. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber, but then it's a statement of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u406	No. That raid has already taken place. That's obvious. The point is that this is an irrefutable road when Turkey is going to invoke Article 5. The question is whether the discussion can be conducted by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u407	I'm afraid we'll disagree. Article 5 calls for consensus. This motion says: remember the consensus. The Netherlands must ensure that the consensus is withheld if there is a Syrian retaliatory action. This is mentioned in the first recital. Then Mr Voordewind says: I will remove it. Then you're gonna stand there: "heard the debate, noting that a country may rely on Article 5; calls on the Government to obtain support within NATO to declare that the current situation does not give Turkey the right to invoke Article 5." Well, the current situation is Turkey's invasion of northern Syria. In doing so, the motion has become a statement of fact. That's not what Voordewind means. He does mean something else. From what he said, I understand that, but I don't automatically agree with that. It may well be that this is the case in practice, but you cannot guarantee that the Netherlands will always remember the consensus. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u408	We have 14 motions. If we're going to have a debate on each motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u409	Then I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u410	That's what I understand. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u411	There are a lot of signatories. I say quite frankly: if this motion is adopted, it will not be enforceable. I'm gonna have to be honest with you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u412	Second motion. Sorry, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u413	The motion in part No. 276: Judgment of the Court of Justice. That is an effort obligation. The motion in part No. 277: dissuade. As you know, we'll check the front. It's impossible to map this. That is what we discussed in the debate. The motion in part No. 278: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The human rights situation is constantly being brought to Turkey's attention, at political level and also at a high level of administration. The motion in part No. 279: dissuade, because disproportionate. The motion in part No. 280: Mr. Van Helvert, pay attention. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that we are going to look at it with colleagues within NATO and perhaps also with the sg, as Mr Van Helvert suggested. We then say that this is a statement from the Chamber and that as a government we see the added value of this signal. We're looking at how people look at that. Then we'll see what's going on. If it turns out that people say: I'm not crazy Henkie, then we come back in some form with the message that we really shouldn't do this. Otherwise, we will. If I may interpret the motion in this way, it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u414	That's the seventh motion, or the eighth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u415	The motion concerns the use of Article 4. Sorry, that's the motion in part number. 281. I'm doing it in the wrong order. It doesn't matter. It is a question of calling in Article 4. I shall now turn to the motion for a resolution on part No. 280, over the U.S. Judgment Room. A sympathetic idea. Once again, we must first coordinate it in the European Union. That makes sense, because we must try to bring the EU into line. The motion in part No. 283 gets judgment, Room. It's about an effort commitment. The motion in part No. 284 gets judgment, Room. That is not so easy, because that board seems to decide again, I understand now, by a simple majority. But I told you we're gonna map out exactly how it works. The motion in part No. 285 gets judgment, Room. That's what we're gonna do, of course. The operative part of the motion in part No. 287 is very sympathetic, except that it is now only about Turkish Dutch. The second recital is also only about Turkish Dutch. So I don't think the motion is balanced. I will stick to my own call at the beginning of the debate and strongly advise against the motion in part No. 287. I'm telling you, she's out of balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u416	I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will give an opinion on the motion on item No. 275. I welcome the change that has been handwritten. There's "Kurds" written down. Those, of course, are our allies. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 282, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. Clearly, we have to do something about it. That's what I said. I don't know exactly how much space Minister Kaag has right now. It's someone else's budget that I need to talk about. We will simply look constructively at this motion and let your Chamber know. That's why we leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Van Raan c.s. motion. in part 286 is in line with policy, so I can leave that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u418	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-11.u419	I thank the Prime Minister and I thank the Minister of Defence. I thank the Members of Parliament. The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I would also like to thank the people who were present in the gallery and those who followed the debate in a different way.
