ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the own-initiative proposal 34534, Proposal for a law of Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yesilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Geleijne providing a framework for the development of policies aimed at irreversible and gradual reduction of Dutch greenhouse gas emissions in order to limit global warming and climate change, i.e. the Climate Act. I see Mrs Beckerman came in, too. Welcome, ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. It seems to be a logical combination: the polder and a climate law. That's not it at all. And the First Chamber was not created to polder, but to judge laws on legality, feasibility and enforcement. Nothing is more dangerous than polding about the climate in a country below sea level and in times when sea levels are rising dramatically, partly because of us. The polder law before us is built on broad party political support and not on the serious intention to keep dry feet here and elsewhere. The First Chamber is not there to do good, but to prevent evil. In this sense, I would like to ask all colleagues to make an independent assessment of how to prevent the evil that threatens our planet. We are the first generation to experience the effects of climate change and the last generation to do anything about it. The average temperature on Earth has risen by 1°C compared to the temperature during the industrial revolution. The aim of the Paris agreement, which the Netherlands has committed itself to, is to keep global warming well below 2°C and preferably within 1.5°C. Warming up to 2°C can lead to a tipping point, an abrupt and irreversible change in the climate. Climate scientists knew in the 1970s that this risk was lurking. If politics had listened to science then, the path of graduality could have been followed. Now more drastic measures are needed, but this climate law breathes the atmosphere of "after us the flood." Coalition and opposition don't want change, they want business as usual. They're looking at what's feasible, not what's necessary. The Netherlands is currently the fence of Europe. No European country is as far away from the targets for generating renewable energy as the Netherlands, the Central Bureau of Statistics concludes. And part of what is called renewable energy in the Netherlands is the opposite. Subsidised biomass plants cause damage to Dutch forests, forests of great value, including species richness, and forests that we need so much to absorb CO. Above all, what is really absurd is that in this time of crisis the government parties are trying to push through the expansion of Lelystad Airport, while aviation is one of the most climate-friendly industries in the world. Just before the Paris agreement was signed in 2015 and shortly after Urgenda first won a climate case and the Dutch climate policy was spoken in plain language by the judge, the Thieme/Klaver motion called on the government to come forward with an effective climate law. The motion did not make it, but three months later GroenLinks and the Labour Party announced a joint initiative law. Five other parties are now participating, too little too late. What is to be praised for the initiative is that the original intention is good: an attempt to formulate checkable objectives, in which the Netherlands adheres to international agreements. The result, despite good intentions, is far from sufficient: a climate law that has been broken, a climate law as an excuse to continue with business as usual, at the expense of future generations. With this uncommittal and unambitious law, we will not stay on course to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C. With this law, we're moving to 2°C, that tipping point. The Party for Animals has seen great differences between the original proposal of GroenLinks and the PvdA and the final result. These parties opted for an "après nous le déluge-arrangement" in this chambre de réflexion, which was even supported by parties like the VVD and the CD. They assess the undressed law on the maintenance of our aviation and agricultural sectors, all of which, according to those parties, have nothing to fear. Well, that says enough, because transition is urgently needed. I'm moving on to the emission budget. The emission budget included in the original proposal has disappeared. My group finds this unacceptable. The Scientific Council for Government Policy wrote: "A budget approach requires the development of a temporal distribution strategy. What is now being blocked is later no longer available. Moreover, a budget approach emphasises that long-term climate change is not dependent on emissions at a specific time, but on cumulative emissions over a longer period of time. This means that it makes sense to take measures rather than later, especially if there is a long lead time in the effectiveness of the measures. A budget approach thus combines a strong long-term ambition with administrative flexibility." In my group's view, the choice to delete the emission budget is contradictory to making a maximum effort as stated in the Paris Agreement and as dedicated to all the countries that have signed it. I would like to hear from the initiators why they have chosen not to include the emission budget in this legislative proposal on second thought. That emission budget can still be included in the five-year climate plan. The climate plan will then also allow for the formulation of an indicative emissions budget by sector, including measures necessary to remain within the available budget. It is wise to avoid that different sectors, such as agriculture and aviation, can over-sustain a large part of the Dutch budget through unjustified exemptions. My question to the Minister is therefore how he looks at working with an emission budget and whether he is prepared to include this powerful instrument in the climate plan. Mr. Chairman. Another objection we have to the Climate Act in its current form is that the definition of CO-neutral electricity production refers to the use of biomass as a fuel. Biomass, whose production is in competition with food crops or at the expense of vulnerable ecosystems, cannot deliver sustainable energy. It also leads to an increase in CO in the air and is therefore not CO-neutral, which is suggested in the Climate Act. Then the planning. The Paris Agreement calls on countries to increase climate ambitions as much as possible every five years. My question to the initiators is: is it true that the present proposal only sets a target for 2050 without a mechanism to see if that ambition can be increased every five years? That would mean that it would be possible to do nothing until 2050. In this law, the Party for Animals also lacks a powerful reference to what it's all about: limiting global warming to well below 2°C with a clear view at 1.5°C, translated into checkable targets. The reduction target of greenhouse gases, as noted in the legislative proposal, is that greenhouse gas emissions are 95% lower in 2050 than in 2090. This is out of date. It is not what is needed for the 1.5°C scenario. For example, the European Commission, not one of the most progressive bodies, is calling for 100% reduction by 2050. It is also much more in line with the IPCC report if we go further and set 100% reduction in 2050 as the goal. My group also finds disappointing that the principle of justice, as internationally agreed in Article 4 of the Paris agreement that rich, industrialised countries will take the lead in achieving CO reduction as soon as possible and as far as possible has not been included in the proposal. Can the initiators deal with this? Can they show if that's true? Have they not taken Article 4 of the Paris Agreement into account? This seems to be an omission in the bill. Mr. Chairman. In Urgenda's climate case, the court stated that as later on, the carbon budget decreases more rapidly. At a later date, substantial further measures will have to be taken to achieve the desired level. Waiting with reduction is therefore not (cost) effective at all. At the same time, climate risks are increasing unnecessarily. Think of the risk of flooding, an increase in infectious diseases, loss of biodiversity and the disruption of drinking water supply. Therefore, settleable intermediate targets are important. The non-binding nature of the 2030 target does not fit into a serious climate law. Compared to the original proposal of the Labour Party and GroenLinks, the word "target" was replaced by "target" in 2030. The Plan Bureau for the Environment states that a target of 55% emission reduction in 2030 is appropriate to the 1.5°C scenario. The European Parliament voted for 55% reduction in 2030. My question to the initiators is: why do they opt for a weak target by 2030 and not just match that 55% target by 2030? Mr. Chairman. The original proposal assigned an important role to an independent climate committee to be set up. The current legislative proposal abandons this and lays down that supervision with the Council of State. My question is: is it equipped for that? Can the initiators deal with this? A directing and coordinating function by an external authority is necessary to achieve the objectives of the law, across various cabinets. The establishment of such an independent climate committee is in line with the opinions of the Scientific Council for Government Policy and the Council of State to include an additional assessment mechanism, as noted in the explanatory memorandum of the original legislative proposal. The letter of amendment lays down this function as amended by the Section of the Council of State. The Animal Party does not in principle have a negative attitude towards an important role of the Council of State, but it also notes that the Council of State and the WRR themselves have steered an independent climate committee. I'd like to get a response from the initiators. Why hasn't an independent climate committee been deployed? Finally, Mr President. We conclude that the Climate Act in its present form is too non-binding and not ambitious enough. With this climate law, we're not gonna make it. Hansje Brinker did not wait to stick his finger in the dike until six other passers-by were willing to do so in weakened form and with many ifs and buts. Nor should we. We need to stop rearranging the seats on the deck of the Titanic. We must reject this law, pending a climate law 1.5. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, initiators. As I said, we are talking today about the Climate Law. That's an initiative law. I think it's okay to start with a compliment. Our group always appreciates it when one of the fundamental rights of the Chamber is used on the other side of the Binnenhof, namely the right to initiate new legislation, as we now have before us. Madam President. The reason for this legislation is the Paris Agreement. This Chamber has considered this for a long time in recent months, in particular the usefulness and necessity of this initiative law. There is no doubt that the climate is changing. Our group, too, expressed a firm yes when the Paris Agreement passed us, but we did give a warning. We have said: make sure that what is the result of the initiative law and the Paris agreement will soon be able to count on support. As far as we are concerned, this is essential in the development of this. It is about support in the Netherlands, within the Netherlands, in various sectors, in households, in everyone who has been appointed this morning by colleagues, but also in different countries. I think the latter should be emphasized a little more. I will come back to that later. By the way, climate change is not something of this century or something that is new. I haven't been there, but it seems that polar bears have once walked in the Sahara and palm trees once grew on the South Pole. I haven't been there, but I have been to the marl grooves in the hills of South Limburg, where the remnants of what must have been a tropical sea are still recognizable and visible. In short, even then we had a different world, at least a different climate than we have experienced here over the last hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u6	You're talking about the moosaur, I guess, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u7	Yes. If you don't know, I can advise you to take a look at Leiden. There's still a few things that remind us of that period. That is also the case in Maastricht, and I believe even in Paris. It is very worthwhile to look at what has apparently caused climate change in the Netherlands hundreds of millions of years ago. And then I'll stay a little closer to home, in my own Friesland. I can't help it, Mr. Chairman. In the first half of the last century twelve Eleven Cities Tours were organized. After that there was a period of more than twenty years no Elfstedentocht. Then three came in a row and then twenty years nothing. Climate change? It will certainly have had an impact and it will certainly have an impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u8	It is not a question of demonstrating that there has ever been such a thing as climate change. We do know that. I can give you hundreds of other examples. The point is that climate change is now caused by human intervention. That is at the heart of this debate, and that is also at the heart of the international debate. Climate change is now caused by the burning of all kinds of resources, fossil fuels. It is about the relationship between climate change and human intervention. That's what the whole law is about. That is also the whole context of this law. That's what I wanted to give you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u9	So that's what we're talking about today. That is why it is clear why this climate law is now so in front of us. It is intended to see if we could gradually, as I say in the direction of Mr Ester, emit fewer greenhouse gases. I'm not saying that man has no influence. You didn't hear me say that. If you have received that image from my introductory sentences about hundreds of millions of years ago, then that is not entirely right. But with the Climate Act, we want to see gradually whether we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And, of course, I say in your direction, but also in the direction of other colleagues: it is okay to put things into perspective. The Netherlands is indeed a small country, as was pointed out this morning, but the Netherlands obviously matters in a number of respects, certainly internationally. We're a small country with a sturdy economy, with a big economy, you might say. That is why I repeat what I said earlier: the Netherlands certainly matters internationally, but that also means that international cooperation in the field of climate policy is absolutely a must. That's incredibly important. Madam President. This morning and this afternoon, there have been several times here that the law has a number of goals, but there are no hard, manageable targets for 2030. We are talking about a 49% reduction target. When it comes to targets, which are unaccountable, then as a senate you can also ask the question: is there a need for a law? This question will have been put by several colleagues in the group meeting. I think that some people are right to raise it today. However, there may be very good reasons why you opt for a climate law that, at the end of the horizon, as a spot on the horizon, in 2050, speaks of a clear, manageable and, above all, measurable goal. Madam President. I have already indicated that it is relevant to us what is happening internationally. In this sense, I am curious to see the answer to the question as to why only a limited number of countries have so far taken an initiative such as this, a climate law such as this. I thought the D66 Group also pointed that out this morning. It started in England and a few other countries. To my knowledge, we are the seventh country to come up with an initiative. Perhaps the initiators now have more relevant information. I am particularly interested in the answer to the question as to why it seems that it does not live very well among those nearly 200 countries which have endorsed the Paris Agreement. Madam President. In the end, it's not about that question. It's about whether the law is there or not. The main question is what are the plans presented to the various parliaments worldwide, as a result of the Paris Agreement, I would almost say. That also plays in the Netherlands. This morning I heard some colleagues say that the climate agreement as such is not under discussion. That is true, but when it comes to the question of whether the objectives of the Climate Act are feasible and affordable, which is really a question that this Chamber can ask itself, one thing can be seen: the first contours of the climate agreement, which were presented a few months ago, raise quite a lot of questions. These are questions on many levels and questions in many gremia. Indeed, I say with those colleagues who pointed that out this afternoon, that has sometimes led to heated discussions. I thought it was Mr Ester who gave it a special name. In fact, I think he was even talking about "measuring." In a number of cases, it is very fierce when the contradictions about the climate agreement become apparent. So you come back to the question of how important the support is. In dealing with the climate agreement, we asked that question. How are we to place it in the light of the law that is now before us? What will be the role of the States-General of both Chambers in relation to the climate agreement? The statement in the Minister's reaction that the involvement in both Chambers is of course present seems more or less reassuring to me. Both rooms will be informed. This does not, of course, mean that both Chambers have the guarantee that they could possibly make changes to it. Our group is keen to hear from the initiators how they look at the impact of the Chamber on the final climate agreement that will come to us in the near future. Is it just the tables? Is it only the debate that is being held nationally that leads to a result, or can the Chambers actually find something of this? I would also like to know what the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy thinks about this. The coalition agreement talks about an ambitious European leading group. The Netherlands must belong to the leading group. We have read that, but we have not read what it is intended to do. What is the purpose of this and what are the preconditions? What is the context in which we should read this term 'being part of the European leading group'? I would like the Minister to take a closer look at this in his response. If you want to be part of an ambitious European leading group, this means by definition that there is a need for framework conditions. There's no other way. These conditions, for example, where I could think of a level playing field for business, should be firmly anchored as far as we are concerned. It should be a tough demand. Then there is another concern that I would like to take in this context. The Netherlands is one of the countries now included in the European leading group, at least according to the initiators and the government. Of course, the countries that are included do not all have a comparable starting point. We can talk about France. That too is a country that belongs to the European leading group. It was also stressed this morning that the way in which energy is generated there in general is quite different from that in the Netherlands. In the Scandinavian countries you have other forms of energy generation. They have quite a head start on our land in terms of emissions. I am not going to say anything about whether or not nuclear energy is good, but I think you should make that comparison. I am not even talking about a country like the United States of America, which has now announced that it will withdraw its signature under the Paris agreement. What, according to the Minister, are the consequences for the Netherlands and the European Union? Madam President. The Climate Act wants to offer guarantees. The Group very much agrees that the initiators indicate that there must be stability, continuity in policy and let me put it another way: predictability. Everyone needs to know what the dot is on the horizon and that you can work towards it in a stable way. We very much agree with that. But what guarantees are given for this stability? Of course, the climate law is clear. There's a dot on the horizon. But then we can expect a new climate plan every five years, starting in 2019. This year, the first climate plan will have to be published with a ten-year scope. The law states in Articles 4, 5 and 6 that, in principle, every lustrum, every five years, should be provided with a new climate plan. In the meantime, it can also be changed by the Minister. One of the questions that the CDA Group really wants to raise is how the Chamber is involved in determining the climate plan. That is where you will really be able to play the buttons in the coming years. Are both Chambers of the States-General involved in the sense that they are not only heard, but can or should also agree to the climate plan? It is a question I would like to ask both the initiators and the Minister. I thought the D66 Group asked the same question this morning. I have also heard the question from the Christian Union and a number of other groups. We would be very grateful if a proper response could be given to this. If it is up to us, both chambers should agree to the climate plan. I would like to invite the Minister to comment on the substance of the matter. Perhaps you should even think about the systematics that we know of the planological core decision, the Spatial Planning Act, Article 2a. It states that the House of Representatives may table motions for amendments. I don't know if that could be an option here, too. You might also be thinking of a front suspension procedure. We also encounter them regularly in a number of cases. In short, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to see a better guarantee of the position of the two Chambers of the States General. That is absolutely relevant to us. Madam President. Having said that, I would add the following. Others have also pointed out this morning the position we are quite rightly given to the Council of State. In future, the Council of State will also see whether the role of both chambers is adequately safeguarded. Madam President. We've been asking a lot of questions over the past few months; that's what I started with. I am sorry, however, that we have received few or at least too few substantive answers. "It doesn't suit the nature of the bill to answer all questions." That's a neat sentence of the initiators. We understand that. It has already been said by others this morning: if one cannot agree on the answers to all the questions, say so, but at least do not leave the paper blank. I think there are a lot of questions that have not been answered wrongly on that point. If this is due to differences of opinion among the initiators, we have every understanding of that, but make that clear. Last night, at Pauw, we found that two of the initiators had some differences of opinion, for example on the CO levy. That's fine; that's all part of it, but say so in the reaction. We regret that this has not happened, because many of the relevant questions, which have been put to a large extent this morning, have not been answered. Madam President. The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the search for alternatives is self-evident. I've already said that. There's no discussion about that. There's still a lot of solar energy and wind power to come in. In this sense, our group is curious about whether the Climate Act is feasible and affordable, and how the Minister is currently looking at the signals coming from different provinces. That is where provincial government agreements are written, in which people really say that they no longer want a windmill or that they no longer want to make a hectare of land available for solar energy. What do those statements mean, and who's gonna direct it? Madam President. The cabinet has confidence in the bank transfer. We have no reason to doubt that at the moment, but a few months ago we saw that there was a lot of discussion about this passing-through and the prediction that is sometimes made about the effects of the energy transition on individual households. At that time, the cabinet sent in a letter of amendment. It is a good thing that that has happened, but I would just like to say that not everything is guided in advance. Because what about the costs for households? That is a question that has not yet been answered. We've already asked the Minister that question. Others also asked this morning whether a look at the financial impact of achieving the objectives could be reviewed. As far as we are concerned, the answers to that question were very lean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u10	I can indeed confirm that some of the CDA's questions have not been answered. One of the questions the CDA asked was the following. If you live in Germany, you get a substantial subsidy if you connect to the gas. In the Netherlands we have to get rid of the gas. The CDA has asked the Minister if that's true. That question hasn't been answered. There's only been a story about high- and low-caloric gas, but the question hasn't been answered. My question to the CDA as a Europe-loving party is that I do not represent such a Europe-loving party; you know that,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u11	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u12	...but I really know the CDA as a Europe-loving party. Is it acceptable to the CDA that a country like the Netherlands should get rid of the gas, while you get a grant from the neighbours, in Germany, if you realize a connection to the natural gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u13	In fact, I can go on for a while. At the moment a new pipeline is being built with Dutch people for the transport of gas. That's not bad at all; that's fine. We have indeed asked the Minister what is happening in Germany. There's a lot of funding going on. And there is indeed a difference between high and low-caloric gas; I read that in the answer, but we also know that there is a difference. The Netherlands is only the prime chef in the gas kitchen. Any type of gas that you need to roast a good piece of meat, let me just say in the direction of my colleague Teunissen, we can prepare in the Netherlands in the right way. The recipe for gas was actually invented in the Netherlands, by our Groningenveld, our Slochterenveld. In that sense, that answer surprised me. I thought it was a little easy, too. Anyway, we're not having a discussion about the quality of gas right now. In Germany, connection to gas is subsidised and in the Netherlands we have to get rid of it. I wonder, by the way, if that's really necessary. I say this in the direction of the Minister, and I would like to have a substantive response from him. Our group's assessment is that the production of green gas in the Netherlands will be around 2 billion m in a number of years. This would be sufficient to continue to provide the bulk of households in the Netherlands with gas. I am not talking about business; I am talking about households. Is it necessary to use so massively and massively on "everyone off the gas"? I also refer to Mr Samsom's table-built environment, which also indicates that there is a considerable amount of green gas coming. Then I wonder if it is indeed necessary. But I would like to leave the answer to the Minister, who has much more insight into those figures. Madam President. That was a long answer. I've added a few other things...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u14	One moment. Mrs. Klip first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u15	Perhaps a small correction in the direction of Mr Atsma: I do not think we are all saying that we need to get rid of all gas in the short or medium term. In the long term, we need to get rid of fossil fuels, including gas, but in the short and medium term, we need to get rid of Groninger gas. Surely I do not need to explain to Mr Atsma as a Northern Dutchman what is causing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u16	No, someone who lives on Groninger Street doesn't have to explain that. I didn't say that either. I only asked the Minister whether the estimate is correct that in about ten years' time you will be producing some 2 billion cubic metres of green gas in the Netherlands. That would in principle be enough for the majority of Dutch households. Again, I am not talking about business demand. That's what I said. I also see very clearly the essence of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u17	Yes, "off the gas"... Mr Klip also says it: of which gas? There's another thing called hydrogen gas. That might be part of our future. However, I would like to comment on the German situation. I think Mr Atsma also knows that Germany is using this instrument to get rid of lignite as a transition. It's a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u18	Yes, of course we do. In that sense, it is an answer that could have been given this morning in an interruption to my colleague who said that everything is running on lignite in Germany. Of course, that development is very good. We welcome them, too. It is only difficult to explain that you stimulate the connection to natural gas there, and in the Netherlands it evokes the image that everything has to get rid of the gas. To this I say: I think that the green gas is an alternative very quickly, which could go faster than everyone thinks possible. I also refer to Gasunie figures. I hope the Minister himself will respond to that later. That means that image is something else. Of course there is also hydrogen, but we have asked when hydrogen can actually be used on this scale, with all guarantees of safety, and I do not think that can actually be answered at the moment. It's a technique of the future. There are now a few pilots. In that respect, I think we're thinking the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u19	It is not a technique of the future; the technique is there. It's more about the cost of hydrogen. The first hydrogen neighborhoods are now being built.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u20	Then we'll move on to another file. The way hydrogen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u21	Let's not do that, otherwise it'll be completely...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u22	You have grey hydrogen and you have green hydrogen. You have a lot of kinds of hydrogen. But you are right, Mr President; let us not go into that now. The questions about hydrogen are certainly there. That there's potential, there's no discussion about that. The fact that there is an infrastructure in the Netherlands that can be quickly adapted to the transport of hydrogen is also fantastic. Innovative developments are already underway. But once again, the wide deployment of hydrogen is not yet under discussion. Of course, there are many initiatives, and we only welcome them. But I didn't bring it up; I got the question from one of my colleagues. Madam President. I mentioned hydrogen and I mentioned nuclear energy before. I have also asked the cabinet what is the share of nuclear energy currently used in the Netherlands. There's no answer to that. That is a pity, because of course there are open borders and open pipes with France among others. In this sense, we are curious as to what the answer to that question is, but we have not yet received it. The CO levy came by side when it comes to the elaboration of all plans. If I follow the media, I estimate that the initiators do not all share the same view. Initially, the cabinet talked about the bonus-malus scheme, a scheme with a certain incentive, a reward when you were going to wager on it. After the first pass-through and after a number of changes to the climate agreement became apparent, other reports appeared on the method of imposing a CO levy. We are very curious to see how the cabinet intends to deal with the CO levy, because that is something that concerns business in general, especially if the international context is forgotten. Industry and business want to make it more sustainable, there is no discussion about this. And transition in a general sense is not a discussion as far as we are concerned either. Once we had wood, then we had peat, we got oil and then gas. We're in the wind and the sun, and we're gonna be in the hydrogen. That's gonna happen for a while. I would almost say that transition is of all times and of all sectors. Our assessment is that the business community wants to participate fully in this, but that it needs to be given time. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the time to innovate is very important. In this sense, I am back to the law and to the 2030 benchmark, the target. In this respect, it is good that a target is being discussed, as business can work towards it in peace. I will conclude, Madam President. The stability of the policy has rightly been one of the starting points for the initiators, but also continuity and reliability. I am curious about the perception of the initiators, but also about the appreciation of the Minister, about what is happening, for example, in a city like Amsterdam at the moment. Is it or is it not still cars on petrol or diesel through the city in 2030? Who knows? We are mainly concerned with the question of what is still predictable in the Netherlands. The city of Amsterdam is taking measures, but they will undoubtedly have a waterbed effect on the surrounding area. That's where something else happens. When Amsterdam says: we don't want planes, cars and boats anymore, who directs it? Do we have to deal with that? After all, the starting point of the Climate Act is that a stable policy is guaranteed and that everyone can work towards that spot on the horizon in 2050. In order to prevent everyone from taking any random measures, we think it would be a good idea for a director to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u23	May I ask you to conclude your speech so slowly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u24	Then I conclude by pointing out that transition and responding to changes resulting from climate legislation and a climate agreement need not be a problem for anyone, provided that it is feasible and affordable. We have put this question in writing at the beginning of our speech, but also orally, and we are repeating it now. How can that be guaranteed? If this feasibility and affordability cannot be fully guaranteed, including in the international context, then I think we all have a problem. Finally, I would like to reiterate what I said earlier, namely that the position of the two Chambers in the further implementation of the climate agreement and the climate plan must be guaranteed as far as we are concerned. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. You have probably all seen that some of the initiators have now left. They are expected to vote in the Lower House. But I see that at least Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten have remained seated. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. Before it's 2050, much remains to be done. The 30 years before we get there can bring us a lot of surprises that we have no idea about yet. But it is clear that we ourselves have the responsibility to take the best possible account of what the knowledge of today seems necessary to keep the future viable. With today's knowledge nothing seems to cause a catastrophe for the future. Acting still seems to offer opportunities to mitigate this catastrophe somewhat. This indeed imposes responsibilities on us vis-à-vis the world and all its inhabitants, including our own offspring. What we can do, and above all how we can do, is not entirely clear and should remain the subject of research, discussion and decision-making over the next few years. But with the knowledge of today, it is possible to determine the direction in which we will have to look. It seems certain that the quantities of greenhouse gases released by human behaviour are leading to the consequences which we are beginning to see clearly and which can lead to this catastrophe. The fact that this knowledge is present and widely supported by science is therefore not without obligation. That gives the handle to take our responsibilities. This applies to everyone individually, but above all to politics, who can use the ability of the government to achieve goals. The main objective, the prevention of this catastrophe, is, of course, too great for us, our politics and our government. Even for our common European policy and government, that goal is too great. Fortunately, a large part of the world is willing to cooperate. But of us, on our little corner of the world, but with a relatively large contribution to the emergence of the risks and also with a relatively large wealth that enables action, much can be expected. So far we have not shown too much of that. The initiators of the Climate Law Bill are to be praised for wanting to have our responsibility laid down in a clear and binding manner. Now, now that we don't know exactly how and what, but we do know where. So what is being set are not measures, but targets and targets: by 2030 49% less greenhouse gas emissions, by 2050 95% less emissions and electricity generation entirely with renewable energy. These objectives cannot be enforced through the courts, but they are binding. Procedures are laid down to achieve them by means of measures, which are discussed by government and parliament. According to this bill, they are adopted by the government and the results are monitored by the Planning Office for the Environment. This has not yet been achieved, but all those involved will be given their mandate. And to already say that Urgenda judgments are not possible in the event of failure, the chances of success may not be much smaller, but of course not much greater. Why don't we take care of this a little tighter? The stramien is there and that is good, but of course it is the easiest part of the task. Several of the questions raised in the report are raised in the reply note, which states that the initiators may have different political views on them. We are already running into this, because that is where the specific interests of the people, the groups and the companies in our society lie. It is clear that measures are going to cost money. It is also clear that the distribution of these costs should not impose unreasonable burdens on those who do not already have it easiest. In fact, this is already a limitation on the starting point that the polluter, the causer, has to pay. But from that point of view, much remains to be achieved in order to achieve results. A realistic CO tax, including for aviation and shipping, seems to be the most logical basis for action to address the problem. And counting CO equivalents, this also applies explicitly to the agricultural sector, where the connection between climate problem and ecosystem problem is very clear, and both problems cannot be approached differently than simultaneously. It concerns major interests, in the energy sector, in industry, in logistics and in agriculture. Everywhere this will mean that production must be given a different content than what can be counted in pieces, that prosperity can no longer be measured by material consumption, and that economic growth must no longer mean that raw materials are lost by transformation into product or CO. That's gonna be a hell of a fuss to get society used to these new restrictions. It requires a rethink that's not easy. Certainly the public authorities are being asked for very different objectives than they have been so far. But if we succeed, then we can count our blessings, even though we still have to count with a lot of negative and already inevitable climate consequences of our old economy. That may well call for our solidarity. This law is a good start. Now to the first climate plan, which must be taken into account by everyone, but which must not be too modest. A task for the Minister, although the question that has already been asked here is obvious: why should the Parliament not approve that plan? It is precisely this plan that sets out all the essential decisions and thus consequences. I would like to await the reactions of the initiators and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-10.u28	I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment in anticipation of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
