ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	I propose that we start with the debate on suicide in youth care. The various spokesmen of the political groups and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport have been appointed. On the list of speakers it is wrong to mention that you all have a four-minute speaking time, but you rightly pointed out to me that yesterday it was extended to five minutes. Given that I, as your chairman, have a bit of the end time to guard, I would ask you, in principle, to limit your interruptions to two. I am aware of the need for this to be changed in exceptional cases, but there are other issues on the agenda that deserve attention. It's no different. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The other day, I was visiting Noa. She is 17 years old and has a very difficult life. She has been abused several times, has an eating disorder, is depressed and has a severe post-traumatic stress disorder. She's been admitted countless times. Noa's not the only one. I told the minister earlier about Nico Molenaar and his quest for appropriate help for his daughter. How the family saw 26 aid workers and 11 institutions within a year. Desperation grew and when they had finally found the right place, a time of uncertainty arose as the institution lost the tender. I quoted Evi who wrote: "How normal is it that at that moment I have so much need for someone who looks at me, says I'll make it through the night and give me a hug? Instead, the big light goes out and the door locks." And in the Volkskrant, on Saturday, Jason's article, whose title says enough: Don't lock up depressed children, but give them love. Mr. Chairman. Noa also told me how she slept in solitary for months, wearing a tear dress in a cold cell. Not because she had committed a crime, but because she was desperate and the institution did not have enough staff to solve it differently. It is not normal for us in this country not to give young people who are sexually abused, depressed or have an eating disorder, but to lock them up. There's no other way. Some institutions no longer separate, because we know that it is downright harmful to young people. GroenLinks wants the minister to arrange the best facilities for these young people. Invest in youth care and reduce the workload so that staff stays and the absenteeism goes down. Mr. Chairman. At the end of October, in response to my parliamentary questions, the Minister announced that out of the 81 young people who committed suicide in 2017, 10 stayed in an institution. In November, the inspection made a factsheet stating that in that year 25 young people who received youth aid ended their lives. When did the Minister know these figures? Couldn't he have sensed on his clogs that the Chamber wanted this information, too? Why wasn't this document published online until November? Why was this brought to me by Nieuwsuur and not by this minister? Mr. Chairman. The inspection draws destructive conclusions. Young people do not feel heard and there is a lack of cooperation. Yesterday, in a new report following another suicide, it was literally stated that youth and youth care have acted as two separate worlds. How is this possible? Why doesn't the inspection investigate signs that things aren't going well? I think it's hard that research doesn't come until a young man has already died. Mr. Chairman. More questions. Many young people who commit suicide have an autistic disorder. What is the Minister going to do to strengthen knowledge about autism? When do we get a look at the waiting lists? I have been asking for this since my very first debate on child care. When is the Minister going to carry out the motion that was passed at that time? How does the Minister view the recommendation in Nieuwsuur in which a number of psychiatrists state that often there is no treatment in closed youth care? Does he agree with them and with GroenLinks that this should happen? Has the Minister read this morning's interview with child psychiatrist Peter Dijkshoorn, who says in the Volkskrant that we need to put fewer children out of our homes and better help in the family? Mr. Chairman. I think it's too crazy for words that parents and young people should google to treatment sites themselves. What about the effect on a family, on brothers and sisters, when there is a child living in the house who is often in a panic, who is anxious or who hurts himself, and where all the attention goes? I would also like to know what the Minister is going to do so that we really do not put children in solitary confinement from 2021 onwards. What does he say to drivers who say this is unfeasible? Is the Minister prepared to investigate, in the short term, suicides in relation to a repressive climate in institutions and the workload of youth care workers? There are also bright spots. Experts tell us that we are getting better and better at treating traumas and various disorders and that separation is not necessary. In fact, some institutions already do that. That gives me hope, because we can help young people, but then the Minister must take the lead. Because there is a crisis going on in youth care, and that includes crisis management. Will the Minister immediately contact his colleagues in the cabinet and demand direct investment? What is he going to do to ensure that scientific knowledge is better disseminated and applied? Is the Minister prepared to provide financial support for projects involving suicide among young people? I am not waiting for another action plan, a consultation table or long-term agreements, because something needs to be done now and we know what is needed. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. There are many young people like Noa, Evi, Jason and Nico's daughter. They are young people who want to live a normal life, but do not know how, young people who quietly scream for help and who need love and proper treatment instead of punishment. It is embarrassing that in a prosperous country the number of suicides is increasing and that we lock up young people instead of giving them extra love and attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I would like to give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. There's a group of parents in our country who pick up the phone every time the institution calls where their son or daughter is staying. Each time they fear that this time they have managed to commit suicide, to put an end to life. Unfortunately, we have to note that this is still happening too often, including in the case of children, young people, who are staying in a youth care institution. Mrs Westerveld said it: the inspection examined the deaths of 25 young people who committed suicide while also receiving child care. That report is very painful. I quote the inspection: "Many reports report a lack of appropriate care. Often there is a lack of perspective. Regularly the young person did not feel sufficiently heard in the assistance process." The new Youth Act should make this better, which should ensure that children and young people are helped earlier. Unfortunately, that does not happen too often. I ask the Minister what his message is to the parents who sometimes wait for the phone to ring and fear because their child is suicidal and is staying in a youth care institution. What does he say to the caregivers who repeatedly state that psychic care within the youth care system is now inadequate? And what is he going to do to tackle "the constant state of alertness," as one of the youth care workers so beautifully called it? Mr. Chairman. About a year and a half ago, my predecessor Nine Kooiman asked this government to ensure that there are sufficient treatment sites available in psychiatry. Her proposal was supported, but only by the opposition, not by the coalition. You wonder why not, because it is unacceptable that children are currently being taken into care without receiving the psychological care they need. I ask the Minister if he agrees. Is it true that young people are currently staying shorter in youth psychiatry because a place in youth care, with less mental treatment, is sometimes cheaper? What does the Minister think about experts saying that the stay in child psychiatry has become short, short, short? According to him, does that strike with the thought of "the right care in the right place"?, Something this minister always claims to stand for. How does the Minister see the concern for young people with serious mental problems and behavioural problems? Does he think that children with severe mental problems should not be in the youth care sector, but rather in the ggz? Or does he think that the ggz should be a permanent part of child care? And if so, is that feasible? Or does he want to go to more institutions in which these two forms of care come together? That makes a lot of sense to me, but then the question is: who takes responsibility and who is going to organise this? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister to the statements made by Peter Dijkshoorn this morning in the Volkskrant. He mentions successful examples in which not only the child being admitted is treated, but the whole family. I ask the Minister how he looks at this approach. Does he know these examples? Does he agree with Dijkshoorn that this is a successful approach? Mr. Chairman. The final question is, of course, how do we ensure that young people no longer end up between shore and ship, that they are no longer sent as mail packages from one aid provider to another and that children with severe trauma in closed youth care do not get into much more trouble. Much of the solution has to be found since the decentralisation of the municipalities. The question is, of course, whether municipalities can handle this. Is this not what the Minister himself has to take responsibility for, because otherwise it will not happen or far too late? Mr. Chairman. It seems that there are many different problems in this debate. Then I'm talking about cutting down beds in psychiatry and shortening stays in psychiatric institutions. I am talking about the cuts in youth care and the deficits that municipalities now have in order to give young people the right care. But I am also talking about the public procurement madness of municipalities, which is putting constant pressure on the continuity of care. I'm also talking about the staff workload. All these problems didn't come out of the sky. These are a result of choices made in this room, in this building and here in The Hague. I know the Minister is a man of action plans, but I think that the criticism that is increasingly coming from the healthcare sector is that there are a lot of plans, but not so much action. I think it's time we heard from him what he's going to do for this special group of young people to organise their care properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a text on paper. It should be so normal that every child who needs help gets the help he or she needs. After all, it can happen to any child, because depression, illness and disorder do not discriminate. They could happen to any child. In addition, no child has chosen to grow up in a family where poverty, debt, alcohol or addiction problems are so dramatic that the child is the victim. However, we have not been able to help these children sufficiently in recent years. In fact, it's actually just getting worse. Since 2010, the number of successful suicides has only increased. Still, it's quiet in the bleachers. I don't see any reporters. Sorry about those who watch over the screen. The Malieveld isn't full yet. We're demonstrating for other things that we think are more important, and we're actually abandoning our children. I don't understand it so well. Or maybe I understand. Perhaps we have immersed youth care too much in an itch bingo dictionary, as I call it, of certifications, standards, warehouse procurements, complex issues and decentralisations. It's complicated. Everyone's responsible, but eventually no one. Mr. Chairman. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether, despite the fact that we have turned the system and made other parties responsible, he feels genuinely responsible. And then my second question is: if he still feels genuinely responsible, what are we going to do about the fact that we have made the situation so complex that some children are now falling between shores and ships and being transferred to hundreds of youth workers? These situations are unacceptable. I think the Minister agrees with me. Mr. Chairman. The number of suicides has increased, but do we also see the number of serious suicide attempts? Then I'm not talking about self-mutilation, but really about hanging, suffocation, strangulation and attempts at medication. Because I think this is just the tip of the iceberg. Do we really have enough eyes on it? Then there's another question. Research has been done in Flevoland. Of many children who enter a youth care institution, 30%, they do not know why they are placed in a particular youth care institution. Not because the children didn't know it, because they didn't know it either, but because aid workers couldn't trace anymore, couldn't explain why a specific child was placed in an institution. 30% of the children. Does the Minister recognize and recognize these figures? If so, is it not wise to do a national survey to see how many children we can find out why they were placed somewhere? 'Cause if we don't know that, we're just gonna do something. Then the children become a playball of our systems and institutions, and of all the intricacies we've created. Mr. Chairman. Many children's psychiatrists say: children come into youth care institutions and then all get stamps, while the underlying problem is often a trauma. But none of the kids get automatic trauma treatment. Wouldn't it make sense, especially for that group of kids with bigger problems, to start trauma treatment anyway? If children's psychiatrists can also scientifically demonstrate that these children are suffering from underlying trauma, then shouldn't we be wasting time? And then it doesn't really matter if they still have a particular disorder, because if the trauma isn't dealt with, no treatment will be successful. So my very simple question to the Minister is: can we not start on a larger scale with always trauma treatment? I think we can make a big deal out of that. Mr. Chairman. In the 'Care for Youth' programme it is called, I believe, 'the word'suicide' does not occur. How is that possible? Is it a taboo? Don't we want to acknowledge it? And if we don't acknowledge it and don't write it down, is it there? Isn't it time to change that plan the Minister loves? Mr. Chairman. My final questions are about decentralisation. Because the budgets are inadequate and there are too few people, we can actually see that decentralisation is stagnating. Social district teams don't come to their senses either. This is also concluded by the inspection. What does this tell the Minister? What action does he intend to take in this regard? Does he think it's acceptable? And what use are social neighbourhood teams if they only continue in the way it has always been, there is no innovation and there is no real customization, especially for the heavier cases? Mr President, I have to finish. The Minister is very good at action programmes, but I still do not see enough action. That wrings. It's hard on the kids. It's hard on the kids. That's what's wrong with the paramedics. It's hard on parents. That's what's wrong with children's psychiatrists. Everyone gets impatient and angry. I now hope that the Minister will also be angry, and that it will not only be fine talk and plans, but that action will actually be taken. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Impressive that you did it out of your head. I give the floor to Mr Raemakers for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I would like to respond to Mrs Kuik's final point. That was the decentralisation. After all, we are now getting signals that things may not be going well on certain points. A special aspect is also the position of the youth ggz: the psychiatrists, the psychologists and a really good treatment of children who have a mental or psychiatric illness. I would like to ask the following question. How does the Labour Party view the situation in youth-ggz? How does the system of the Youth Act, as we now have, relate to the youth ggz? What is your current opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	Your knowledge of this may be even greater than mine, but I understand that there are a number of social neighbourhood teams where cooperation between the youth ggz and the youth psychiatrists is well established. But that's all very early. It also requires a slightly different way of providing care. It also requires a different relationship to, for example, the healthcare office, or at least the insurer. And it also calls for a sufficient budget to do this kind of innovation. But I hear from local authorities in particular that everyone is in a sort of management position, in other words: they do nothing anymore, because they don't know what they are doing anymore, which means that there is no development at all anymore. And I think the Minister should take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	A follow-up question from Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	A question on the financing of youth-ggz. Of course, a very conscious choice has been made by letting the money flow through the municipalities. The municipalities also indicate that they are really short of money. What solution would Mrs Kuik want to see for that? She says, "You're gonna have to fix that on the city side?" Or should you also look at what very specific institutions need in terms of budget and facilitation? How would she want that solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	Well, and-and. But "how" doesn't really matter to me. I just see that there is a bottleneck and that everyone is now sitting on their hands because there is not enough budget and not enough staff. So let's fix that. You know, please make a nice amendment to the spring note. I'm going to applaud for you, but that's what I want. I know it's complicated, but we come from a time when there was no money at all, and now we come to a time when there's some extra money. Some extra money has already been spent, and that's great. But something more is needed, otherwise things will stand still and no one will be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	An interruption by Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr President, Mrs Kuik is indeed making an impressive speech, not in mind. Mostly I support it, too. I would like to have some clarification on two points. The first point is that Mrs Kuik indicates that there would be a lack of money. Now, on this subject, that is a point that the inspection does not say anything about. Money wouldn't be the problem here. Municipalities are also simply legally obliged to pay for these children. We've talked about that before. So that wouldn't be the problem here. Maybe you can get some words out of that. The second point is the dismantling of residential care, the beds. We've been talking about it for a long time that it would actually be a good idea to guide people much more at home. Mrs Westerveld mentioned it earlier. But we're not doing that at all. There is no reduction in the number of beds. They're gonna come off here, and they're gonna put beds back in there. Maybe we should think about that, about the line we think we should follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on this. Time is always scarce in such a debate. Yes, I agree and I support Mr Dijkshoorn's plea, which is just as frustrated as we are. He says: 'I must not only complain, I must also propose solutions' and this is one of the things he appoints. But that does require social community teams who know how to act. They have to operate in such a family and need the knowledge and skills to do so, and that's where the budget comes back. We now see that in many municipalities there is a cramping. The second point concerns whether or not this is a problem in the case of closed care for young people. Many institutions do not have one task, but a multiple task. I see that a number of them are now in danger of falling, and that has to do with the budget. There is little certainty for the future, and that has to do with all kinds of warehouse or in-house tenders: there you have that itch word bingo again. That's what makes it so complicated: there's not one string you have to pull. But that is why I am looking at the Minister and at ourselves, because we are the only ones with the power and the resources in terms of money, institution and motivation to ensure that we are actually going to take steps. And I think we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Peters, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	Clear, I understand better what you meant. And the word "itch word bingo" I keep in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Fine. Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I would like to give the floor again to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. Some things are so fragile and so sensitive that they are not suitable for a fierce political debate, but so important that they certainly cannot remain unspoken. Suicide among young people in youth care is just such a subject. Losing a child is always indigestible, but must be powerless to watch how one child sees no other way out but to put an end to his or her life: there are simply no words for that. All the more reason for a debate to be subdued and careful, to choose words with care and to be careful when drawing general conclusions. Talking about preventing suicide is always complicated, because suicide is never entirely preventable. Unfortunately, it is, and I assume that those involved have always done what was in their power. But there's definitely something going on. The number of suicides has increased, and quite a lot as well. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the first conclusion of the inspection report is that, unfortunately, it is necessary to examine how that is to be done. There is never one factor decisive. My question is therefore: what is the Minister going to do to get that clarity now and to do something about it now? Mr. Chairman. The majority of suicides occur outside the scope of the aid. Perhaps, according to the inspection, there is more profit to be gained by prevention. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the so-called STORM project in Noordoost Brabant. I have tabled a motion on this once, and I have two questions. Firstly, what has been done with the recommendations of that motion? Secondly, is the Minister prepared, possibly with the Chamber, to go to work himself to see what the effects of prevention can be? 'Cause there could be those effects. Mr. Chairman. In any case, more research is needed, according to the inspection, to provide suitable assistance to young people with a long history of assistance. Institutions specialise in certain issues, but the combined and complex problems of young people make it difficult to offer youth care in an integrated way. Here it seems that we are good at dealing with part problems, but sometimes we lose the overview. In other words, it seems that we no longer see the forest through the trees. Then I'll come up with a theory of mine, Mr. Chairman. Could it be that, in our desire for legality, we have begun to think that we can or can only provide care if we have a diagnosis, if someone meets the criteria proposed in advance? I've interviewed families who had up to 30 aid workers, one for every partial problem. Can the Minister imagine that the buying-in method and our desire for legality could make sure that someone who is completely in trouble gets help for all kinds of problems that may be there, but not for the problem that could be called urgent for him or her and perhaps the trauma that has just been discussed? Mr. Chairman. It sounds so simple. If you want to know what you can do for someone, you can of course just ask. However, one of the conclusions of the inspection is that the young person's perspective and voice could be better taken into account. I find that strange, because it evokes the image of protocols that are being followed and treatment plans that are being carried out, without just looking at the human being. The importance of timely and appropriate assistance for young people and young people is undisputed. Still, it doesn't seem easy. At the moment it seems to be being examined what the bottlenecks are and how they can be tackled. I don't think that's too soon. To sum up, as far as the CDA is concerned, we must be careful when drawing major conclusions. Cases that take place in succession do not have to have a cause-effect relationship. I understand how tempting it is to look at the increase in the number of suicides in this way, but, unfortunately, a little more is needed. What can the House of Representatives expect from the Minister on this subject? I ask for two promises from the Minister. Firstly, is the Minister prepared to include the role of legality as the cause of any specialized research? Secondly, as I said earlier, is the Minister prepared to visit the STORM project in North-East Brabant in the context of legality? Finally, the issue of suicide among young people is of enormous concern to all of us. There's a lot of trouble. What action can the Minister take and how will he keep us informed of the follow-up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	Don't run away yet, because I see Mrs Westerveld wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	We hear Mr Peters talking about the seriousness of the situation. I think we all agree with him. But I also hear Mr Peters say that more research is needed and that we should not jump to conclusions. I would like to inform Mr Peters that several experts say that we already know what is needed. This is, among other things, more money, in order to achieve, for example, smaller groups and better facilities. Does Mr Peters agree with me and with those experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Peters read the conclusions of the inspection, on which this debate is based. The inspection says that there are many factors and that there is not one that is decisive. By the way, I have not read all about this and I have not heard that money could be a problem here. I have only read that the inspection says: there are a lot of possible factors. I want to know exactly what's going on. If money is a factor, it is, but we need to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	I have a bit of a problem with this, because, once again, several experts tell us that they know what is needed. Experts also indicate that we can treat trauma or eating disorders much better than we did five or ten years ago. However, it is necessary that this knowledge be better disseminated, that we have smaller groups and better facilities and that we invest in youth care, which means that employees remain in the sector. So we know that. I would like to ask Mr Peters why he thinks there should be more research and why he does not say: yes, more needs to be done and I am prepared to invest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	I can tell you that last part. Much more needs to be done and I am also willing to invest in it. I'd just like to know exactly what's going to happen. The inspection says draw conclusions. That is what this debate is based on. The first conclusion is not that too little help is being given to children with a long history of treatment, but the conclusion is that there is a huge variety of help being given to these children, so much that the trees stop seeing the forest and that the child thinks: yes, I am not asked what the problem is; I only get ten aid workers put on my roof. That's one. The second conclusion to be drawn is indeed that questions should be asked to the child. You just said it yourself. "I still have love and a hug; ask me, include me in the project." Thirdly, the report states that there may be a need for more training and expertise among the people. The first and main conclusion of the inspection was that there are many possible factors. Let's get this straight and draw the right conclusions. There may be one treatment coordinator who says: I am very good at handling this; we should do more about that. The other nine have to get out. It's not that easy, it's so unambiguous. I would say: I don't need an investigation, I want to know what's going on instead of shooting hail at a difficult problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	I'm a little disturbed by this attitude of the CDA: it's complicated, it's difficult, it's about suicides in youth care, so we have to debate this with restraint. What do you mean? We could also be ashamed that there is this increase and that it is still so frequent. What do you mean, we should debate this with restraint? The only proposal the CDA is coming up with now is to go to work in Brabant. I have not heard from him about the decentralisations and what they mean, not heard about the discount on youth care, not heard about the removal of beds in the ggz. My question is whether the CDA also has a slightly broader analysis of the problem, of the changes that have taken place in healthcare in recent years, or whether this does not also contribute to the growing need of many young people in youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	That's complicated and actually exactly what I just said. You're asking for some kind of string theory of the problems of children with suicide. If only it were that simple, so unambiguous, Mr. Hijink. That's exactly what I meant by: let's do it modestly. For each child there is a range of problems and a range of causes. The situation is different for every child. If we want to solve that, we will have to look very closely at it. That's what I mean by not shouting: "the number of suicides has increased, we solve it by doing more money to them, not focusing at all on how and what, then the problem has been solved," and "let's call it a hell of a shame, then the problem is solved." No, it's a disgrace. Of course. Every death of every child is horrible anyway. Suicide is even more terrible. So let's look at what we can really do. There are a number of conclusions from the inspection. The first is: let's stop the shredded work, let's see what is really needed, let's make people better educated to do that, let's use the perspective of the child, let's stop with Mrs. Kuik had a nice word for it that I would keep in it and now again have forgotten, of course, the itching bingo. Thank you, Mrs. Chicken, for calling it. We should do that and not simply shout here: it is a disgrace, that was it and then we solved it. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	Now to Mr Hijink's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	If only it were to be solved very quickly. My point is that the CDA has no beginnings of a solution and does not want to look back on what has happened recently in the youth care sector. A few months ago, thousands of people working in youth care were here on the Square. Thousands. These questions to this minister: do something about the growing workload, do something about the fact that the rates in youth care are too low, do something about the fact that we have too few colleagues and therefore have to treat far too many young people. The problems are enormous in youth care. I am not asking for this problem to be solved at the push of a button, but I am asking for a broader analysis of the CDA of what could be the causes and for the ggz to be looked at, but that is simply missing from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	A brief reply from Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	Short. I think that's exactly what I just said. I'm looking for that broader analysis. I'm also looking for the deeper analysis. It's not that simple. That's what you're saying. I want to look very closely at what's really going on here. The Child Services Inspectorate says, "Watch out, we're offering the help shattered, not from the child's perspective." We have to do something about all these things. That's easy enough. Oh, that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	We don't have to repeat things. Mr. Peters, you're at the end of your contribution. I thank you for that and would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr. Chairman. We are talking here this morning about an extremely poignant subject: the suicides in youth care. Here's what I'm gonna say. If you hear a story where something like this plays out, when you hear what comes down to suicidal young people who are looking for the good help and how they still have the courage to look for the light at the end of the tunnel... I have great respect for that. And also the parents, when you see what they're going through, how they sometimes really need superhuman powers to keep up, I have a deep admiration for that. At the same time I feel the emotion that also sounds in other contributions. How can we in a country where everything is so well arranged, where we are often so proud of that concern, sometimes see such a struggle, such a search for good help for young people with suicidal problems? How is it that there really has to be an attempt to have a forced recording first? Then you actually have some sort of safe place, but then there's again no treatment. And when there's a treatment, sometimes that safety isn't enough. There will certainly be situations where things are going well and for which we should be grateful, but too much is going wrong. Mr. Chairman. I notice that that lives with everyone, that we are all motivated to the bone, that we do what we can and that we have to do everything we can to find that good care. We need to find that appropriate care quickly. For me that is a common thread through all the reports and stories. There are all good action plans and good research reports, but in the meantime we still see too many people in a maze. I've been thinking about what you could actually do with that. We have had this in the past in other forms of care, for example in the case of palliative care where there is a need for haste, because otherwise things will go completely wrong. If you can't find the right care there soon, you actually don't have any good help at all. That speed is also really part of the quality of care. That's what's going on here. Here, too, good and appropriate care is needed quickly. My question to the Minister is: could it not help to create some sort of chasing team here, whether it's local, national or a combination of them, which, in this kind of concrete maze situation, quickly looks at what's going on, where the help can be found and what can be learned from it to further improve the system? That is actually a very specific question, aimed at the short term, in order to bring about a solution in these maze situations. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet is also committed to suicide prevention. We've talked a lot about the helpline 113. As far as we are concerned, that threshold cannot be low enough. But at the same time, if there are reports, if there is a lot of knowledge there, how can it be better involved in preventing suicides in the childhood care ggz setting? A recent investigation of the suicide inspection revealed youth-spiritual health care and youth care as two separate worlds have actually acted in the treatment of 16-year-olds. Others were talking about that, too. After intensive treatment in youth-spiritual health care stagnated, the young person was transferred to closed youth care and shortly thereafter committed suicide. In addition to the young people from these reports, there are more young people in a similar situation. My question is: if you look at what is going on here, what can and will the Minister do to help youth care as a whole and to invest in building expertise, so that in future effective and appropriate treatment is available for young people with complex multiple problems? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the question about the problem of the large staff shortages. This recently came up again in several publications in Trouw and De Groene Amsterdammer. This has also been reflected in the investigations of the inspection. How does the staff shortage in mental health respond to this problem? What's the perspective here? What I hear from practical stories is that sometimes there is a gap between intensive treatment from the home situation and inclusion in a closed youth care institution, in the sense that the help from the home situation does not actually work, but neither does it from closed youth care. So you're actually looking for opportunities in between. We also hear that in a forced recording setting there is very little room for parental involvement. In a psychiatric hospital there is a lot of room for parental involvement, but there you can sometimes see that the treatment is much less effective. In that respect, too, precious time is lost. I would also like to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mr Van der Staaij. I call Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. Young people committing suicide. They're often boys, sometimes girls. They are often 17 or 18 years old, sometimes younger, sometimes older. They do more and more havo or vwo. They often appear to live in North Brabant, in Groningen and in Gelderland. This is what the statistics tell us, but when you look at it that way, you really see how absurd it is. Young people shouldn't die, no matter what school they do and wherever they live. It just doesn't belong and especially not if the help they needed wasn't there or was too late. Every young person who dies because of it is one too many. But I would also like to say honestly that political suicide can never be completely prevented, no matter how good the aid is, but it only happens too often now. There are too many cases where the aid was not good enough. There's gotta be another way. In this debate I would like to address three issues. What can we learn from the figures, the closed youth aid and the youth-ggz? First of all, what can we learn from the numbers? The inspection received 26 reports of suicides among young people in youth aid in 2017. Previously, the CBS announced that the number of suicides among young people has increased significantly, from 48 to 81 young people. That's very intense. The inspection and 113 suicide prevention emphasise the need to treat these figures with extreme caution. Deep research is needed, for example, where the CBS indicates that half of the number of young people killed by suicide in 2017 has received some form of youth assistance in the previous seven years. Does it say anything about youth aid? What do we know about the group that wasn't in the picture in youth aid? So that's about dozens of young people. There is already a case study in Gelderland, in which it is stated that youth care and youth ggz should cooperate better. Mr Van der Staaij has just pointed that out. How does the Minister implement this recommendation quickly? Then there's the closed youth aid. It may not be realistic to step away from closed youth aid altogether. This may be the most appropriate form for some young people, but it raises the question of whether the closed youth aid is at present sufficiently equipped to offer treatment and how to deal with suicidal young people. There are doubts about that. Municipalities and institutions struggle with it. How's the minister gonna help them? How does he direct it? There are also many examples of young people with a question of help for whom the closed youth aid is certainly not appropriate. Last May, the Chamber supported D66's proposal to set up as a matter of urgency the possibility of small-scale family-oriented provision as an alternative to these young people. Now, in May of this year, a year later, we will hear more from this minister about this approach, but where are we now? What has been achieved over the past year? Don't we lose too much time? Mr President, finally, on youth-ggz. In June last year, at D66's insistence, the Minister undertook to carry out a youth-ggz action study. Unfortunately, we are now reading that this research will not be available until June, a year later. I hope it will be a very detailed report, but I think it is too important to wait until everything is complete. Can the Minister outline to us what information he already has in his possession? What has he heard from researchers or experts? I can say that I often hear that there are concerns about the care of specific and very complex diseases, such as anorexia or borderline. Is that what the Minister hears? Can he make a rapid sectoral analysis of which diseases young people are unable to cope with? What about the youth psychiatrists and psychologists? Are they enough now, or should we also take radical, binding measures, as in the adult-ggz here? Mr President, I am not saying that less closed youth aid and better youth ggz can immediately reduce the number of suicides. We have to be very careful with that. However, we must do everything we can to ensure that action is quickly taken on the whole field of youth aid. When I look at what has happened in these areas over the past year, I see that it is too little. And it's not going fast enough. There's got to be a tooth, and now it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Then I'll look at Mr. Voordewind. He speaks for the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij is right. Mr Van der Staaij and I have been holding this debate for about 12 years now, and the situation is very complex. You will notice, as we are engaged in the debate, that people are going to respond via the app and through Twitter, family members and family members who have unfortunately had to experience this; very painful. I remember when I was sworn in two days later I was at the grave of a friend of ours who had unfortunately died. She was also pregnant once and that made a deep impression on me. Since then, I have been working on this subject. Mr President, at the same time it remains worrying and the cabinet has released an additional 15 million. This indicates the urgency, but the concerns remain high as regards the number of suicides we are experiencing today. We are talking this morning about suicide in youth care, about young people who are in the picture of the government, and there too we see suicides. It is therefore a good thing that we are having this debate. Mr President, you can see the sometimes hopeless situations in which young people sit, and at the same time the powerlessness of aid workers who sometimes do not know what they can do. Unfortunately, we live in that tension field. It is good that the inspection has carried out further research into these young people in the youth care sector, but they do come to a sad conclusion that there is often no adequate care available for these young people. This is not only about suicide prevention, but also about how we organise care for vulnerable young people with complex problems. There is still much to improve, says the inspection. It also points to the regional expert teams responsible for ensuring that children with complex problems receive rapid and appropriate assistance. It is poignant that the teams are still too often based on the existing aid offer, while the Youth Care Action Programme has made it very clear that it is necessary to create an appropriate supply to achieve this appropriate care. Many institutions have specialized, so young people with complex problems are nowhere really in place. That's what Jason's story showed last Saturday. Does the Minister recognize this image? What is he going to do, what are the possibilities to really make an appropriate offer? Mr President, on the subject of youth ggz and the better connection with the treatment in closed youth care, in view of the multidisciplinary problem of young people. There are positive, good experiences and also proven good methods and programs such as KINGS and HomeBest. The Minister also describes this in his letter. If they are so proven effective, what are we waiting for to bring these programmes to the attention of the other municipalities? It seems that there are good experiences of keeping children in the house for as long as possible, perhaps incorporating time-outs, as in the HomeBest programme. Can the Minister promise that he will bring these programmes to the attention of the municipalities through the VNG? Mr. Chairman. Often it is still talked about instead of with the child. Jason's casusism also shows this: a 21-year-old boy, vwo and yet so hopeless. Children and parents do not feel heard and lose faith in the institution. That's gotta be different. If advice from the expert teams is already coming towards the district teams, is there a feedback to the expert teams exactly what happens to the advice? We hear there's no feedback. How can we prevent the regional experts from turning out to be paper tigers? Does the Minister agree that these regional expert teams should continue to be involved from the beginning to the end in order to ensure that appropriate care is provided? Mr. Chairman. The youth care institutions are obliged to report serious calamities as suicide; Mr Kuik also mentioned it. This does not apply to suicide attempts, at least serious suicide attempts. Would it not be a good idea to map these, too, I ask the Minister, so that institutions can be more targeted in the prevention of suicide. Finally, Mr President. Jason breaks a lance in his story for smaller-scale family-oriented care. Vulnerable children should not be put into a system of discipline and medicalisation, but rather show what love is. There too we must speak with nuance, because sometimes medalisation is inevitable and sometimes closed youth care is inevitable. But let's do everything we can to see if we can accommodate the children as much as possible in a family-friendly setting. That is why Mr Peeters and I have also asked for an action plan for family homes. There will be an investigation into the whole of child care and an action plan for family homes. In this context, could we not consider whether the family homes could not be much more part of the youth care system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I call Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mr. Chairman. I like politics and I like the debate, but I find this debate rather difficult. It has been said before, because we are talking about a subject that affects people, me too, also as a mother. I can feel the sadness and despair of young people and their parents very well. Since I am not alone in this, it is good that we are having this debate. Not to catch each other political flies or point fingers at each other, but to talk here in the Chamber about the content, the essential problems and the solutions in the care of young people with complex problems. We saw this happening with the previous speakers. Mr President, this debate should help to improve care for young people who sometimes lose sight of life. This debate should help to ensure that the parents of these young people know better where to deal with their concerns and their concerns and that there is an appropriate answer. For this reason, the VVD would like the Minister, together with municipalities and, of course, the youth aid providers themselves, to make haste this year to encourage, facilitate and enforce more cooperation. In our view, there are only three answers to the problem of cooperation, cooperation and cooperation. Cooperation between healthcare providers, cooperation between caregivers and young people and their parents, and cooperation between municipalities and healthcare providers. Mr. Chairman. I was shocked when I heard psychiatrists tell me that youth care and youth psychiatry are two very different worlds in their experience. Despondent, I wondered and wondered: isn't psychiatry a concern? Or aren't youth care professionals the good professionals if you have a combination of problems? And how is that possible? I still cannot believe that there is still so much difference between different forms of care and how good and appropriate care can be prevented in those hard-working, involved and professional care providers. And if I don't understand it already, what about parents and young people who urgently need help? They probably feel that good and appropriate care is untraceable, and they also notice that. Those parents and young people need a professional standing next to them who can help them by providing that appropriate care and finding that appropriate care. The goal is: one family, one plan, one professional. Can the Minister confirm that goal again? And can the Minister indicate how he can contribute to achieving that this year? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go into two more details: the cooperation between professionals and the cooperation between professionals, parents and young people. How is it that apparently there is still so little cooperation between those skilled professionals? How is it that some people look at each other with argus eyes? And how is it that the child isn't always central? I think there are some explanations for that. The bad image of the term "youth care" for example. That keeps driving a wedge between different worlds. The differences in training, for example, and hence in language and viewpoints. And finally and perhaps most substantively: the lack of common professional guidelines for cooperation in the field of psychological problems and behavioural problems. In some care regions there are already moves to make these joint guidelines. And what does it turn out to be? If this happens, language differences and image differences will also be overcome. The VVD believes that in the short term all these professionals should have more discussions with each other in order to draw up and use these common guidelines. How does the Minister feel about that? How does he see his role in that? I'd like to get a response and preferably a commitment to that. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the investigation of the inspection shows that parents and young people often do not feel heard or taken seriously. That's serious; in fact, it's illegal. In fact, we have laid down in the law that young people and parents should always be able to take part in deciding which care is best suited. What does the Minister know about the practice of the legal starting point of deciding together? Does the Minister know to what extent municipalities also insist on joint decision-making in their agreements with youth care providers? Is the Minister prepared to investigate this further, so that we can ensure that joint decision-making is on the agenda everywhere in the Netherlands, so that young people and their parents are better heard? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, we are having a substantive and good debate today, which should lead to young people with complex problems and their parents feeling heard and not getting lost among the many professionals, but being shown the way in the offer and thus receiving the appropriate help. This can only be done if all involved use their own professionalism and expertise serviceably and work together, work together, work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. Wait a moment; there's another interruption coming from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u41	I do have a question in relation to Mrs Tielen's speech. She says there are three solutions, but she then calls one: working together. Next, she says that youth care professionals are not working together enough and she says that this is because of the poor image of youth care. What does Mrs Tielen say to professionals who want to work together, but who suffer from enormous workload because they have to do a lot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u42	Of course, I speak to those professionals as well. In any case, caring for youth is a very complicated profession. You get involved in families with problems, you have to intervene there sometimes and you end up behind the front door. That in itself is already putting a lot of pressure on us. In part, professionals don't always feel that they can do everything they care about. That's putting extra pressure on you. In the end, it's about finding each other and talking to each other to make sure that the young person gets the most appropriate help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mrs. Westerveld, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u44	I can't tie a rope to this. If it is so difficult to work together, then it is not the solution to say: you need to work better together. The solution is that we help professionals by giving them less work pressure, by investing in the sector. If we now see that it is simply not going well in youth care, that municipalities say they have large financial deficits, that professionals say that their workload is enormous, that there are large waiting lists and that the number of suicides is increasing, does Mrs Tielen not agree with us that something needs to be done in the short term, for example by investing much more in youth care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mrs Westerveld is very consistent in her demand for more money: more money, more money, more money must be the solution. Quite frankly, I don't think that's the point. The Minister is now doing research to see where the growth in demand and the lack of money comes from and where they should end up. I'd like to wait for those research results. In the meantime, I believe that in a different way we have to give professionals the space to talk, to look each other up and to know how the other person looks at things. That is where the solution lies and not just in more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u46	That raises a question from Mr Hijink. Well, you may still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u47	Gee, that's some enthusiasm, Mr. Chairman. I object to what Mrs Tielen is saying about the budget. People working in youth care themselves indicate that they are drowning in work and that they need to help more children, more young people than they can handle. Municipalities are knocking on this minister's door with the message that they're short of money. The trade union has already stated that on top of the previous discount of almost half a billion demand has also grown enormously. They add it up and come at an amount of around 800 million short of the total sector. I'm not saying it's automatically connected to the other, but you can't say that money in youth care isn't a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u48	I think Mr. Hijink says it exactly as I would like to say back: the one is not directly related to the other. The question of money is at least regularly on the table, but we need to understand where it comes from and where the solution is. I think we should have an answer to that before we try to link these two issues again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u49	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u50	Then we're back to the story of the CDA: we're going to do another few years of research. Then maybe in a few years we'll see: gut o gut, there has to be money. Of course, that's all foretold. Child care had to go to the municipalities. By Jan and alleman it was said that this would lead to a greater appeal to youth care because more problems are seen. And what happened? A discount of almost half a billion came through. This sum adds up to the fact that youth workers are currently drowning in work. So you can't say that money isn't a problem. Then it is one of the reasons why I have mentioned the list in my own contribution, which has made the problems in youth care, including in closed youth care, even with suicides in youth care, ever greater. That simply cannot be denied by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mrs Tielen, concluding in response to Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u52	Yet Mr. Hijink is now laying down another kind of causal relationship, where I really want to deny it in the sense that it is a complex problem. That's how Mr. Hijink started out. That's right. I think we should take a look at the contents. In the meantime, we won't get a few years from now, but I think in a few months' time we'll get a little more insight into the budget question. Then let's respond to that when that moment is there. In the meantime, we can get care more appropriate in all those areas where we can already see that it can do so much better, among other things in the...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u53	Another interruption by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u54	I would like to refer to this attitude: you do not know if it is a question of money. The Central Planning Office once calculated that decentralisation would yield 5%, 120 million. The previous cabinet made it 450 million. Then the Central Planning Office came back to its words: decentralisation does not generate money; no, it costs 12%. Then you're talking 350 million and add up 750 million. If you cut such a large amount, about 3 billion, just like that, then the VVD can't hold on to the fact that it's gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u55	I'm dazzling all the numbers that Mrs. Agema is yelling through the interrupting microphone here. What the VVD says is that there's a money question on the table. That's what I hear. In my opinion, we are right now investigating what the question is, what the answer is and where the solution is, because if there is a shortage somewhere, writing an extra check does not mean that it is all resolved. The problems surrounding appropriate care for children with complex problems, which we are discussing today, lie primarily in other areas: cooperation, the fact that sectors need to be more closely related to that child and the fact that a number of aid workers are all doing their best on good intentions, but that parents and young people themselves do not know which way to go. There are the problems that I think we should solve first instead of just writing a check and looking at what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u56	Finalizing, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u57	I put some financial facts together for Mrs Tielen, and that is what she calls "scaling numbers through the interrupting microphone." This also shows the appalling lack of empathic ability of the VVD, which has been responsible for everything. The VVD has been responsible for this stroke in youth care, in these areas. And now it's just about checks that can't just be written out and "numbers that are scrambled by the interrupting microphone." What kind of VVD is this? We are having a debate here about children who no longer like life, and the VVD is talking about "talking numbers" and "tagging cheques." It's a penny issue. There's been a blow to youth care by the VVD. My question to the VVD is: when are you going to turn the tide? When's the bag of money gonna be on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr President, I am actually refusing to answer Mrs Agema's question, because she is making a connection here that I simply do not agree with. Mrs Agema is therefore happy to seek her answer herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u59	Good. I note that Mrs Tielen has come to the end of her contribution. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to an unfortunate word game by Mr Raemakers, we are here today and we can talk about suicides in youth care in the short term, while the coalition usually puts everything on the long track, just like this afternoon's debate, in which we cannot discuss the findings of the KNOV on the structural overrun of the driving times of ambulances for mothers and babies. I'd say, Mr. Raemakers, trip over your words more often. Without fooling around, these things need to be discussed in this house, and smooth, too. That's our job, but it's not. Dualism does not exist in this house and directors are kept out of the wind, with the result that mothers, babies, the elderly and young people are at risk. Once again, I am pleased that this debate is being held in the short term. Nor is it the first time we have discussed the lack of good help for suicidal children here in the Chamber, and I am afraid it will not be the last time. I imagine there's nothing worse than watching your child wrestle with life, a struggle that sometimes is so bad that they don't like life anymore and want to put an end to it. In 2017, 81 young people ended their lives. The number of teenagers who put an end to life has risen over the last ten years. It is a very worrying development that the number of suicides among young people is increasing and that the number of suicides by young people in youth care is also increasing. Then the attempts that fail are not even reported. Some kids do try every day. For these kids, there's just got to be good help, the best help. It can't be that these kids are being moved from hot to hot. It can't be that they're being locked up. I'm not a professional, but it can't be that confinement is the solution. It can't be that these children don't feel heard and it just can't be that proper care stays out. Here we are right to answer one of the questions raised by the Minister in his letter of 11 February: did we provide appropriate help in time? The answer is "no," Prime Minister. That is a shocking conclusion, partly because we know that municipalities are shifting these children, with very complex problems, to cheaper institutions that are simply not suitable for suicidal children. Suicidal children who are forced to stay in closed care are not in their place, and certainly not in the separate cell. That is very worrying, because no child gets better from solitary confinement, certainly not depressed or suicidal children. Unfortunately, the Minister does not mention the responsibility of the municipalities in this matter. However, the Minister may set up an action plan for the transformation of closed youth care, for less closed placements, shortening the restrictions of freedom, unnecessary transfers and no waiting time at the follow-up site, but if municipalities keep their hands on the line, I can already tell the Minister that there will be no transformation at all. That great word "transformation," which has been used in this house for so many years, not only by this minister, but also by his predecessors. The transfer to the municipalities was supposed to be the transformation, but there were only cuts, there were only diversities and there were only municipalities that pushed vulnerable children, the most vulnerable children, into cheaper care. Is that transformation? I suggest that we stop using that word here for the time being and do not take it back until there is a real transformation. Earlier we suggested buying in this very specialized care nationwide, but that was not necessary. The expert teams would ensure that appropriate assistance would be organised for each child, regardless of the complexity of the care demand and waiting lists, in the short term. That didn't happen. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The inspection states that there are still steps to be taken and that there is still too much thought and work in practice from the existing aid offer. It is precisely this existing offer of aid that is inadequate. As far as we are concerned, and this also seems to be in line with the transformation that the Minister is aiming at, the expert teams should focus on creating care that is appropriate. And if we then ask each other whether we have given appropriate help in time, we must at least be able to answer that question with 'yes'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u61	We are still waiting, because I see an interruption approaching from Mr Raemakers' side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thanks for the word. I would like to return to what Mrs Agema said at the beginning of her speech about this alleged word game. We are going to have a lot of debates on youth care in the future, both here in plenary and during AO's. I did say at that time: please let us discuss it together. But I also said: as soon as possible and before the recess. So that's what I'd like to get rid of. And when it comes to the dualism that Mrs Agema mentioned, I put forward a number of proposals in this Chamber last year. They have also been adopted with the support of the PVV, for which very much thanks. Sometimes those were proposals the rest of the coalition opposed. I'm really willing to think with Mrs. Agema about how to do better. I have a question about that, too. When it comes to alternatives to closed youth aid, one might think of small-scale, family-oriented facilities. You could think of family homes and improving the position of foster care. If you look at that palette, where does Mrs. Agema see any solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u63	That seems to me to be a very good solution, but it does require a budget. And a lot has been cut to that, also by D66 and also with the Kunduz agreement. Those beds are simply cut off; a third of the beds are cut off. If you want that solution, I'll support him, but you need to be with your coalition colleagues for that extra budget for those small-scale houses. Otherwise, you won't make it. Otherwise, they're empty words here at the interrupting microphone. The second point is the point with which I opened my contribution. We are here three times a week in the organisation of work to request debates, but these are constantly blocked by you and your coalition colleagues. These are all topical and urgent subjects which call for the same treatment as this debate, but they are all put forward in the long term. We can't talk about that until next year. I'm very sorry about that. This eliminates dualism. Ministers and Secretary of State are kept out of the wind and all the way in election time. So I'm glad you changed your mind now. What did you say? "I therefore do not support this separate request'. It was a bit messy, but I would like you to say more often: this cannot be done, this debate must be scheduled and it must be done in the short term, we should not block it, we should not put it in the longer term. More than 200 debates have now been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u64	Let me now turn to Mr Raemakers' final short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u65	Let us not do this now. I'd like to comment on the budget. It has also been pointed out by several speakers in the Chamber that it is very dangerous to link that discussion directly to today's subject, namely those suicides. That's what 113 Suicide Prevention and the inspection say. They all say: we see an increase in the number of suicides, but we don't know exactly what that is because of. The budget is also being examined, and that's where I'm frustrated. All these tests, it's not going fast enough. But I would also like to ask if Mrs Agema says that things have to be different... The budget is now being researched very well, but it is not just budget. It is also foster care, family care and closed youth support. We need new ideas and new plans for this, including from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u66	Finally, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u67	I didn't link budget to suicides. We have discussed here that there has been substantial cuts. If you put all the numbers together like that, you'll soon reach 750 million to 3 billion. It really is a big bite from the budget, while the tasks are also decentralised and municipalities have to respond to it, which has also cost a lot of money. There's gonna be a loss of business. What you see now is that the municipalities that shift highly specialised care to organisations that are not suitable for that purpose. Then I'm not saying one-on-one budget and more suicides. I do not want to draw that conclusion at all, but you should also see that there is a link between the tension of the whole youth care chain, the severe cuts and the bald blow that took place in the previous cabinet. Otherwise you'll look the other way, you'll be a road viewer. You shouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u68	Thank you, Mrs Agema. With which we have come to the end of the first term of office, on the understanding that I am going to invite the Minister to reply. The Minister has asked for a 20-minute suspension. It is in my confidence that this will lead to a complete but also a somewhat concise response, because we also have a few more things on the agenda. It's no different. So I'm suspending until 12:18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u69	Colleagues. I'll suspend for two more minutes, because the minister hasn't arrived yet. Maybe he's on his way. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u70	I'll take a look around. Most of my colleagues have arrived. The minister's here by now. That's nice. I should like to give the floor to the Minister to answer the first-term questions. I do not know whether the subject is appropriate, but I would like to ask the Minister in advance whether he might have a number of blocks and, if so, whether he would like to make that known. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u71	Yes, Mr. Chairman, perhaps I could start with that. I'd like the answer to be done along the next line. First of all, I would like to indicate as much as possible the facts and figures that we have available. Some of you have done the same. I would also like to say honestly where we simply do not know enough. That's actually the first block. The second is what we are now doing about suicide prevention in the general sense and, in fact, more specifically in youth care, particularly as a result of decentralisation. The third block would be about how we are dealing with closed youth aid and other more complex forms of care. In addition, there is always a block of questions that were less easy to classify. I actually follow the line of the subject of the debate, which is suicide in youth care. Mr. Chairman. Let me start by making a few general comments before I answer the questions in the cubes. Every story of suicide naturally grabs and grabs everyone. This is particularly true when it comes to a young person; that is even more so. I think you have all expressed in your own words the way in which you experience it, the way in which it is frustrating in a sense: why couldn't that have been prevented? I understand that so well, and I share that frustration. That is of course also what every individual story of suicide does to the environment. Then, of course, I call the parents, who have often been distraught for years: what can I do to prevent this from becoming the inevitable end of my child? I mention people in youth care, who sometimes have the same desperation when it comes to young people committing suicide. They are in any case endless with the question: what could we have done differently and better to prevent this? That makes this subject such a delicate subject on the one hand, but at the same time it is also so necessary to discuss it with each other. 'Cause the numbers are awesome. I'll get right on that. The numbers are big and we need to know what's behind those big numbers. I think I will be looking for precision in those numbers, even in this debate, because these numbers do not always warrant a certain conclusion. Then it is about the number of suicides and what we know about them, but also about what we know about the state of health. In the first term, quite big words have just been used. We're not gonna turn it into a word debate. Everyone has to choose their own qualifications, so I will also choose my own qualifications. I'll also tell you why I'm doing that. So I'm gonna do this first with a block of numbers. Dan: What do we do about suicide prevention? And then: what about the closed youth aid and other forms of complex care? Mr. Chairman. Let's start with those numbers. I believe that Mr Raemakers asked what we can learn from these figures. Mrs Westerveld stressed that it was intended that the Chamber should be properly informed. Of course it is. I have tried to do that in all the letters and in all the documents that have been sent to the Chamber. Those CBS suicide figures for 2017 prompted the Secretary of State and me to ask 113 Suicide Prevention in collaboration with the Academic Workplace Risk Youth to investigate the backgrounds of the figures. Immediately after these figures were published, we also organised a round table. In doing so, we have invited the inspection, a number of parties from the care and scientists, as well as 113 Suicide Prevention. A number of interim reports have been sent to the Chamber in September and December. In addition, the Health and Youth Inspectorate analysed 26 suicide reports from 2017 that she received further and added one report from closed youth care in 2016. She analyzed it to see what was going on there. Let me go back to the picture from the interim report of 113. In 2017, 917 people committed suicide. 117 of them were younger than 23. 81 of them were under 20 years of age. Those are also the figures of the CBS. In that group up to 23 there is not so much a significant increase in the number of suicides compared to previous years, says 113, if you look at it over a number of years. But if you zoom more specifically in on young people from 17 and 18 in particular, you can see an increase. That is why the figure for young people up to 20 years of age is different. If you look at the number of calamities reports that the inspection has investigated, of course, which investigates the calamities reported at the inspection, and at the total number of young people, which 81, you will see that about a quarter at that time was actually being treated in youth care. The analysis of 113 shows that in the years 2011 to 2017 about half should have had youth care. The first conclusion you can draw from this is: if we want to take suicide prevention seriously and if we want to break it, only an approach in youth care is insufficient to achieve real results. Of the total number of children, half of them have apparently not yet experienced the exact situation of youth care. And half of half of them were actually in treatment at the time of suicide. What I'm saying now is far too coarse, but you could say that on the basis of the first observations. On the basis of the CBS data, we cannot really reach an adequate conclusion. That is one of the reasons why we want to know much more precisely. Actually, we want to know the story of all those 81 kids. The story of their parents. The story of the people in child care who may have had them under treatment. The story of their school. In what way did these kids send out signals? Have they been missed? How can it be that it has obviously been too easy for these children to escape help that might have been offered? Has there been insufficient perseverance in continuing to give this help? For example. And so we can think of another 100 questions. We find out by looking at these children's life stories very individually. It'll take time. That investigation has begun. It'll be done after the summer. As soon as it's done, I'll inform the Chamber. The second is that, of course, we are getting a new CBS cut out of the number of suicides last year. You'll get it for the summer. So as we have done in the past year, I actually want to do it in the coming year. As soon as we get figures to give us a good picture, you will also get them, albeit we cannot always provide them with an adequate explanation immediately, because it sometimes takes a little more time. But the coming period looks like this: just before the summer you will get the new figures for the year 2018, and just after the summer you will get the results of the in-depth research into all those life stories. This research is conducted under the direction of Arne Popma with 50 experts from different disciplines. So that's a very large and thorough investigation. That about the figures, but I would like to stress that 'want to know more' is not a reason not to get started. I think you emphasised that, too. I also very much agree with what you have said about this. There is one question left for me. In my view, that is the question that Mrs Kuiken is asking, which I am now seeing running to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u72	That's what we're gonna hear. Talk to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u73	It is a question that Mr Voordewind has also asked. That question is: do we also have a view of suicide attempts in addition to the actual suicides? Each year, in addition to suicide rates, CBS figures relating to self-inflicted injuries are also available. Suicide attempts are also included, but they cannot be distilled as a separate category. But often self-inflicted injuries are. A total of 15,000 people were involved in 2017. Then, of course, it's about the whole group, including the adults. The Secretary of State informs the House of Representatives annually about both the suicide rates and the figures relating to self-inflicted injury. And when it comes to the inspection reports, each institution is obliged to report a calamity. Suicide is of course reported, but a calamity with any serious injury is also reported. So if a suicide attempt results in serious injury, it will also be reported at the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u74	You've completed block one with that, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u76	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kuik for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u77	There's a couple of parents watching it at home right now. They think: what is it about? We're talking about numbers again instead of kids. But at the same time I also say to those people at home: it is important to know exactly, because if we know how many children it is and what the backgrounds are, we can also make sure that we prevent this as much as possible. But still very sharp. I mean, you read that we also have figures on self-inflicted injuries. But "children who cut themselves" is not the same as "a serious suicide attempt."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u78	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u79	So I have to conclude now that those numbers aren't there. I repeat my question: is it not wise to have it? For 81 cases where children have unfortunately managed to commit suicide, nothing yet says about the total number of children behind this. I would like that to be clear, also because it says something about how we are working with each other in the country to help children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u80	I understand that desire very well because you want to have as thorough and as thorough an insight as possible and yet I hesitate to say: that is what we are going to do. This has to do with this: if you want to get this type of registration in order in a good way, that costs a lot of research. I really want, and I think you too, to focus my main energy on everything we have to do in the coming period anyway. At the same time, I understand your need for a clearer picture. Maybe this is what we can do. I will look with the CBS and with the inspection at what would be needed to get a clearer picture, and to get a picture of those attempts. I would also like to point out for a moment, in the direction of Mrs Kuik, that I am a little afraid that we will be able to reach a very complex definition issue. At the same time, I understand your need for as sharp a picture of reality as possible, also in order to be able to present a mirror to individual settings. That is, of course, the background, as Mr Voordewind said. So if you'll let me take him as a homework assignment, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yes, please. Then I would like to ask: when will that homework be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u82	I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you. Continue with block 2: Suicide prevention in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u84	Yes, Mr President, because a lot is happening. The helpline 113 Suicide Prevention is doing a lot of very good work. In the coalition agreement, we allocated 15 million extra to suicide prevention. In the Progress report on reducing suicidality in July 2018, the Secretary of State outlined what we are all doing about suicide prevention: prevention is of course part of his prevention portfolio. For example, we are talking about an increase in capacity of 113. That capacity is considerable, and it is necessary, because every day about 40 to 60 suicidal young people under 20 call. They contact us for a conversation about suicidal thoughts or want short therapeutic help. There is a National Agenda Suicide Prevention, in which twenty parties work together to effectively shape and content suicide prevention in all kinds of activities. For example, training in schools. There are a lot of trainings organized, also for care professionals. There's a number of testing grounds suicide prevention, Supranet Community. In addition, networks of municipalities, GGDs, schools, healthcare institutions and young people come together with a new approach to suicide prevention. All that to ensure that the conversation about suicidal thoughts is not hidden but actually conducted, and that professionals have open eyes and ears for that type of signals. It's about sharing knowledge, for example. There is a lot of knowledge and many good examples are exchanged. Fifteen large, integrated institutions also collect additional data to learn more and more about what is now working in practice, including for young people. It's about helping specific groups, for example young people with an Ihbti background, who we know are even more vulnerable to suicidal thoughts. That is really only the general prevention policy, for example, implemented by 113. But I think that a movement has also been set in motion, with this decentralization, which you can say has apparently not produced what we would have wanted from it. That's right. I recognize that: it is. And yet I would like to make a number of comments, also because of the use of solid qualifications. I am thinking, for example, of youth-ggz and decentralisation. There was a time when it was really two separate worlds. The youth ggz was completely separate from the youth care, and there was also zero cooperation. And that was the time for 2015. That was also quite possible. The funding was separate: you didn't have to leave anything to yourself from the ggz. But the other way around. Child care was really a different world than the youth ggz. In the meantime you can see that the youth-ggz is part of that, all the way in front, in the neighbourhood teams. That's very special. That was never the case. Family doctors were always in contact with youth-ggz, but never with youth care as a whole. But now you see that the contact with district teams is getting better and better. District teams, in which you can involve youth professionals from different disciplines in solving a case in a very short time, did not exist at all. That was never the case, but it is now. There are indeed examples of cooperation, for example between De Bascule and Spirit in Amsterdam. I am also thinking of the KINGS programme at Accare, in which closed youth care and youth ggz worked together, and the HomeBest of De Viersprong. These are examples that you also mention, which you can all say have arisen since decentralisation. What's that supposed to mean? That we're already here? Absolutely not. Can you turn off the flag? Definitely not. And yet I can see that the movement has been set in motion in the right direction. Too small, perhaps. Of course, we also see improvements in the district teams. And of course there are many improvements possible in the cooperation between closed youth care and the ggz. I very much agree with the inspection when it comes to closed youth care. But I also see that there is indeed a movement in the right direction. That good side is: the ggz much more at the front, rather than just at the back, involve in the interpretation of signals and the handling of problems. That movement is: neither the closed youth care nor the ggz can do it alone. For the most complex cases, you're gonna have to work together. I see steps that way, but of course it has to be much more thorough. In short, I see that movement has been deployed. I believe, on the contrary, that decentralisation offers far better conditions than the system we came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u85	I just took the letter from July 2018. I am indeed very pleased that it says that there is specific attention for Ihbti young people, because they are more vulnerable and because the problem of suicide is more important for them, but I also take up the glove. The Minister is talking about the youth-ggz. Young people with very specific conditions, I have called them "anorexia," borderline, but you could also think of autism, for example, are also very vulnerable. What I did not get out of this letter is that these funds can also be used specifically for those young people who really have a youth-ggz problem. Can the Minister say: yes, those drugs for suicide prevention can I really use for those young people who are very vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u86	Yes, but that will be far too little to do what is really needed there, I think. I have had the debate on this with you before. We are doing a separate evaluation, a separate study, which you needed on the basis of the mid-term evaluation of the Youth Act. You asked me to take a more specific look at the youth gzz. I have just mentioned a number of examples that are already visible in decentralisation. You asked: can you already see what touches it, where do you see, before that investigation is completed, that there really are still steps to be taken? I believe that in very specialised forms of youth ggz we do not have sufficient insight into whether the supply is actually an answer to the demand there. How do we know that? We know that, for example, thanks to the expert teams, who have the designs of what the offer should be. That offer is sometimes not available. Then it is indeed about very specialized forms of youth-ggz. In short, as I said in a general discussion in your direction, I think we need to evaluate how the LTA, the national transition arrangement, works. On that basis, and also on the basis of that ggz research, we need to find out which answer is most appropriate to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u87	My question was about suicide prevention. I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that the offer for specific youth-ggz in a number of problems is simply not good enough. I think it's really new that the Minister admits that here too. I would really like to make a translation. It is broader than just suicidal prevention, but how is the Minister going to ensure that there is a national direction on matters that are apparently not going well in the next two or three months, as far as I am concerned? Because we cannot say together here: we acknowledge that things are not going well, but we wait until the total investigation is completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u88	This paraphrase isn't quite right. It is also not entirely correct for you to say that it is new, because I said this in the previous AO. Let me give you one example: anorexia care. In this we see that the pressure on the most highly specialised anorexia care is high. Finding a place is not easy, even if expert teams with perseverance in a region find that that place is needed and then translate their perseverance power into offer. In that you can see that, as my assessment, there is insufficient balance in supply and demand in the most complex anorexia care. I'm already working on that. In fact, I am mapping out what should be done with the municipalities. This is part of the evaluation of the national transition arrangement. The national transition arrangement regulates that providers for the most specialised forms of youth care have a contract anyway and simply bill to the municipality where that comes from. My question is whether that works well enough to actually provide sufficient supply for this most specialised demand. So that's what I'm working on. I'm certainly not waiting for tests. I do not yet have a final answer to the question of what to do next. As soon as I do, I'll let the Chamber know. I think that's gonna be sometime this spring. I hope, for example, that I will be able to inform the Chamber in May. That's also necessary, because the national transition arrangement has to do its shopping again for next year. So I think we should be able to reach that conclusion in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u89	Before I give Mr Hijink the floor: were you still in the middle of the block of suicide prevention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u90	This actually tends more towards the complex care, so I think I was making the movement myself very secretly to my third block, which is also the biggest block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u91	I find that pleasant, because then I can see that this block has come to an end. I shall begin by giving Mr Hijink the floor for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u92	For the ggz, one third of all places of residence are there or are deleted. Youth psychiatrists also indicate that the stay in the ggz for young people is now becoming "short, shorter, shortest." My question to the Minister is whether it is true that it happens more often that young people cannot go home in the ggz because it is not safe at home and they end up in closed youth care without getting the right psychological help?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u93	No, I don't think you can say that in general. This cannot be because of the fact that the variety in what is possible of pathways, even in the youth-ggz, is still very wide. That is not possible because there is always a possibility of offering that consists of cooperation across the classical domains. In fact, in other words, you are seeing more and more offers, for example that offered by Accare, KINGS. That's over the domains. The work of De Bascule and Spirit in Amsterdam, for example, is over the domains. The Four Jump, with HomeBest, that's really over the domains. That offer is getting more and more varied, far from good enough, by the way, but it is getting more and more varied. It is also sometimes concluded that, precisely because there are apparently fewer opportunities in the youth ggz, you see more clients with youth ggz coming into closed youth care. To be honest, I think that closed youth care has very often been a meeting place for young people with very different problems in the past few years. That is why I am pleased that you are finally seeing the cooperation between closed youth care and youth ggz. It has actually been very bad for years that it has not been sufficiently achieved. To be honest, I think the analysis is too short. In addition, it is no excuse for referees to leave it at that, because the municipality itself, which is the referee, is also responsible for an appropriate supply to demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr Hijink, concluding on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u95	I am thinking in particular of those people who spoke in that broadcast from Nieuwsuur. Those were youth workers who say that the water is on their lips. They get young people over the floor, under treatment, with much more difficult problems than they had in the past. They say that as an institution they simply don't have the right expertise to give them the psychic help they need. I just asked the question. Does the Minister now think that the ggz should be withdrawn more from youth care or the other way around? Or should there be cooperation? If so, who will bear the responsibility? I find it very difficult to say that every child care institution should have a department of psychiatry. I don't think that's gonna happen. The question is who is going to decide where that is going to be and who is going to organize it. That's complicated, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u96	This is actually the core of the third block. I'm gonna need a little bit more running-in for that. If it's all right with you, I'm just going to answer your question very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u97	Wait a minute. That's what we're gonna listen to, but Mrs. Kuik wanted to do a second interruption. I call that because we had a little thought that we were going to look at where we could limit it to two interruptions, but I am happy to give you the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u98	We have three blocks, so I hope I can at least say something in all three blocks. Otherwise, it would be very restrictive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u99	I'm gonna do my best, but you know we're dealing with others, too. Go ahead with the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u100	So we put youth back in a booth somewhere that we shouldn't talk about for too long. That's what it feels like, but I don't think that's the point. That also falls a bit into the category in which my question falls. The Minister has now repeatedly said that very big words are being used in the debate. He's a little annoyed by that. I honestly wonder why. We hardly talk about youth in plenary. There's a lot going on. Children's psychiatrists, parents, children themselves, aid workers, institutions; everyone comes to us to say that something is going on, that action is needed. And all the Minister can say is I'm annoyed by those big words. I'm getting annoyed about this!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u101	I didn't use the word "irritating."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u102	No, but you do exude it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u103	I would ask Mrs Kuik to speak on the microphone. The Minister is now answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u104	Still, in all precision: I also like to be exactly paraphrased; I did not use the word "irritating." I did say that everyone must choose their own qualifications, but I would not want to make a number of qualifications used in the first term mine. We are talking, for example, about the statement 'decentralisation is stagnating' and about the statement 'it is a crisis in youth care'. I would point out what is happening, including in the difficult area of closed youth care. I want to say a few things about that in a moment, because then I can start by sketching the whole story. I'm looking at what's going on over there. Where the closed youth care and youth ggz have always been separate worlds in the past, that is still far too much, but I also see that new offers are now being made jointly. I have just mentioned the examples. When it comes to cooperation, I also see that we are far from there. But I also see that precisely because of this cooperation in neighbourhood teams where youth gzz in almost all neighbourhood teams has actually taken that step forward, there can be much earlier and much better cooperation. That's why I wouldn't want to make those qualifications mine. At the same time, I think that, apart from qualifications, we have work to do. Let us discuss this with each other. Let us look very carefully: what is needed to improve this care for children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u105	The Minister didn't say, "I'm annoying." But if you call something "too big words are used in the debate" twice, you do annoy yourself. I still don't get it. For I have indeed said: "the transition..." in other words, what we have invented, how we are going to deploy youth care - "... stagnates." That's not something we make up. That's not because I've been thinking, "God, what am I gonna use for a word today?" That is because all these institutions, all these aid workers, the psychiatrists, are coming to us and seeing that what was meant with the social neighbourhood teams is not going in the right direction. The inspection concludes that, too. That has to do, among other things, with the fact that it is still difficult to go that way. We see this because aldermen are being shy because the budgets are not in order, because the waiting lists are increasing, because there is a lack of staff. This is not all your fault, but it is a problem that needs to be solved. We have to use very big words for that. It is ridiculous that we have not had the debate on this for weeks, because it is such a big, urgent problem. So my question is: do not irritate yourself by the words we use, but above all use your irritation to solve the problems, because that would help more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u106	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u107	Mr. Chairman. This is a strange game of words, isn't it? I would like to explain to Mrs Kuik that I did not use the word 'irritation', that it is not about irritation either, but that it is about qualifications that I have seen used. Qualifications of which I say yes, but there really is another reality to be added. If you tell the honest story, and the whole story, about caring for the youth, then you have to put the concerns into words, and you also have to honestly tell them that this collaboration in those neighbourhood teams, which was never there before and which is there now, brings about essential, better, earlier and more comprehensive care for children. And that you see that the movement as it is made in closed youth care, to work with the ggz precisely across those domains, is meaningful and a significant step in the right direction. You have to name both elements. That's the honest story in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u108	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Tielen for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u109	The subject affects all of us. That may also mean that we are in the debate occasionally with a little more, or some other emotion. But what I said, I think we should also try to get to the substance here in the Chamber. I heard the Minister say that he is already seeing very good things in the field of cooperation between youth care and youth ggz. I recognize that. I can see that. The question, however, is whether these things came naturally, whether the system in itself offers sufficient scope to bring together this cooperation between the different worlds within the care of young people or whether there have been certain incentives there, perhaps some people who are in charge there. And if so, what we can learn from that. Because quite frankly, I do feel that there is a real demand among many young people and their parents for this kind of new cooperation, new forms, more appropriate supply, and that there is therefore also a need to speed up this type of cooperation. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u110	When it comes to the development of a structure that also facilitates this cooperation better, for example, something like the district teams, for example, something like one responsible municipality for the whole domain of youth care, where previously that responsibility was very fragmented between the provincial responsibility, the national responsibility, health insurers who were responsible and a very small amount of the municipality, so four levels of government that were responsible... If you look at the structure now, I think that's substantially better. I have also said many times: if you look at the law, the Youth Act, you will see that it is a substantially better and more beautiful law than what we had. We had an incredible fragmentation, we now have one responsible. At the same time, laws don't care; people care. This means that a very large quota of people working for children had to do something different than in the past. The lesson of decentralisation is also: you can change the law, you can put down such a beautiful law, but people are not going to do things by themselves other than they used to do in the past. In fact, the unrest that has caused such a great transition has also really led to unrest and uncertainty among employees, uncertainty of action for employees and, in domestic terms, the lack of elephant paths that had arisen in the past and the lack of each other's 06-number in the neighborhood. It will take time to reset, but I can see that this is getting back on track. However, I also see that we are far from there. In every report of the inspection, but that is not so strange, cooperation is one of the points of attention. So we are working hard on that, too. That is not surprising, because if cooperation goes well, it does not usually lead to a calamity, although that is not always preventable. That is precisely why we are calling for a single family, a single plan. I very much agree with that: one family, one plan, one director. At the same time, it's not something you can say: can I just know when it's finished? Whatever date I mention, at any time, it will then happen that this cooperation has not been sufficiently sought, for example because people did not know enough that there were already several helpers present in the family. That's something that won't be completely directed from here. The framework conditions for this cooperation, across the domains, are substantially better than before, but we are far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u111	Finalizing, Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u112	I very much agree with the Minister that this is not entirely directable from here, but what can the Minister learn from where things are going well, and then help spread that as a kind of contamination across the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u113	Many good examples are conceivable. One of the measures in the Youth Care Action Programme is to set up the Youth Care Support Team. That team started on January 1st. The team has a few things to do. It should, for example, help municipalities in their transformation plans, as they have been made. Municipalities have made transformation plans with the transformation budget agreed for this purpose in the government agreement, following the analysis made in their own region. They then indicated which cases they wanted to work on. There are examples of closed youth care, but let me say something about that. There are also examples of cooperation across domains. Support is provided from the support team. Suppose a region is working on a subject that another region was working on last year and which is already very far away. Then it is suggested that one region should go to another region to see how it has been done there. That's the work of the Youth Support Team right now. It is also about exchanging individual examples and ensuring that they are widely disseminated and widely made known. I'm coming to the third block now. Then I can give a more precise answer to Mr Hijink's question. I share the concern about care in closed youth care. This was also the reason for last year's Youth Care Action Programme, which was discussed in November, although the April programme, to point out that we had to work with closed youth aid. We have formulated a number of principles. This is how we want children to grow up as "homely as possible." Long-term stay in a closed residential institution is not good for any child, so we really need to reduce that. That is why, together with the municipalities and the youth sector, we have agreed as an ambition that we want to achieve fewer closed placements, a shorter stay period, a better outflow, so less need for someone to be taken back in, a strong reduction in forced isolation, until eventually a complete halt to separation. I can remember that when we established the programme, together with municipalities and youth aid institutions, and also with Peter Dijkshoorn who was in the newspaper this morning, I hesitated whether all these things were feasible. What if you completely stop separating? What are you doing in a situation where as a youth worker you see no other way out but to opt for separation when safety is at stake? Is that even possible? Can you get to zero separation? I have been persuaded, among other things by Peter Dijkshoorn, that this can be done, not overnight, because that is irresponsible, but if you want it, you can do it. Then you must be willing to decorate your care substantially differently than you did in the past. The first thing we have to do with this is to get a good picture. That inventory is being carried out at the moment, and I believe that the inventory will be complete in May. The GGZ keeps a very good record of the extent to which this results from the separation. Not yet in the closed youth aid, but we have to do so, and that is being mapped out at the moment. More importantly, we need to get to work, and that is what we are doing in a number of ways. One is that, through the transformation plans, a number of regions are working on redesigning the closed youth aid. In Zuidoost-Utrecht, for example, they want to convert closed youth aid into small-scale facilities within four years, more tailor-made. This is part of their transformation and they are helped by the support team Care for Youth as part of their transformation plan. Midden-Limburg Oost, the same story, wants to reduce the number of closed placements of young people. I agreed with your Chamber at the WHO in November that we are dealing with this closed youth aid. A number of elements have been identified in that Youth Care programme, and your Chamber has tightened that up in that WHO. It was said that we want to see an approach to closed youth aid. With this approach I am working, together with the municipalities, with the GGZ, with the inspection and with science. In this composition, institutions are working hard on this approach. I expect it to be sent to the Chamber in March. I will mention some of the elements that are in there. It is about reducing the number of young people in closed youth aid, including the number of young people returning to closed youth aid. It's about shortening the restrictions on freedom. It's about bringing the number of separations to zero. It's about no more transfers. It is about no longer waiting for a follow-up place and it is about reducing the number of suicides. This plan of action will cover all the elements. It'll be an approach you won't see overnight results of. There are no quick fixes. But if you look at the number of institutions in the closed youth aid and the number of children in the closed youth aid, you can see that it is really only a very small sector. That also makes it clear how to work with this sector. I believe it's 12 institutions and 25 locations. It's really good to get to work with that. In short, we have that transformation to make. There are examples that are hopeful, that can really help us to make the transformation. What we need to do is to work with all those parties. People are incredibly intensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u114	A quick question. If the Minister responds sharply, there is no need to follow up. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u115	Sending the plan in March is good. We've gotten a little crazy. Is there any targets in this? In other words, what can the Minister be reckoned on later? And very briefly, how do large youth institutions deal with this? I hear that there is a great deal of resistance there in terms of separating to the zero which we are convinced can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u116	A few things. If you ask if there is a target for the number of suicides, for example, the answer is no. Society is not a cookie factory and the closed youth care is certainly not. If I did that, I would shy the sector to go along with this change. So I'm not gonna do that. The second point is that it is not an approach of this Minister. It is not made in splendid isolation on the department, but it is an approach to the sector as a whole. That is with municipalities, with Youth Care Netherlands, with GGZ-Netherlands and with science. It is a common approach with the same responsibilities. You may address me to anything, but I mean that it is really something we must do together. Then there is the question about the institutions: does everyone believe that it can be done? There you see a little bit of two beliefs, let me just say that out loud. Peter Dijkshoorn of Accare has been mentioned several times and originally comes as a psychiatrist from the youth ggz. He says ten years ago we thought we couldn't, but because we wanted to, we started working on it anyway. Now we see that it does turn out to be possible. A part of this, part of the closed youth care, says: from the youth psychiatry you can say that, because there is always an alternative in closed youth care but after that there is no alternative. That really is the end station of the terminal. Ultimately, the individual safety of children is really more important than the ideological or political will to go to zero separation. I understand that, too. So I hear what people are saying about the resistance, but I still think that we should have that will and ambition. My goal, which I also set out in the Youth Care Programme, is: finally zero separation. I have also mentioned a target date: the end of this cabinet period. I haven't heard a reason enough to deviate from that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u117	It's an interruption. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u118	Now there are a number of directors who have read the item on the website of Omroep Gelderland who say: that is not possible. That article shot me in the wrong throat. I understand from the Minister's words that he is, hopefully, talking to them. Has the Minister contacted these directors yet? Does he agree with us, and this is what these drivers say, that something needs to be done about, for example, the workload to really go to zero separations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u119	Two things. One is the letter that Omroep Gelderland reported about. We haven't been able to find them. At least that wasn't a letter to me. But that doesn't really matter, either, because the approach of closed youth care that we are currently developing is an approach that involves all twelve institutions with a location-closed youth care. In short, I'm in touch with all of them. Also here: I don't mind. In fact, I think it is a good idea for youth administrators to say: I also want to be able to take responsibility for the ambition that I am being asked to do and for the work that I am being asked to do. I think it is a good thing that people think a little bit about it and teach realism. I believe that if you want to move forward, you will always have to combine idealism and realism. There are two schools at the moment: an idealistic school that says "yes, you can get rid of it and it's going much faster than you think, if you're willing to do your job differently" and a realistic school that says "don't think too easy about it; maybe you can never do it at all." That is what we have to bring together in the approach that we are going to send to the Chamber and which is being made at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u120	A follow-up question. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u121	But, of course, there are great differences. For example, there is a group of young people who become violent. I understand that a staff member on a group of 15 children with his hands in his hair gets panicky and violent as one child. There is also a group, and that is what I referred to in my contribution, which is being locked up, for example children who may otherwise hurt themselves. So they're not violent, they've done nothing wrong, but they have to sleep in solitary for nights. In both cases, institutions often want to change, but they can't do otherwise because, for example, there is a shortage of staff. Does the Minister see that, too? What is he going to do to take away the concerns of the institutions that say: then I need more people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u122	Yeah, I see that, too. There are several reasons to consider it inevitable to use separation, that is so. The example you mention, Nico................................................................................................................................................................... It is a good example of an alternative to the separation. And it's a good example of how it can be done. Of course, workload and lack of staff always affect the possibilities that an institution has. The possibility of resolving this from this room or my department tomorrow is very limited. What we have to do is to ensure that, in the financial sense, we enable institutions to do their work properly, including as an employer. That's pretty tough. It is not so much a question of enabling it, because that is just about funding for youth care, but much more about employers' ability to get into a tight market for new people. Of course we can tell each other that you have to focus on the most experienced people in closed youth care, but if you as an employer simply have a number of vacancies to fill, you will probably also have less experienced people, although with a good education. I do not think that we can assume employers' responsibility from here. However, we can make it easier for employers to be able to be a good employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u123	Mrs. Westerveld can hardly contain herself. I was also very helpful with Mrs Kuik, so I would like to give you the opportunity to put a brief follow-up question to this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u124	We're spinning in a circle. The Minister says that it has not been resolved overnight, but we know that there is a huge workload, we know that the progress in the sector is high, and we know that it is difficult to attract new people, because they indicate that they find the work very difficult. This is something we can prevent, or contribute to, by ensuring that municipalities have sufficient resources to invest in the sector, and by also investing in institutions, so that other facilities and smaller-scale groups can be made possible. That can be solved, but the political will must be there to invest in the sector. First of all, this must be done in practice and only then can we achieve the goals set by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u125	Finalizing, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u126	I get that. I'll come back to the finances a little bit more. Moreover, we have had this debate on finance a number of times, but I shall come back to that a little more in detail. Especially in the case of causality, I think you should be careful with the combination with the finances, but I think there is quite a bit more to say about the finances. I'm about to, if it's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u127	An interruption by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u128	At this point, I find it really too vague. Yesterday, an alarming report was produced from the inspection of cooperation between closed youth care and youth-ggz. There are a lot of recommendations in that. One is that any closed youth assistance institution should have an alert and/or security plan. Another is that all staff in the closed youth aid must be trained in suicide prevention in the short term. I wonder if this is the case everywhere in the Netherlands. So I have two questions for the Minister. One: does every institution for closed youth aid have such a security plan? Two: is every employee of a closed youth support institution also trained to deal with suicide prevention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u129	I have just mentioned in general terms what is happening to suicide prevention and the development of training programmes. There is a very extensive route. When it comes to closed youth aid, this is, of course, part of the plan of action. The plan of action will come in March. You are already asking me to highlight this in detail, but the plan of action is in the process of being adopted. It is made with the youth aid institutions which also have closed youth care, and also with the inspection, which is involved. Childcare The Netherlands is involved in this. GGZ Nederland is involved in this. I have just mentioned the themes that are included in that plan. Of course, it makes sense to include this. The observations of the inspection should certainly be included. That seems clear to me. By the way, I need to correct myself. I have just said that all providers are currently having that conversation about the approach of closed youth care, but I now understand from a note that it is currently a part of the providers. The other providers will be involved. Youth care The Netherlands, GGZ Nederland, the inspection, etc., are now involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u130	Finally, Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u131	Thank you to the Minister for the answer. Is the Minister prepared, for example, to deal with the safety plan and the training programme, but there are many more things to be done and to make sure that these things really happen everywhere, at every closed youth aid institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u132	Mr. Raemakers is going a hink-step-jump too fast now. Partly on the basis of the agreements I made with the Chamber in the WHO that we had around the youth in November, I am working with the sector in a broad sense on a plan of action for closed youth care. I said at that time that this will be available in the spring. We make that plan of action based on the observations of the inspection and of the various youth aid providers. We come up with that plan of action in March. You are saying, Minister, for once fix that all those people have been trained and fix this or that for a moment. But that's not the way I made the order. That is not the way I see cooperation with the sector. We come to a shared approach. Why don't you give the sector some room for that? In March, let's see if the approach as it stands meets your expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u133	The minister already referred to Peter Dijkshoorn and his statements about the separation. I welcome the statements made by this Minister and the ambition to bring that down to zero at the end of this cabinet period. But Dijkshoorn said even more in that same interview. He said to hope and wish that the removals would even stop completely. That is an even more far-reaching statement. Then we are not even talking about stopping the closed youth care, but even about stopping the removals. I am curious to know what the Minister thinks of this statement in the context of his solutions: treat families in full when it comes to the traumas of parents in combination with the behaviour problems of children. If you do that, it is also evident from that research; it is also in the newspaper "Don't put children out of the house anymore." So I'd like a response from the Minister on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u134	I'm a little more critical of that. One. We know, of course, that removals are not without damage, never really. Almost always they lead to permanent damage. Only, you've got the balancing to do at the moment when a request for removal is before the judge. The judge has that balance to make. Let us be clear: there is almost always a court ruling on the basis of which it is based. Especially when it comes to a closed placement, it is always a closed placement given by the judge. That's not something that's decided on an afternoon by an average youth care worker. So there is an opinion from the Council of Children's Protection, enriched with all the observations. Next, it is the judge who decides to do so. It's not decided lightly. Especially when you discuss that with experience experts as we so chicly say, we know, looking back, what that has done to them. Of course they know it was unsafe at home then, but the lack of a safe home is very big, even if that foster family is still so loving. The lack of home is quite large in children who have been placed out of home. I spoke to a number of young people last week about the petition that was about moving and moving into youth care. That's what they all say. After all, did they understand the removal? Yeah, most of them do. But that doesn't take away the loss. In short, the consideration you have to make is the following. There will be something of permanent damage anyway, but what damage is greater? Is the damage greater... Let me put it positively: is the risk of a safe and good development of children greater when they are placed out of their homes in a good setting or is it possible for them to develop at home through a form of outpatient care? In the end, I think it's too idealistic to think that you can prevent all the removals. At the same time, I also believe that with much better care you could avoid some of the removals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u135	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u136	Maybe I can reformulate it towards this minister's ambition. The Minister knows that when we as a Christian Union were involved in the whole decentralisation in 2010, our ambition was to bring the removals back to zero. That's a huge ambition. If you now hear Peter Dijkshoorn talking about the removals and how to avoid them better, is this minister's ambition at least also I don't know if we can achieve this cabinet period... to go back to zero removals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u137	No, I really don't share that. Nor would I like the question of whether or not we are going to meet the ambition of this minister to be considered in an individual family situation. The consideration you have to make as a youth protector, as an employee of the Council for the Protection of Children or as a juvenile judge is: how is the most promising and safe development of this child secured? That could indeed be through an expatriation. Accare's KINGS program is a home placement, but of the whole family. The family is therefore included as a whole. That is a very innovative form of an out-of-home placement, but it is an out-of-home placement. I do not share the ambition that we must necessarily return to zero. I do think that the resultant of better aid at the front and of innovation at this point is really going to be a new approach across the domains, where youth-ggz and youth care will come to a new offer, which will be less relocations. But that's different from wanting to hang your ambition on that figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u138	I like to do two-way interruptions, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u139	Colleagues were also able to make a final comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u140	If you keep it very short this time, then I will see to it that it really happens in two, because we also have a second term. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u141	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget the words. I hear the Minister saying that it would be very good if we could achieve that result. Perhaps then we are very close together, because ultimately it is best for the child to stay in the family. If the whole family is placed out of the house, then of course the child remains in that family. I hope the Minister will at least share that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u142	I certainly share that intention with Mr Voordewind. If you see that figure fall over a number of years, you might as well take the view that that is the resultant of decentralising the organization of youth aid differently, across the domain and closer to home. I'm sure you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u143	The Minister continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u144	I have included many questions in my general story about closed youth aid and its approach, but there are still a number of questions in the block of closed youth aid and complex concerns that require an answer. I will start with the question of both SGP and GroenLinks: how will the Minister ensure that in these complex cases the complex youth aid questions are actually answered? That was also a question from Mr Van der Staaij: how do we do that in an individual case? A regional expert team has now been set up in each region, 42 youth regions in the country. It has been agreed a while ago and has now been set up in each region. By the way, the quality of this can still be improved, but also of this I say that the glass is half full: it never existed. As an individual youth worker, you couldn't go anywhere in a region to answer a complex question. There was no perseverance organized anywhere. There is now, but it can be much better. That is why we have asked the inspection to keep a finger on the pulse and therefore the expert teams will be supported by the Support Team Care for Youth. If I myself get complicated, pressing questions via social media, via the mailbox or via you, that sometimes happens, or if we hear of national casusism that is very difficult to solve, then I turn on the Youth Support Team, which comes to a solution together with an expert team in the region. In short, I believe that we have provided for this, although what we have arranged for it can still gain in quality. But the structure is in place. Ms. Tielen asked about involving parents in the expert teams. Again, this is happening more than before. At the same time, it is not doing well enough. We do indeed have parents to be involved in the expert teams and at all in decisions taken in the context of youth care. There too, of course, there are very good examples, for example in the area of youth protection, such as the youth protection tables that really do that with parents. This is, in fact, as was the intention of the amendment tabled by, I believe, Mr Voordewind on a family group plan in the field of youth protection. In accordance with this aim, they are setting up their work on the youth protection side. We must also draw attention to these examples. Mr Hijink asked what the Minister was looking at the idea of taking up whole families. I know Dijkshoorn does that to Accare, but I also know that, for example, an institution like Horizon has been doing family recordings for a while. Sometimes that's just the best intervention, because a family system as a whole doesn't work well. If the only alternative would be removal, the damage is sometimes very large. So it helps to get an entire family into therapy. That depends very much on the exact family situation. Sometimes therapy is simply not a solution and there is only one way to ensure safety and that is actually out of the house. I have just said a number of things about the different worlds of closed youth care and youth ggz. I think that these really fine examples of a joint offer really come about. Apart from that, I see that, for example, calling in ggz at a closed youth care facility is taking shape. This sometimes happens by placing a handler there, sometimes by making an appointment because it is an institution that provides both kinds of care within the institution, and sometimes by making arrangements with an institution in the neighborhood. Only about the way, I share the observation of the inspection very much: it really needs to be better. I also really want this element to be included in that approach closed youth aid, because there is real work to be done. In that case, family-oriented care has been mentioned. I believe that Mr Voordewind asked us to look at this in conjunction. In conjunction always, of course, but these are two questions that have come to me from the Chamber. I actually have to give two answers to that. On the one hand, we have the approach to do youth aid with all the ingredients that we have just appointed together. In addition, we have the approach of family-oriented care to do, because it is not always the same. The question is whether family-oriented care can also be an answer for children with closed placements. This requires a great deal of family-oriented care. There, too, we see a development in the right direction. In May there will be a plan of action. 250 small-scale institutions were added last year. Not without concern, because the inspection also says that it is quite complicated to guarantee quality in a small-scale institution. But that movement is definitely in there. In my opinion, 3,500 children were received there last year; that is more than 500 more than the year before. So the movement is moving in the right direction, although the inspection still cares about the attention and care needed for the quality of that small-scale care. I think the inspection has a point there. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered the questions in this block. Then I have one block of other important questions, which I disrespectfully called "other."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u145	I still see a question from Mr Hijink about the third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is when does the inspection itself investigate deaths in the youth care sector? If I understand correctly, the inspection does do research when there is suicide in closed youth care or after a measure, but not standard when there is suicide in youth care. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u147	The inspection always works in the way laid down in the law: once there is a calamity, which is a death or serious injury, the institution is obliged to report it to the inspection. The institution is then obliged to carry out investigations on behalf of the inspection. The conditions under which that investigation is carried out shall be aligned with the inspection. For example, the inspection may say: you should have this examined as an institution, but you should elect an external chairman for the Committee of Inquiry. That shape happens. Exception to that is suicide in closed youth aid. In the case of closed youth aid, the inspection always carries out its own investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u148	Would it not then be logical that, in the case of suicide, the inspection always conducts its own investigation into the state of affairs and the circumstances in which that happened? We want to reduce the number of suicides. Then you'd rather not have the institution within which that happened do that investigation yourself. Then perhaps it would be wise for all suicides to have the inspection look at the circumstances under which this could have happened. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u149	No, I do not agree with that, for the reason that has been used with the supervision, namely, "Just recently', but for a number of years now you have wanted an institution to learn from it. That is what the inspection, supervision and the Court of Auditors say about supervision: an institution must learn from supervision. The way things are going is that an institution first of all makes an evaluation report on a calamity itself. This is sometimes done under the external Presidency, just to ensure quality. The inspection will then check whether the institution has done this properly. Has calamity been properly analyzed? Are the improvement measures really a response to the analysis being made? A new supervisory arrangement is then agreed. The experience is that that is the right combination to make sure that something is learned from it. In the past, it did happen that someone else had an opinion on what an institution should do differently and better, and the institution was mostly opposed to it. For example, the idea was that the evaluating party lacked a number of factors which should have been included in the analysis. Now the analysis of the institution itself comes from, although the quality of that analysis is the subject of discussion between institution and inspection. The same applies to the quality of the improvement measures and the arrangements for the follow-up arrangement. In short, I am inclined to say that here is actually the same thing as in the health inspection at all. The point is that learning has to be central, because you have to want to get better than you were and you have to want to learn from your mistakes. And for that, this works best, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u150	I have another question about those regional expert teams. Can they also play a role in supporting parents of suicidal young people who are desperately looking for good help for their child?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u151	Yes, it is, because that frustration of parents is also reflected in the provision of youth aid. If parents' observation is that there is no real answer to their child's care question, that conversation is of course possible. The phone numbers are just on the website. I just think that, frankly, these are not the structures used by parents. You approach as a parent, I think, much faster and rather the helper you trust most, or for example the general practitioner who knows your family and your concerns well. So I think that this is more often and that this is more important. Client organisations have also recently expressed this in an administrative consultation. Do parents always know where they can go, and are the structures that are now in place for parents sufficiently clear? I've also agreed with them that we're going to put that in the picture together. I honestly think that there is a lot, and yet I do not rule out the fact that it is not always clear to parents who they can turn to when they are so worried that they really do not know what to do. When I am out of that with them, I will also inform you about it, because this question lives wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u152	That seems to me to be a very valuable commitment. I would also very much like to know, if we come into contact with these situations, what is the best advice now to get this help as soon as possible. Just when you have the idea that you're being sent a little from the cabinet to the wall, and you're talking to several people, you don't know at some point what the best and fastest route is. So I'd like to get more clarity about that very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u153	I get that. The offer that already stood stands. If you are dealing with complicated cases, then pass them on to me, so that I can get on with them and make sure that enough is learned from them. If there are several cases that actually all have a common thread, you also have to work with that red thread. So that offer doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u154	Then we have another interruption from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u155	I would like to refer to the questions that Mr Hijink of the SP has just asked about the investigation of the inspection. The inspection investigates the moment a younger person dies, but if someone decides to commit suicide, it's not just a matter of reason. Then the environment already knows that there is a lot going on and there are often also parents who already ring the bell at the inspection and at all the agencies they can find. Wouldn't it make much more sense to make it possible in one way or another for parents or other people who see it going wrong to knock on someone's door and for the inspection to see if there is sufficient care being given to these young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u156	But we can, because at the inspection we have the National Health Dispatch. There can also be reported individual complaints or concerns about current aid, such as "I have the idea that it is not good enough" or "I have the idea that they are missing things." It's possible, isn't it? With all the care we have in the Netherlands, such situations can arise. But the infrastructure of the National Health Service Department exists. The inspection shall monitor risk-oriented and include complaints or individual reports about institutions in the assessment of which institution it should first examine in the context of risk-based supervision. So we have emergency surveillance. That's a variant of surveillance. In addition, we have risk-based supervision. And we also have the individual reports that all people in the Netherlands can make. Such a report doesn't even have to be about their own situation. It may also be a situation that they see, for example, in the neighbors. That too can and does happen. The number of notifications and the type of notifications shall also be involved in risk-based monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u157	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u158	I know reports can be made in several places, but only when a young person has died will there be an extensive investigation of the inspection. I think we've all read some of those studies recently. That often leads to very harsh conclusions. Then my question is: shouldn't we be ahead of that? Should we not ensure that the inspection can intervene at a much earlier stage and ensure that parents and young people are heard before it is too late and not only afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u159	Yes. You can and you will. That's exactly what I'm saying. An institution is required to report a calamity under certain conditions. Fatal outcome, serious injury: these are the calamities in which an institution is obliged to report them. Two, you have risk-oriented surveillance. The risk-based approach of an institution shall involve the notifications. If an individual report gives rise to an investigation, even if there is no actual suicide at issue, which is to assess the inspection itself, of course, then the inspection will also carry out that investigation. That happens, too. So it all happens. Moreover, the type of investigation most frequently carried out by the inspection is calamity research, because there is often a different solution to individual complaints, or intervention other than the conduct of an investigation. Often, another intervention is also faster. It is common for the inspection to actually visit an institution based on a notification to the Dutch National Health Service, because when she reports it she will hear things that she wants to see on the spot about what is true. Perhaps it is good to supplement the closed youth care in the coming months is again the subject of research. That's more of a thematic investigation of the inspection. I think that would give rise to a report or a factsheet. That will be available by the summer. As soon as I have it available or as soon as it is available, I will see to it that your Chamber receives it, particularly in response to Mrs Westerveld's comments. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to go to the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u160	My proposal would be that you simply answer all the other questions and then we will see if there are any further interruptions. Otherwise, we'll go into the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u161	As a result of the interruption just now by Mrs Westerveld, but also a number of interrupting debates during the first parliamentary term, I would like to mention the budgets. One, I think we should be careful about causal relationships between money and outcomes. I think that's what everyone thinks. Outcomes in the sense of actual concerns that exist. At the same time, of course, they are not completely separate; I understand that when Mrs Westerveld says so. Besides, that's what every youth care institution and every municipality will say to you. Two, of course, I know the signal from municipalities that there is not enough budget, given the increased number of children to be helped in youth care. At the same time, the law doesn't work so well that you have a youth aid obligation as a municipality, unless you think you're getting too little money. You just have a juvenile duty as a municipality. I also see that municipalities are fulfilling this youth aid obligation in this way. That is precisely the reason why municipalities sometimes have deficits for which we have to find a solution. We have agreed that we are going to analyse these deficits in a good way. What exactly is the volume growth as it actually happened? This is because these figures cannot be interpreted so clearly. That's one. Two is, we are analysing the Iv3 figures, so the exhaustion figures from the social domain at the end of the year. In addition, we are doing a more precise study in municipalities to learn well whatever the choices of municipalities contribute, or not, to a possible shortage of youth aid. Those three investigations I've arranged with your room. Those three studies will meet in the spring. I believe they will be completed in May. Then I will also inform the Chamber about the outcome because I will discuss it on the basis of that outcome. In previous debates, because I think we have already discussed this once or three, four, five times, I indicated that the results of those studies could indeed lead to the conclusion that it is necessary to look at money. I'm not running away from that, and at the same time I'm not getting ahead of myself. I have also said before that money will never alone be the answer to the observations you make the moment you do this type of research. Finally, we will also assess this type of research against the background of the financial choices we have already made as a cabinet. That is that budget has been made available for the deficits in 2018; that was the 200 million. In addition, apart from the transformation budgets that have also been made available in the government agreement of 108 million, there is, of course, also a significant increase in the Municipal Fund. This is a conscious choice that was made at the start of the cabinet, also in consultation with the VNG, not to make it a separate flow of money per problem, but to make an integral choice for an increase in the Municipal Fund. That is, with about 1 billion a year and five years in a row, a very substantial increase in the Municipal Fund. Again, I'll get back to you, I won't run away from it if I have to, I won't get ahead of it either. From the family-oriented care action plan, I agreed with you in the WHO that this would be May. I'm gonna need that time, too. Once again, that is not an answer to the questions raised in the closed youth aid. Those are really two different elements, but it is coming; I am trying to give that to your Chamber in May. I would like to ask Mrs Kuik whether it is not desirable to always check whether there is a trauma in children with mental problems. I understand very well what you are saying there, because I do agree with you, and I cannot do that, and I do not have any figures for this: that trauma screening and trauma assistance are indeed often too late, or sometimes not at all, and that would be the reason for that. We know that, for example, in our approach to domestic violence and child abuse, many of the children who, for example, go with their mother to the women's shelter, and therefore have often witnessed domestic violence, have not had a standard trauma screening. So what we have said in the context of this approach is that for the children who have been involved in Safe Home, the children who have been involved in the women's shelter, we must go to the situation that many more children, if not all children who have had this situation, always have a trauma screening to know if you have to take care of it. Then let me take the step to the closed youth aid. Of children whose hard-to-hand behavior actually has an untreated trauma as a basis, we know that it is possible that the trauma gets deeper when they get into the separation. That's often the situation. It is precisely for this reason that trauma aid needs to go much more to the front and we need, for example, to have a much better view on children in the women's shelter, but also on children who are reported at Safe Home, through trauma screening. Moreover, I do not have the very last answer to the question of how to shape this precisely, because it is quite difficult in logistics to regulate it properly. I would like to come back to that in the direction of Mrs Kuiken, because I actually do not know how to support it very well, but I do agree that we really do miss things there. Then Mr Peters. Who asked whether it might be that, in our desire for legality, we have begun to think that we can or cannot provide care until we have the right diagnosis and if someone meets the pre-established criteria. That is a simple question, but at the same time a very difficult one. The first answer is: I see it differently, because under the law it is not. But that is too easy, because at the same time I do see that, sometimes unintentionally, all kinds of purchasing arrangements allow the aid to be started only after another aid worker has stopped. That's an example I found in Friesland last Monday when I was there doing a scraping on administrative burdens you're running into. Administrative burdens are often also really hampering content. This example came by there. I think it's soluble in itself. Indeed, I sometimes see that agreements are made in the procurement process, based on legality, which may hinder implementation. It's just that it's so hard to do anything about it from here. It is only possible if you sit down in a region with youth aid professionals and the purchasing party, i.e. the municipality or the municipal partnership, to see what you run into in the implementation practice. We are, of course, doing so in the context of reducing administrative burdens. How could you possibly get rid of it? Then these kinds of examples come up. I'd really like to get to work on that. We also know that, when these kinds of examples come to municipalities, alternatives are provided with the support team Care for Youth, because they are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u162	You'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u163	Finally, Mr Raemakers. I had just answered his question very briefly. He asked about the youth-ggz action study. This is currently being implemented as agreed. I can't report any intermediate results. At the same time, of course, I do make a number of observations, for example with regard to closed youth care. I believe that there is room for improvement in the cooperation between closed youth care and youth ggz, although I see a beautiful movement being put in place there. That's one. Secondly, with regard to a number of very specialised forms of youth aid, I am really concerned about supply and demand. I just mentioned anorexia care in your direction, for example. Of course, we're already working on that. We're not gonna wait till there's a staple through the pile of paper. We are already working on it to see what we could do differently and better in it. That's some initial observations. At the same time, I see something very positive. You see that the ggz makes the move to the front, makes the move to the neighborhood teams, makes the move to a POH-youth-ggz. You see collaborations between the youth ggz and other forms of youth aid that have never actually been there in the past. Mrs Tielen's question about professionalism was: do you want to speed up the discussion of professional groups in order to establish common frameworks so that they can work better together? The shortest answer is yes. Professional associations in the youth sector, which I speak with some regularity, are also keen to focus on this congruence of standards of care and guidelines. You are absolutely right that there really is a different language spoken there. In particular, youth psychiatry and youth aid have a very different background and there is really a different language spoken. As that language becomes the same, that helps great, of course, also in cooperation. It also helps the inspection to steer and assess this integrity. We are also going to support this financially. Does the Minister know the Flevoland study showing that 30% of the placed children were not known why the children were placed there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u164	Can I help you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u165	I see here that I know the research, but the honesty is to say that we obviously know the research in the department but that I have not read it myself. I understand that Accare did that research on Flevoland's proposal. The reason for Flevoland was that many children were placed in the closed youth aid. So it is very good that the municipality did that research. File checks showed that 30% of the children placed had no clear reason why they were placed there. If you ask me, do I understand that? Frankly, I don't understand anything. So I'm actually gonna read that research myself. Indeed, when it comes to access to closed youth care, an authorisation must always be given. You really don't get an authorization-closed placement to sweat feet. So there is something very serious, something serious going on. You have to prove that an authorisation is needed to prevent damage to yourself or to others. In short, that the reason would be unknown why children are in the closed youth aid, sounds strange to me. So I want to see that investigation for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mrs Kuik, we have indicated that we are only doing the interruptions at the end of the block, unless you say that the question has been misunderstood by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u167	I'll wait. I'll put it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I'll go to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u169	Then there is the question of the SGP about staff shortages in the ggz. The Secretary of State responded to that last week. In general terms, of course, staff shortages in care can ultimately affect the quality of care and the workload in care. Of course it's true. At the same time, it is also a question of how an employer anticipates these deficits. Having a shortage of staff is no excuse for creating an unsafe situation. Of course, that cannot be the case. If you as an employer feel that you can no longer guarantee care in a safe or responsible way, you have the responsibility to provide transfer or not to accept a child, for example. The staff shortages are high and we are doing everything we can to ensure that they are resolved. There's a huge approach. At the same time, we also know that staff shortages in care are very persistent. So I'm afraid to promise you that we'll solve them everywhere, and I'm not gonna promise you that either. That is why I have no choice but to say that employers have a responsibility here. Either one knows how to anticipate this shortage of staff, luckily many employers are doing so too, or one has to be clear in the direction of referees: given the shortage of staff, I will not succeed in ensuring the safety of this child. Then I come to the SGP's question about involving parents more in the treatment of their children. That's absolutely true; or an affair with a parent really had to be destructive. However, often involving a parent in the treatment increases the effectiveness of the treatment. So I'm very much in favour of that. Fortunately, we also see more and more approaches, more and more treatments, which include parents, because without parents it is impossible. Fortunately, that idea has become more and more postulated. Mrs Westerveld has said a number of things and asked about the handling of waiting lists. We have, of course, talked about waiting lists and what we are doing about them. The waiting list approach is one of the topics in which the support team supports care for young people at the moment. This concerns, for example, the regional expert teams that help to break into a waiting list situation. It is also about having a waiting list approach in the region at all. That was a condition to qualify for the Transformation Fund. In itself, all regions do have a waiting list approach, but it is not always a super good one. So we have to send them to get better. You could say that waiting lists have always been there because, in a sense, there is always scarcity. It is also not necessarily a bad thing to have to wait until the right place is available, but in some situations it is quite urgent. In the region, the situation must be such that when acute care is called for, it is always acutely available. In this way, you should want to look at and support a regional waiting list approach. Regions themselves have this approach, we have to check that this approach is there and we have through the Youth Support Team to ensure that it becomes an ever better approach, in which municipalities are also helped. I will report on this in the next progress report, due in June. Will the Minister investigate the relationship between suicides and repressive measures in juvenile care? Look, we are working on reducing separation and reducing repressive measures in closed youth care for a reason. We do this by first giving a good idea of what the uniform definition of forced isolation is. We register that and that will be available at the end of May as part of the approach closed youth care. In addition, the inspection will conduct research into closed youth aid in the coming months. I therefore believe that this issue is sufficiently visible. I also think that the one-to-one relationship of suicidal and repressive measures will not be very easy to implement. We like to do it along this road. Finally, the question of the Christian Union, SGP and CDA: Do you want to bring methods such as KINGS and Homebest to the attention of the municipalities? I'd love to. I do this, among other things, through the Youth Care Support Team, and I do so in the approach closed youth aid. Mr President, I am 'other' at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u170	Then we'll move on to the interruptions. Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u171	To understand what's going on, I find it interesting to see what happens to the pennies. What happens to the money? One of the conclusions of the inspection was that care for children who would be suicidal is not given too little, but too fragmented and not the right care. That's an introduction to the following. Since 1950 I've Googled that. We're looking for less residential places, and there are still just as many. Since 1970 we have been talking about one family, one plan, but it is not possible: it is still so fragmented. In my view, and there is a specific commitment from the Minister on this matter, it is because we see problems that we want to solve by means of a route which we are buying in very specifically. I see a problem, there's got to be a solution, and I'm buying it. That works fine for one problem, but in twenty problems we literally no longer see the forest through the trees. In my opinion, some of these children's problems are simply in the way they buy and later in the way they answer. I'd like a reflection on that. If that reflection is fine, then it is fine with me, but otherwise I ask for an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u172	If I really had a reflection on this, I fear that the President would intervene because it would tend to become full-bodied. You don't have to. There are a number of ways to make a purchase, and one is more sensible than the other when it comes to the difference in the route you purchase. We come from a situation where we had relatively little insight into what was actually bought in. At the same time, however, the only good thing that has emerged from this is that municipalities are being forced to articulate their demand more and more. What you learn from that is that you can improve purchasing if you think about what question you're actually talking about. I say 'can', because in the meantime it is still possible to make sensible and less sensible choices. In the programme Care for Youth and in addition in the approach to procurement I have informed the Chamber about this.We are very strongly on our way with municipalities and with providers together and we look at: if you choose this as a municipality, this is the effect that providers notice and this is the effect on the quality of the youth assistance. That is precisely the approach we are taking, regardless of the route to Brussels, to see if we can get more room within the procurement rules, namely to exclude the whole social domain from it. Now we look within the current procurement rules as they apply or can be dealt with more wisely. Then you can see that there are indeed municipalities that are more sensible than others and can be learned from that. This is the shortest version I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u173	That version is short. My point is that the inspection for the youth sees... Institutions are starting to specialise more and more. Of course, they're going to focus on the often single question a municipality asks. If we conclude that the problem for children is that they have a lot of specialized help... I interviewed a family. Several specialists come to see a partial problem, because they are paid for and also paid for. That's just not the way. Since 1970, we've been talking about one family, one plan. I can see it's only getting worse. Isn't it useful to say something a little louder about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u174	Let me deal with this with Mr Peters. When I meet Mr Peters, I get into a fight with the President and when I meet the President, I get into a fight with Mr Peters. Life isn't always easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u175	You're gonna do something in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u176	Let me say that I am giving the outline that Mr Peters is asking for, but I will think about it better. I do this on the basis of what we are already encountering in support of the procurement we give to municipalities. I'm going to give you a sketch of what does and what doesn't work and what actually works counter-productively. Choices that can still be understood on their own from purchasing and legality, but which you see actually have an undermining effect on the quality of care. I'm going to give that consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u177	And on what time can you give that consideration to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u178	Oh, dear, I'll be held to a target right away. Will you give me a month or two for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u179	I am looking at Mr Peters. We're gonna give a maximum of two months for that. Then there's another interruption from Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u180	There are two questions that have been answered. I'm trying to keep it compact. One concerns trauma screening and trauma treatment. The Minister agrees with me that it is happening too late now. In many cases, you would like to start trauma treatment because the trauma is actually obvious. At the same time, the Minister also says: I don't know how yet. It's possible. It happens to all of us in life. At the same time, I would like a little more perspective on this. Can the Minister indicate how he is going to give hands and feet about this? Is he dating some people? Are we going to start a large-scale pilot? How and how? That's my first question. Then I will ask my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u181	We are, of course, working on it very specifically within the framework of the domestic violence and child abuse programme. In addition, we say: we want to ensure that in all cases where this is relevant, there is, at least, ordinary trauma screening at the Safe Home Organisations and the women's shelter. If that leads to the need for trauma treatment, that treatment should be initiated. That is a fairly easy sentence to say, but in his execution in practice it is quite complicated. But that's what we're doing. Jan-Dirk Sprokkereef, who is director of the domestic violence and child abuse programme, is working on this on behalf of the commissioning parties. In addition, with what we do at that point in mind, I want to work with the professional platform around craftsmanship. How could we, with a slanted eye on what we are doing in the context of domestic violence and child abuse, ensure that we can do trauma screening and trauma treatment much earlier and much more comprehensive in the area of youth care where it is relevant? That's a conversation I'd like to have with those professionals. I suggest I send you a letter. That doesn't have to wait until the progress report. Then let me take that moment as a deadline. I aim to report progress on June 1st. I've been trying to do the letter before. In doing so, I will let you know how we could give this form and content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u182	I note this as a commitment from you and as a homework for myself to keep you on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u183	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u184	Yeah, that's my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u185	That's your job, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u186	I don't have a French bulldog hanging in my room for nothing. My second question is equally relevant. I asked you about the research done in Flevoland, in which caregivers themselves conclude that 30% of the young people are placed somewhere but actually without knowing why. I know by now that you do not know that your department has granted a small subsidy to carry out that investigation at national level. So that's a good thing. But I'm asking you to take note of that letter. Would you like to inform me by letter on how this national roll-out will look like and whether the budget will also be made available for that purpose? I understand that the Transformation Fund, I think, is a terrible itchy word jargon bingo, so such a packing fund is essential to make such a national roll-out a success. To sum up, read this letter and let us know what you think and whether it is true that there is a national roll-out of the investigation, and how it gets further hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u187	Yes. When you pronounced it in the first term, I didn't even know about the Flevoland investigation. You see, fortunately, there's more going on in the department than it all fits in my head. More importantly, I really want to get to know the research myself, because, frankly, I find it quite incomprehensible. And indeed, if that gives rise to a broader view of what is going on elsewhere in the country, then we should just do it. And if we say that it is necessary to do so, then we will also have to reserve a budget for it. But in thinking about it there are several steps; there is a sequence of things. I'll let Mrs. Chicken know how we're gonna deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u188	Thank you. I'm not just here to bark, I'm here to find something of substance. So it's nice that I can tell you something. I look forward to the letter, because I think it is extremely important to take real steps to ensure that every child gets the place he or she deserves, a place where he or she really gets help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u189	It is my job to ask at what time you can send that letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u190	Well, then we'll be here for a month or two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u191	I'm looking at Mrs. Chicken. She nods yes. Then we'll see that letter in two months. This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term, at the end of the answer to the questions. On behalf of the Chamber, thank you for that. We are moving on to the second term, but before starting, I would like to say that Mr Raemakers, Mrs Agema and Mr Van der Staaij have obligations elsewhere in the Chamber. A general consultation on hospital care began at 2:00 p.m. We'll start with the second term. I'll be the first to look at Mrs Westerveld. You have 1 minute and 40 seconds to speak. That's also for filing motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u192	Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues have pointed out that the time for long-term plans and action plans is over and that action needs to be taken now. I do not yet see from the Minister's answers that he wants to get to work now. Hence the first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of suicides in youth care is increasing;]] [[Whereas the workload of employees is too high and local authorities indicate significant deficits;]] [[Whereas experts provide different directions for solutions;]] [[calls on the Government to act as a crisis manager and to take immediate action to reduce the number of suicides in youth care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that scientific knowledge is growing on how to treat traumas and various disorders;]] [[Whereas the application of this knowledge is still insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with researchers, to promote the dissemination and implementation of knowledge on scientifically proven treatment methods;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal, where necessary, to make a budget for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Hijink and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-346]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Hijink and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u193	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many youth care workers indicate that they cannot always do their job properly due to high workload;]] [[noting that young people are still being separated in youth care and other repressive measures are being applied;]] [[Whereas this is detrimental to the well-being of young people, but the exact consequences are unknown;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the relationship between separation and repression measures and the workload of youth care workers, and what this means for the well-being of young people in youth care and the relationship with suicides,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Hijink and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-348]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u194	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Then we'll go to Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u195	Mr. Chairman. The problems in youth care are considerable: too few colleagues, too high workload, calls for tenders, low rates and large deficits. These are many reasons for my party, for the SP, to co-sign Mrs Westerveld's motion, in which the Minister is given the task of getting to work on this really quickly. The same applies to Mr Westerveld's motion on the link between repression measures and their impact on young people themselves and the staff who have to work with them. I believe that it is necessary to clarify quickly what that means to these people and what the Minister will do about it. I do not share the Minister's view that it would not be necessary, by definition, for suicide in youth care to always be investigated by the inspection. I believe that when a case of suicide occurs within the youth care system, within a setting in which young people receive care, it must always be investigated, not only by the institution itself, but also by the inspection. The situation is serious enough for that. I therefore serve the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that when a young person dies while being forced to stay in a closed setting or dies after applying a freedom-limiting measure, the IGJ, the inspection, always carries out a full examination of death;]] [[noting that in other situations the IGJ asks the care organisation to carry out its own research;]] [[considers it undesirable that the IGJ does not conduct research in all situations in the event of the death of young people;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the IGJ to carry out its own investigations into the deaths of young people in youth care, including suicide,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-349]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u196	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, although I could have tabled 80 motions on this subject. But I know it won't work eventually. The only thing that works is that we recognise that we have a problem with each other and that we are going to take real steps together for those children and young people who are not now in the right place and are getting help too late. There are a lot of plans coming up for March plans, May plans, June plans, but if only those plans, we still have a problem with each other. I hope that the Minister realises that steps are needed quickly to achieve a real trend. Mr. Chairman. I've made a number of commitments. It has been asked whether it is not wise to record not only the number of suicides, the number of suicides, to use a more simple word, but also the number of suicide attempts. The Minister will come back to that. I have also noted that the Minister agrees that we are actually starting trauma treatment too late, that he wants it to be different and that he is going to see how we can achieve it. We'll get a letter on that in two months. Then it's up to us again to start the debate. Thirdly, I have noted that he himself is going to take note of the poignant investigation in Flevoland, which showed that they did not really know why they were placed in which institution of 30% of young people. That's shocking indeed. There's gotta be another way. That is what Flevoland is picking up now, but that deserves national imitation. We will also receive a letter on this within the next two months. That also means that for me this is only the start of a debate. We've been talking for a long time, and we all feel like we have a problem. Minister, you are not my enemy; I am your ally, but I will remain after you until we feel that real action is being taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall now turn to Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the beginning of this debate. How terrible it must be that you don't like it anymore as a child and that you don't get too little help, but a lot of shredded help, as the inspection says. You're tangled, and so I read in the letter "They don't ask you "What can I really help you with?', But we're just gonna put 20, 15, 18 aid workers in your aim. This fragmented concern is one of the main causes of the possible onset of suicide, as the inspection says. I think that's something of course. I have just said this in the small debate on the interruption: the way in which we steer around purchasing is making it easier and making it easier for people to specialise more and more. No matter how long we talk about one family, one plan, one director, we'll never get that out of his life as long as we keep sending in the same way. For about ten years, Professor Hermanns has been talking about putting the child at the centre. Let's look at what the child needs. Whether or not, as Mrs Westerveld says, that loving arm is instead of a tear dress in a cold room or something, let's offer it. Furthermore, if, as the inspection says, we can really improve the quality of care and use the knowledge that is there, then we will also be able to reduce the workload we are all talking about. This means that we are not doing everything at once, but doing what is right and attuned to the child. I had prepared a motion on the purchase. If you want to know what's going on, you have to follow what happens to the money. I have received a commitment from the Minister. I'd be happy to wait for it. Then we'll move on from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you, Mr. Peters. Then I shall go to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his proper response, but even more perhaps for his drive to do a lot of work on this because of the suffering that parents and family members can suffer. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by naming the proper award of the royal award to one of the founders of 113Online, Jan Mokkstorm. The man has made a huge effort to work on suicide prevention. That must not be left unmentioned here. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's comments on the Separation Cell and his ambition to bring its placements down to zero at the end of this reign. We still had a slight nuance when it comes to the results and the ambition of the removals, but I think we mean the same thing. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the investigation that has been promised to see if we can get to that suicide attempt registration. I'll ask the Minister when exactly that can be done. I think he said before the summer. I'd like to hear that. I did have a motion on the innovative programs HomeBest and KINGS. But the Minister has already made a commitment on this, so that motion does not have to be taken anymore. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have one more motion. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Youth Act lays down that young people in need of youth assistance are to receive as much as possible in a family situation;]] [[noting that action plans are being developed for the transformation of closed youth care as well as for family homes;]] [[Whereas the transformation of closed youth care offers opportunities for further development and professionalisation of family homes;]] [[calls on the Government to look at both action plans in a coherent way and to examine the opportunities offered by the transformation into closed youth care to move from Youth CarePlus to small-scale family-oriented facilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Peters, Mr Tielen and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-350]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u202	Finally, we have Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Members of the Chamber for the substantive debate on this subject, which is an emotional one for all of us. We've seen that, too. If I listen to the Minister's answers, I note that the glass can be half-full or half-empty in terms of the appropriate care, and that there may also be a role for the support teams mentioned by the Minister to show what is already there, so that we can all look at that glass with a little more optimism. The question is whether parents and children have enough of that. As far as I am concerned, we will continue to debate this with each other over the next few months in order to ensure that that ambition of one family, one plan, one aid worker will eventually become a reality. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to call on the professions to draw up and comply with joint directives. I am glad that this is also being invested, both in time and in money. I am curious about the progress and I am happy to hear about it. In addition, we have talked about joint decision-making. The role of the regional expert team has been discussed, but I do not think that is enough. That's why I have a motion called "joint decision." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Youth Act sets out the duty of emergency workers to work together with the family and the child concerned;]] [[Whereas this means that emergency workers ensure that decisions on appropriate care are taken jointly;]] [[noting that research shows that parents and young people often do not feel heard when choosing appropriate assistance;]] [[Whereas it is unknown to what extent municipalities include this obligation in their supervision of healthcare providers contracted by them;]] [[calls on the government to examine, together with local authorities, how "joint decision-making" is far from always being properly applied and how it is going to be done,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen, Mr Voordewind and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-351]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u204	The next item is the second term of office of the Minister and his appreciation of the motions tabled by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u205	Mr President, thank you. I have heard a number of considerations, a number of motions and a single question in the second term. I would particularly like to focus on the motions that have been tabled. I'll start with the motion in part No. 346 by Mrs Westerveld. She submits that motion in the context of: we hear a lot about plans, but it's not about plans now, it's about what we're going to do. That's got something to do with a word game. If the Chamber asks me what I'm gonna do, I'll write down what I'm gonna do. That often gets the title "plan." It's no different: it's called a plan. But, of course, I have to implement that plan. In the end, only the result counts. I assume you're keen on that, because that's your role. That's how we both play our part. But without plans, I really can't. I dissuade this motion, but for another reason. The motion wrongly establishes a relationship between the increase in the number of suicides and all kinds of concerns about youth care. That causality is not justified. It also ignores the division of responsibility and all that is happening at the moment: the plan of action for closed youth aid, the expert teams set up, the analysis of the backgrounds of the increase in the number of suicides. In short, I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 347.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u206	I see an interruption by Mrs Westerveld on this point. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u207	I can explain that a little bit. When something was going on at VMBO Maastricht a while ago, I got a call from Minister Slob. At that time, he felt it was his top priority to tackle the crisis there. I do not think that the situation is comparable, but I would like the Minister to take a similar approach and to see that everything is not going well and we know what the solutions are, taking this personally and wiping out his agenda in the next few weeks to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u208	That comparison is not only amazing, but also does not do justice to reality when you see what has happened, what has been set in motion and what is already being done. And that even in such a way that some municipalities say: do you remember that we decentralised the care, because now you are very much on top? I'm working on it every day. I dissuade the motion because it doesn't recognize everything that's already happening. Then the motion to part No. 347 in which the government is invited to make a proposal, where necessary, to make a budget for this purpose. This concerns the first operative part, in which the government is asked, in consultation with researchers, to promote the dissemination of knowledge about scientifically proven treatment methods. That is a policy of support, and I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. This is exactly what we are doing: actually spreading treatment methods that scientifically proven works and ensuring that we also increase that knowledge. In short, this is support policy and thus the judgement can be Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 348 which calls on the Government to carry out an investigation. This relates somewhat to Mrs Westerveld's contribution in her first term and also to her first motion. We shouldn't do any more research, because we're already doing a lot of research. We must get to work, in the way I have outlined. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 349 the government is asked to instruct the IGJ to carry out their own investigations into the deaths of young people. We have had that debate, and I very much agree with Mr Hijink that the inspection should be keen on it, but I think that the way in which we have now implemented it is in line with the sharpness and independence of the inspection and, at the same time, with the strengthening of the institution's learning capacity. I would therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 350 calls on the Government to consider both action plans in a coherent manner. It is about family homes and closed youth aid. I think we should indeed do so, but I would like to add a profit warning that I mentioned in my first term, namely that family homes often bring a much lighter arrangement. I do not think we should give the impression that it is always feasible to organise this in a closed setting, often with very firm guidance and security measures, in a small-scale setting for all children who are currently being taken into custody in the closed youth assistance. So there's a certain limitation in that. At the same time, these things have everything to do with each other. I would like to do that in conjunction and I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u209	So you're giving the motion...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u210	Judgment of the Court of Justice with this remark. Then the motion to part No. 351 in which the government is asked to examine, together with municipalities, how "joint decision" is far from always being properly applied and how it is going to be done. I have a hesitation in that, because this would be another investigation. I would actually like to ask whether Mrs Tielen would like to look at that text again with this remark in mind: I think that we have developed a good way and a good infrastructure to get one municipality to learn from another. The Youth Support Team has good contacts with all regions, knows what is happening, what is the need for transformation and where municipalities and regions have said as an important topic for this transformation: we want to work on improving decision-making with parents. They are also ideally suited to bring this type of experience together. Couldn't we put it a little more easily? Couldn't the operative be a little more debilitating? Let's get that Youth Support Team working on this assignment and then hear back what else is needed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u211	Finally, Mrs Tielen on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u212	The Minister suggests cutting the operative part in half and leaving one half for what it is because we already know a little bit about why things do not happen as we have laid down them as legislators. Fine. Then I come with an amended motion, which is mainly aimed at ensuring that joint decision-making is part of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u213	Then it's judgment room. Mr Voordewind asked another question about a commitment. I thought it might be helpful if I could briefly, very briefly and pointfully sum up what documents you would have to expect in the near future so that you could also adjust the planning of the debates. In addition, I will list the commitments I have just made and when you have the results to expect. First, the planning of the pieces. That starts with the plan of action closed youth aid. That's what you'll get in March. The plan of approach family-oriented care will be available to you in May. The in-depth research into youth finances will be given to you at the end of May/beginning of June. This is linked to the Spring Note. The youth-ggz action study will also be given to you at the beginning of June. The factsheet of the inspection based on the observations she will make in the coming months in closed youth care will also be given to you at the beginning of June. Also the progress report Care for Youth in which we report on the entire programme the state of play of everything that is happening at the moment will be given to you at the beginning of June. Then a number of commitments have been made today. The letter on the Flevoland investigation to which Mrs Kikken referred will be sent in two months from now. You will also receive a letter with two months on trauma screening and how we proceed with that. This was a commitment to Mrs. Kuik. The commitment to Mr Peters to consider procurement and how it can be strengthened, or not, to the quality of youth aid will also be given to you by two months. The commitment to talk to CBS to take a better picture of the attempts at suicide or self-inflicted injury is part of the analysis that follows after the summer of 113: a more detailed analysis of suicide. I have one more: the commitment to Mr Raemakers on how to proceed with the most specialised forms of youth care and the evaluation of LTA. You'll receive it at the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u214	Then I come to the end... No, I didn't. Sorry, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u215	There was one more commitment from the Minister to bring these best practices, the proven effective programs such as HomeBest and KINGS, to the attention of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u216	Yes. This is reflected in the plan of action on closed youth aid. That's one. And it comes back in the progress report Care for the Youth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u217	The minister said "we're already working on it," so maybe that's why he didn't write it down as a commitment on the list. I would like to know what is going on with the joint professional guidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u218	If you will allow me, I will go back to the progress report of the whole Youth Care programme at the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u219	Then we have the whole package of information complete. I would like to thank the Minister for his presence in this important debate. I would also like to thank Members for their input into this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-4.u220	I'm suspending the plenary for half an hour before lunch. After that, we will probably have the regulation of work and the debate on the amendment of the Act on the Prohibition of fur farming in connection with the addition of the power to impose administrative sanctions for the enforcement of that Act.
