ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34956, Amendment of the Social Insurance Finance Act, the Disease Act and the Compensation and Pay Area Act, in order to enable the deactivation of the quota levy and to provide that the quota levy will not be levied until 2022 and any other changes. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The context of this bill is painful. In the public sector, the government is failing to achieve the number of new jobs for people with disabilities as agreed in the 2013 Social Agreement. The market sector will succeed in meeting the employment commitments. Big shots, in fact. The public sector is performing comparatively below par. This is painful, because the group of disabled people is vulnerable and benefits from government employers who free them a place on the labour market. If we speak big words about an inclusive labour market, then it does not fit in with the fact that the government does not honour the job agreements made for its own sector. The agreement in the social agreement was that by the end of 2025 the market sector would have created 100,000 new jobs and the public sector would have created 25,000 jobs for people with disabilities. That is a nice ambitious goal for people who often fail to find a regular job on their own. If we put the figures together, it turns out that the market employers always do the annual targets and the government employers always fail to meet the annual targets. The same applies to this cabinet, and the same applies to the previous cabinet. We can argue adjectives, but terms like "shameful," "shameful" and "greatly" insist on it. And yes, perhaps the specific objective for the public sector was too ambitious and yes, the market sector had a little more time to achieve the number of new jobs, but these counter-arguments are not really strong in the light of substantial differences. The necessary research has now been carried out and my group would like to ask the Secretary of State what its conclusion is. Is the public sector's administrative capacity less than the strength of the market sector? Why is the market sector simply performing better when it comes to new jobs for the disabled? Is the market better equipped for social entrepreneurship than the government? Or does it have something to do with differences in organisational culture between the public and the market sectors? What can government employers learn from their colleagues in the market sector to help people with disabilities get regular and full-time jobs? Those are many questions, fundamental questions too, which should help us to think through more effective labour market policies. The Christian Union Group needs a more robust analysis by the State Secretary of the "underperformance" of the government. Not to blackmail, but to offer the vulnerable group of people with disabilities a perspective. If we know what we are not doing right, we can design targeted policy instruments that are more effective. There is a harsh social signal from a government that gives itself a directing role in helping the disabled to get a job, but does not meet its own targets. Isn't that supposed to lead to bitterness and frustration among the target group? The government is the guardian of the weak, has an exemplary role, and this certainly applies to people with disabilities. We know how important it is to have a full-time job for people with reduced working hours: it contributes to a positive self-image, to fully participate and to earn your own bread, and to increase their social capital. By the way, if I read it correctly, the government's performance has recently improved, although they are still lagging behind the agreed objective. What is the explanation for this increase? Does this have anything to do with the current shortage on the labour market? I'd like a response. The rules in force provide for a quota levy, which is an awful word, though, Mr President-in-Office, which is used by employers if they do not obtain the required quota of jobs for the target group. For the public sector, this would amount to a levy for last year, converted from around €5,000 per unfilled job on the basis of a quota rate of almost 2%. With this draft law, the Secretary of State asks that the public sector should be spared once and not activate the quota levy now. This follows on from the decision of the previous cabinet. This immediately raises the question of the Council of State in this regard. What psychological effect does the government expect of this measure? What is the added value? In the view of the Christian Union Group, labour market policy for people with disabilities must now be serious. How does putting this sanction on hold fit? Is it more than a gesture to government employers? How does this fit in with the little uplifting image of a government that lets down on the labour market and then wants to come under the agreed sanction? Fortunately, the Secretary of State does not leave it at that, but comes up with a package of agreements and additional measures to encourage the much-needed catch-up by government employers. It is also important to stress that the jobs to be created every year under the social agreement remain in full effect. The quantitative job agreements are therefore not affected. These two observations are important to my group in our final assessment of this bill. The Christian Union Group welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State does not allow the government to comply with the employment agreements for people with disabilities. It has started to work with momentum to shake up its own sector as well. She shows that the concept of inclusive labour market is not an empty shell for her. At least that's how we understand it. The Secretary of State has launched a what she calls "Breed Offensive" which makes the public sector more competitive in order to create jobs for the disabled. Earlier this year, an administrative agreement was concluded in which public sectors confirmed their commitment to the job agreement. Work agendas were developed for government employers. Accountability rules were laid down. Plans were drawn up per ministry. The Team Including.I find that a nice word started, which helps employers to recruit people from the target job deal. The knowledge infrastructure for employers was strengthened and their support improved. Specifically for the education sector, the Baanbrokers project has been launched which focuses on the influx of people from the target employment agreement. In addition, we understand, steps are being taken to reduce the complexity of the existing scheme for employers, streamline the borrowing rules and create a bonus-malus scheme that is more attractive than the sanctioning measure currently in force. My group welcomes this energetic approach. Whether it is enough to boost the systematically lagging performance of the government will have to be reflected in the figures for 2019. My group would like to hear what the experience has been over the past six months. Does the Secretary of State, with this Breed Offensive, intend to get the government back on track with regard to the job deal? Is it enough to meet the current target of 25,000 new jobs? What new legislation is this going to lead to? The government, as it turns out, wants to drop the various targets for the market and public sector and steer them towards the overall target of 125.000 jobs. This partly in response to the Dutch Parliamentary Motion-Nijkerken-De Haan c.s. My group understands the underlying reasoning, so there is a lot of spillover between the two sectors, but nevertheless calls for a better justification. Is it wise to change the rules halfway through the ride? Should we not simply maintain the targets for the sector, precisely because the government is underperforming? Doesn't changing the rules of the game affect the compulsion of government self-direction in the public sector? I assume that the Secretary of State will continue to report on the take-up of the public sector employment agreement. I would like to get a commitment on that. The Van Dijk/Van Dijk motion also calls for this. Mr President, I shall conclude. The Christian Union Group is very disappointed that the government is unable to achieve the job agreement around vulnerable groups of people with disabilities. The government should be ahead, not behind. But my group welcomes the commitment of the Secretary of State to change that. Whether this catch-up will be effective enough to justify a one-off postponement of the quota levy will have to be demonstrated by the answers of the Secretary of State to our questions. I look forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you. I call Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to inform you that today I have the privilege of speaking on behalf of the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks. Everyone deserves a chance to get to work. Because work ensures independence, contributes to self-esteem and contributes to the economy as well as to social cohesion. But not everyone gets that chance to get to work. For example, the employment rate of people with disabilities is low. The PvdA and GroenLinks strongly support a more inclusive labour market. According to our parties, this makes an important contribution to a better and fairer society. Apart from that, it means a lot to the target group to be able and allowed to participate. That is why our groups supported the employment agreement of the Social Agreement of 11 April 2013. In that agreement, the then cabinet and the social partners agreed to create 125,000 new jobs for people with disabilities. Employers in the market sector have guaranteed 100,000 additional jobs; government employers for 25,000. But it is the government employers who have not yet been able to deliver on this promise. The PvdA and GroenLinks deeply regret this. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal to give the public sector time to catch up in order to achieve the number of jobs agreed for people with disabilities. With the Council of State, our political groups note that the adjustments are not aimed at forcing the government to meet its commitments in the context of the employment agreement in the short term, but in particular to give the government itself a further delay in fulfilling that obligation. As I said, this disappoints us. With the Council of State, the PvdA and GroenLinks groups point out that the previously far-reaching amendments to the Jobs Agreement and Quota Tax Act have already considerably simplified the achievement of the target numbers, thus reducing the rate of activation of the quota levy. And then the government employers are left behind. That is why, like the Council of State, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what function the Jobs Agreement and Quota Tax Act still has after the amendments that have already been made and the legislative proposal before us. We are deeply concerned about the impact on the credibility of the law in general and that of the government in particular. Mr. Chairman. The public sector simply needs to live up to the high level of ambition in the social agreement, according to the PvdA and GroenLinks. Its role as a model is seriously under pressure as a result of the lack of performance. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what measures are being taken to ensure that the government will still fulfil its obligations under the employment agreement. And on what basis does it base its confidence that the level of ambition will be fulfilled? The Council of State recommends a renewed broad reflection on how best to achieve a more inclusive labour market for people with disabilities. And a few weeks ago, the Social and Cultural Planning Agency concluded that employers are not committed to an inclusive labour market. While 70% of employers feel responsible for people with disabilities according to the SCP, only 11% have hired someone in the last two years. I would like to hear what proposals our political groups can expect from the Secretary of State to close the gap between words and deeds on the part of employers. For example, many companies are not familiar with subsidy schemes. Almost half of employers know nothing about a reduction or exemption from social security contributions for people with disabilities, the SCP writes. Finally, I would like to draw attention to an unintentional side effect of the Labour Market Act in balance for people with a distance from the labour market. After all, they are in danger of becoming too expensive and out of work. Where workers employed in the social employment service are excluded from the payroll regime, this exception does not apply to workers in the target group on job appointment and new sheltered work. As the Christian Union puts it strikingly in the written questions on this subject: "This gives the impression of half-baked policy." Does the Secretary of State share this analysis? If not, why not? If so, what can we expect from her in this area? For the sake of clarity, the PvdA and GroenLinks are a strong supporter of good working conditions for all, including those who are remote from the labour market. Mr. Chairman. I would like to briefly reflect on the Government's intention to simplify the Jobs Agreement Act and reduce labour quotas. This means that there will be a new job agreement for all employers in the Netherlands, so that cohesion is more encouraged. It is therefore no longer considered relevant to keep track of who works in which sector. In this case, it is no longer possible to identify which sectors are lagging behind and what are the reasons for this. In the opinion of the members of the PvdA Group, this calls for freeriders to behave: a public sector can transfer its responsibility to the market and vice versa. Does the Secretary of State recognize this problem? If not, why not? If so, what solution does it propose? The letter on simplification includes the commitment to examine with the Minister of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations the possibilities to encourage government employers and not to oblige them to continue to create regular jobs themselves. But what possibilities does the Secretary of State see? And do I understand from this that government employers are no longer obliged to continue to create regular jobs themselves? If so, in the opinion of our groups, the above-mentioned example role of the government will be put even further under pressure. The PvdA and GroenLinks deeply regret this. I'm rounding up. The PvdA and GroenLinks groups saw the Jobs Agreement and Quota Tax Act as an important step towards inclusive and activating labour market policies. In our view, the proposal before us is a step in the wrong direction. We are, of course, open to being persuaded by the Secretary of State to the contrary and are therefore looking forward with interest to her answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I've listened carefully to your story. I share the disappointment about not reaching the agreement. Does Mrs Sent herself have any explanation as to why these government employers are so much worse at achieving these job agreements than the market sector? Is that a difference in culture? Is that a difference in control? Is that a difference in motivation? Are there other reasons? That question doesn't get out of hand. The same applies to this cabinet, which was also valid for the previous cabinet, with all due respect. Those targets didn't make it either. Do you have a picture with that? Do you have an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u7	That's a very good question. I'm not so interested in explaining why it doesn't work. I think it's really insufferable that it didn't work out. I would have preferred that all the energy had been put on it instead of promising the public sector that there would be a postponement of the quota levy, as in the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u8	I cannot imagine that Mrs Sent is satisfied with her own answer. I think we can learn a great deal from how it is that one sector does and the other does not meet the targets. That we have to get those targets, we agree on that, but how can we put that government much stronger in the game? It's painful. You are right to note that the government is failing to do so, but of course we would like to know what that is about in order to be able to use other policy instruments more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u9	I do not think that is an easy question to answer. That is why I find it worrying that the Secretary of State is now promising a large number of measures that the public sector would achieve. I am not convinced that it will happen with these measures. I'm sure you should use a carrot and a stick. In this case, the stick must be used. I don't think it's understandable that that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Mrs Stienen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look at the time. Unfortunately, the name of the law before us does not fit in with the cabinet's plan for clear language and the ambitions of the Direct Clear Campaign. It's a real tonguebreaker. For convenience and understanding, I will speak on behalf of the D66 Group about the Act deactivation of the quota levy. Mr. Chairman. For D66, an inclusive labour market is absolutely a priority arising from our Constitution, including Article 1, and our international obligations such as the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The previous speakers also mentioned the importance for people with disabilities and for our society as a whole. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to endorse this. Because we believe that everyone should be given a chance to contribute to our society in a working environment, from their own talent and opportunities. For us, this also applies to people who are distanced from the labour market, for example through a labour restriction, and who therefore need additional help and guidance. We also want this to be done in a sustainable way, so that people can continue to work in jobs for a long time or in a good way. Of course, my group understands that this ambition requires a great deal from the workers with disabilities and from employers in terms of flexibility, knowledge and perseverance. We see that business has achieved much more success in this than the government. My group is deeply concerned about the government's delay. I will come back to that later in my speech. Mr. Chairman. The April 2019 Labour Market Monitor shows that the employment rate of disabled people is 66% based on the latest figures. This is still 15 percentage points lower than the average employment rate of all persons aged between 15 and 64 with an active capacity, of 81%. Based on CBS data, 1,541.000 disabled people were employed in the working and non-working population in 2014. Of those, 540,000 had jobs. For D66 it is not clear which figures from which year are now used as zero measurement. Would the Secretary of State care to explain that? Because that is relevant to the weighting of the final result of the job agreement to achieve 125.000 jobs for labour restrictions by 2025. What's with the 125,000? In view of the figures, should we not be even more ambitious, we ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with the repair of a legal omission, or as the explanatory memorandum to the Act says deactivation of the quota levy: "A technical change in order to make sure that an employment limit counts for the job appointment and that the employer can claim the financial benefits of the no-risk policy and wage costs benefit, as long as someone is registered for the job appointment and the so-called exit period applies." Another mouthful. On behalf of the D66 Group, I see this plenary debate primarily as an opportunity to discuss with the Secretary of State how the present legislative amendment can better contribute to achieving the objectives of the Jobs Agreement Act and whether the amendment is sufficient to continue to stimulate government and market sectors, so that the stick behind the door of the quota levy is not necessary. In practice, it has been found that the current system creates obstacles for the employer, in particular as regards the condition of registration of a job created. In other words, when does a job created belong to the private or public sector? In addition, employers were faced with a complex heavy borrowing administration. We understand that the t+2 rule I really had to read that very often... with this change of law is abolished. In other words, the rule that a person no longer belongs to the target group of the job agreement still counts for the job appointment after the second calendar year in which that is the case. It's not that obvious, but if you read it a lot, you understand. This means that people remain in the target register. This contributes to increasing the security of workers in the target group about their placement on the job and gives employers more incentive to continue investing in their employees. But how does the Secretary of State intend to measure results? Is there no limit at all on how long people are registered in the target register? In addition, my group asks the Secretary of State about people who have a disability during work with their permanent employer and who, after a certain period of incapacity for work, want to return to work with that employer, even now that they have a disability. Do these people count for the job deal? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. My group would also like to hear an example from the Secretary of State in understandable language of how this deactivation of the quota levy works and what that means for implementation and enforcement. In other words, how can the present law help to simplify the registration of jobs and the borrowing administration for labour restrictions? Would the Secretary of State please take with him briefly what it means for the UWV and the Tax Office? Because these organisations have just started working on the current system and now have to switch again. Mr. Chairman. The results of the 2018 Jobs Agreement show that the government achieved only 7,940 out of 125,000 in 2018, while the target was 12,500 jobs. On the other hand, the market achieves 13.017 jobs more than 31,000 in the objective of the social agreement. Indeed, D66 wants to congratulate the business community on achieving this objective. My group is very critical of the disappointing results in the government. D66 understands the Secretary of State's statement that it is essential that a person with a disability gets a job. That's more important than where someone works. We also see that sometimes jobs are created by the government through the use of people through companies. That can indeed make the proper allocation unnecessarily complex. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she sees it. In any case, this does not relieve the government of giving a good example of creating jobs for people with disabilities in the labour market. D66 is critical, but we are also pleased to see that the cabinet acknowledges this and has worn the penance rug. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what results have already been achieved since she concluded an administrative agreement with the government employers in April 2019 and has launched a broad offensive. We would also like to know how it supports regional and local authorities and whether attention is paid to smaller municipalities. We agree with the statement that there should be no delay. Does this mean that the Secretary of State assumes that by 2020 public employers should be able to meet the targets? I'd like a response. The Secretary of State has now introduced an inclusiveness storage and a bonus. If we understand correctly, employers are rewarded who have created jobs for people with disabilities. Does this apply equally to government and the market? Would the Secretary of State care to explain this? What timetable does she have in mind? My group would like to know how this bonus is given and administered in the case of public-private partnerships or loans. Is the introduction of this inclusiveness storage and bonus possible to create a new administrative maze? My group would like a clear explanation from the Secretary of State. Mr President, I will conclude. All in all, D66 believes that the direction the Secretary of State is now taking can work, but the target date of 2025 is already close. It is therefore important to keep a good finger on the wrist. Is the Secretary of State coming with a feedback and a mid-term evaluation to both Chambers? How does the Secretary of State intend to correct this law if it appears that the package of measures does not have the desired effect and in particular the government does not catch up? Mr. Chairman. Ultimately, it is important that as many people as possible with disabilities find a place in that inclusive labour market in a good way. That is why my group is looking forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you. I call Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group did not participate in the written preparation of this debate. Not because the subject doesn't matter to us or to me. No, in an inclusive society, people with a distance from the labour market should have a place in that labour market. What we did do was put the debate on the consequences of the BAADI on the agenda. In this context, I would like to know from the Secretary of State how the social partners, who have been commissioned, are now working. Mr. Chairman. When I put the few words on paper for today's contribution, I realized that in one of the first budget debates I did as a young Member of Parliament across the street, I spoke about the right to "decent work for persons with disabilities, full opportunities, rehabilitation, special vocal guidance, training and retraining, and employment on useful work under the same conditions and same pay." That was not a figment of my own at the time, but it came from the ILO convention in Philadelphia in 1945, which was also signed by the Netherlands. Two years later, there was also the task of ensuring at least a 2% quota. Then I wondered what had happened since then. What has actually happened to increase the number of people with a distance from the labour market? Even then the memory comes up. In the 1980s, however, we had made an attempt with the WAGW, a 5% quota law, which proved to be too generic and would cause too many problems for us to ever be able to function properly. But in 2013 the solution came. The then government knew how to do it: everyone under the Participation Act. This meant the de facto ending of a wonderful provision such as the social work facility. That is, the massive decline in the population, but you could count on problems to come. They would then be solved with the Jobs Agreement Act. I now see all kinds of constructions around me with forms of sheltered work that are not always healthy for the designated target group's position. They therefore do not meet employment that must be rewarding and rewarding for people who are remote from the labour market. I therefore wonder whether it was a wise decision to abolish the WSW. Now it appears that job creation has not been achieved by the government, the government comes up with a proposal that might offer opportunities, opportunities to still create jobs in that government. It must be possible to employ people with a distance from the labour market, and the government is still doing too little at the moment. Of course, the CDA Group is disappointed that it did not succeed in the public administration, which should still have an exemplary role to play. When I look at this law, I think: too bad, because it doesn't solve anything. We have made mistakes in the past, and so we assume that the new opportunities offered by this law will be taken up with the utmost urgency by the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u14	Then you will. I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. It's always nice to be here and to be standing, but it's not nice to be here to deal with this bill. This is a bad bill. This bill isn't going to solve anything. This bill is not even a cloth for bleeding, but a pubic to cover bad government and government policies. It's very painful to start in the morning. The Secretary of State is not complicated about it and also writes that the government has been failing for three years to do what we promised. We need to understand the context in which this happened. Mrs. Stienen spoke of a tongue-breaking legal title. Worse than breaking your tongue is saying something that's not true. When we introduced the Participation Act, it sounded very nice, but the reality was, of course, that we were going to undress the Wajong and that we were closing the social workshops. Mrs. Oomen also reported this. This was an attack on the position of the weakest in society. That was all to bring in the 2 billion we needed to fight the crisis. So the most vulnerable had to pay a huge price to put the country back in order. In return, there would be a job deal. Business would provide 100,000 jobs for people with disabilities and the government would provide 25,000. My party wasn't very excited about that. Not because of the purpose, but because of our suspicion that it was promised more beautifully than it would be done. Then there was a bill, because we had to make sure there was a stick. If not delivered, there is a stick to act on. The idea was that we needed that stick for business, because why hadn't business always created jobs? For the government, we didn't need a stick, because it had it in our own hands. He could have done it then, and he could have set an example. It is extremely cynical, however, that business has been able to help people with disabilities to get to work by making work more suitable for those people, because that is where the solution lies, of course, and that the government has been failing for three years. The Secretary of State is now saying about the stick we had: hitting doesn't help either, so we're gonna put that stick away and we're gonna come up with something else. I really don't understand how we're gonna come up with a bill like that. If you read the statement of reply and the further statement of answer: it is one excuse after another. The Secretary of State admits that the government is failing, but I find the phrase "the government is deeply disappointed that the government does not deliver" something like Shell's Supervisory Board saying "it is a shame that Shell is polluting the environment." It's still a matter of responsibility. The government isn't also a sector, is it? My party in the Lower House was so critical of the bill that the stick created, that she said: we do not believe in it. In this Chamber we were after the Elzinga motion in which it was said that at least we are going to see if the law works so easily that we were prepared to vote in favour. We are not the most unreasonable party in this Chamber, but if it is now said 'actually proven that the law is not effective', if it turns out that our colleagues in the TK were right with their distrust of this law and then the bill is amended by saying 'we put the stick away', then we are really in a bad way. I would therefore like to say that my group cannot vote in favour of this proposal, because it does not solve any problems. I said last week at the General Reviews: what is good can be done by; what is bad must be done away. That applies to this bill. This bill is not a solution and should therefore not be adopted. I haven't actually heard anyone here say this is a good bill. Everything is now based on the hope that the Secretary of State will be able to improve her policy with additional policies. I also hope that will happen, but there is no point in adopting this law, because we are not doing anything about it and we are just showing ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u16	Does not adopting this law solve the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u17	No, not adopting this law doesn't solve a problem, but that's why we shouldn't adopt a law that even the Council of State says is three times nothing, in some fancy terms. We shouldn't do that. I also wonder what the consequence must be. The Secretary of State says that the government for which it is responsible, so what the government is responsible, has failed year by year. So what's the consequence? Look, the final reckoning comes in 2025, but then this government is gone. At what point does it have consequences that the Secretary of State says: the policy I have to bear does not work? Mrs Stienen says it's a good thing that the government wears the penance rug. That's good. That's fair. I complimented the Secretary of State for it, too, but let's not forget that there are victims. We have made a promise to those people who lost their opportunities to work in the social workplace when the Act of Participation was introduced. That's about thousands of people we promised and we didn't deliver. Those people are the victims of that. It was the most vulnerabilities. They had to surrender their rights because there was a crisis and something had to happen, and then we didn't deliver. Those people all have faces. They have a name. They have a social security number. What do we do with these people? Are these people going to hear anything except that they're being told that the government is wearing the penance rug? Are we doing anything with these people? Or do we say: too bad, that is collateral damage? My party, Madam President, will have great difficulty voting for this bill, but we listen, as always, with great pleasure to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-3.u19	The next subject starts at 11.00 hours, the original time on the schedule.
