ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u1	We continue with the treatment of the Labour Market Act in balance, Room 35074.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u2	We had stopped with Mr Smeulders, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. He has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The labour market is changing. The delivery guy who's coming to deliver the book you ordered last night at 5:00 p.m. is running a race against the clock, because he's no longer paid by the hour, but by package. If you're in the hospital, there's an increasing chance that the nurse at your bed is an independent entrepreneur. And more and more often you see outside on benches at restaurants meal delivery guys, who are poking on their phones in anticipation of their next assignment. The time you worked with the same client for 20 years with the same contract is over for many. That doesn't have to be a problem at all. There are a lot of people who are happy with a little more flexibility. But it becomes a problem when people can no longer count on a decent income. Mr. Chairman. The number of people working but still living in poverty has doubled since 1990. Last week we discussed it here in the plenary, during the debate on the social state of the Netherlands. It is less and less obvious that having a job also means that you can have a good income, that you are not poor. One in seven Dutch people is now among the insecure workers, people who sometimes do not make it, but also too often, people who have to go from flex to flex to get around or stack jobs, who have two jobs at the same time, often on call and then hope that they are not called at the same time. Or people who are forced to work as zzp'ers. It's cheaper for the employer, you can be thrown out of the way. In the meantime, you don't build up a pension and you're not insured for disability. Mr. Chairman. If it keeps up like this, it's gonna blow up. That is not only what I am saying on behalf of the GroenLinks parliamentary group, which is also what ING's economic office says. Those aren't our natural allies. They warned recently about the increasing number ofzzp's in the labour market. That might just double, they said. So maybe all bus drivers or all waiters will be entrepreneurs in a few years, whether they like it or not. Mr. Chairman. Something really needs to be done. The Netherlands is now European flexwork champion, and that is what we think is a questionable title. Let me be positive, because, fortunately, the cabinet also recognises that the flexibility of the labour market has gone crazy, and that is really very positive, a very good start. But the question is of course whether it is enough to turn the tide. Don't get me wrong. I am not at all saying that it is easy to change the labour market in a way that makes it more inclusive. Not for nothing did columnist Sheila Sittalsing mention Minister Koolmees very strikingly the Minister of Impossible Affairs, a few weeks ago in a beautiful column. And it is not for nothing that the Minister of Impossible Affairs has set up a committee of wise men to think about this. GroenLinks is very happy with that. We are really looking forward to the advice of that committee this autumn. We are convinced that a number of things need to change fundamentally. It is no longer of this time that social security is so strongly linked to the type of contract you have. Income, security of living and training should be accessible to all. From the hearing that took place on this Labour Market Act in balance came the suggestion of turning it around. Let us first look at what a Dutch acceptable level would be. Whether you're flex worker, payroller, temp orzzp'er, what is everybody entitled to? I find these very interesting questions, which we would very much like to discuss with the Minister, or rather discuss, after the committee's opinion on the future of the labour market will be known in November. I also understand that the Minister cannot say much about this today. Mr. Chairman. What the Minister can, of course, say about today is the legislative proposal before us: the Labour Market Act in balance. After the cradle, that's Minister Koolmees' second child. Let me also start positively, because this Minister is entitled to do so. There are really good proposals in this law, proposals that could have come out of the GroenLinks electoral programme, so to speak. Let me mention a few: the premium differentiation, which makes flexwork really more expensive, the transition fee from the first day and of course the measures around payroll. The Left does not believe that they go far enough; an amendment has been tabled. But I also think it is very positive to hear that D66, with the support of the CDA, wants to fill it out, so that competition does not take place on the poor pension. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to that part. Mr. Chairman. Despite the positive points that are really contained in this bill, we are concerned about the consequences of this law. Because as long as no measures are taken to combat the increasing number ofzzp'ers, this law is likely to strengthen the development of more and morezzp'ers. For it remains easy for employers to get out of a contract of employment. Making flex work more expensive would perhaps only increase that incentive. So there is a great risk that the group that is already vulnerable will become even more vulnerable. Unfortunately, this law does not balance the labour market, but rather increases the division of opportunity and vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u4	I think Mr Smeulders is trying from his position to choose a good position by being critical and at the same time recognizing what the improvements are in. So I appreciate that anyway. But because of his tone, that changing things can also lead to wrong consequences, I have the impression that he is more on the side of the argument of some employers' organizations, in the sense of: do not do that law. The FNV we were together at a meeting, however, says: you should not wait until you have everything; at least this must be done. Is my analysis that GroenLinks leans more towards the employer's position "preferably not" or is he more inclined to what the FNV says: no, this has to go on, because it does make improvements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u5	These are very valid questions that are being asked. This is also a dilemma for us. Don't get me wrong, I'd be sorry if the measures that make flexwork more expensive didn't go ahead. But I do make a kind of appeal to the Minister: make sure that thesezzp measures come as soon as possible, because otherwise the risk of a waterbed effect is very large............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u6	I would have misunderstood you. I want to make sure I understand now. You say: it is right that we should take measures to reduce flex, but there are risks of a waterbed effect, and that is why Minister Koolmee must move forward with the measures, for example aroundzzp, to prevent this from becoming the evasive route?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u7	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u9	And after that: it is also really necessary to make sure that the zzp route becomes less attractive. The Minister himself has already indicated that he is working on this as hard as possible, but I would like to have some more information on it today when dealing with this bill, precisely because this is such a turbulent dossier. That's what it turns out to be every time. Mr. Chairman. What struck us in the explanatory statement is that we know very little about the consequences of this law. That is also in line with the question that Mr Heerma has just asked. The motto is 'flex less flex and definitely less fixed', but whether or not that is actually going to happen, we as GroenLinks find a little leanly supported. During the hearing, several experts also indicated that they believe that relaxing the right of dismissal will not necessarily lead to more permanent contracts. Similarly, the extension of the chain determination is not clear on the basis of the information we now have. In the written input and round that we have had in preparation for this debate, we, as GroenLinks, have advocated the creation of a labour market analysis of this law. The Minister replied that the consequences of the coalition agreement had already been taken into account. We have looked at this very carefully, but it has been done very globally. We would very much like to know the impact of this law on the number of flex contracts and the number of fixed contracts, but above all on the number ofzzp'ers. What is the result of the number of working poor? And what is the consequence of the division between propriety and vulnerability? Because that's what it's all about. Is this law going to lead to more or less security, especially at the bottom of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u10	What Mr Smeulders is proposing sounds intriguing, but I doubt which way he is going. With a labour market analysis, you will find yourself in the corner where Mr Smeulders started, namely the SCP. But the SCP also has no numerical basis until behind the decimal place. They analyse the state of society. If you really want to figure out what the consequences of something are, you end up with a CPB-like model. We all know that if you bring down benefits in a CPB model, you get jobs. That's how the model works. But is that more the truth? Or are you actually looking for an analysis, as the SCP would do? And at what point would GroenLinks want something like that? I'm looking for what the proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u11	I would find it very interesting to have the SCP look at the deeper layer and not work with all those models that we all know are undesirable effects and which are very 'economic' in the first place. We would very much have liked that to be in order for this bill to be dealt with, so that we, as a Chamber, can also say better substantiated: we are expecting this because I understand that there is always an expectation that this will lead, for example, to more permanent contracts. Based on the information we have now, it's just very difficult to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u12	In part, we also have hearings and things like that to make that analysis. Is Mr Smeulders actually saying that he is sorry that it did not happen? But does he also say that I would like to keep my finger on the wrist along that line for the years to come? Or is it just a statement about the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u13	It's double. I'm very sorry this didn't happen. I'm gonna ask the Minister again now. I don't think that's gonna happen next Tuesday. We all know that this law is still going to be dealt with in the First Chamber. It could be that the First Chamber is going to make the same request. Maybe that's possible before the law is dealt with in the Supreme Court. That would be worth a sweet thing to us. To address the second aspect of your question: I find it very interesting to monitor what our expectations are at present, but in particular I find it interesting to know what will happen in the coming years thanks to this law. Perhaps we can come up with something in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u14	I understand Mr Smeulder's search very well. That's what we're all doing. If we knew it was all working perfectly, we wouldn't all be having a debate here. We would not have had this debate. There's something paradoxical in the message I hear. On the other hand, the question is: what is the effect of doing nothing? We have that effect in mind; that is what we have now. I would like to ask Mr Smeulders whether he prefers to choose it, with what he knows is going to happen, or whether he opts for a lot of measures which, as he himself says, are quite good and which we can now simply introduce? I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u16	...too paradoxical to postpone it for research now. We've been doing nothing for far too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u17	We've been doing nothing for far too long? A few years ago, in the previous cabinet, a law was passed by a very large majority of this Chamber. A number of elements of this law still need to be evaluated. I think it's good practice to wait for that first. I will deal with this more specifically in a moment when I deal with that point. Of course, that is also an option. But we certainly should not wait now to make the bottom of the labour market and flex work more expensive. But I am sure you understand me, Mr Wiersma. I know you as a wise man when I say that we would like to have the elements of this law, which I will also discuss in a moment, in particular the cumulation ground, which makes it easy to fire people, better substantiated, before we go along with such a radical measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u18	I'm very sensitive to compliments, but I'm not gonna let you talk me into this. The choice was very clear: if we do nothing we know what we get. Then we'll get more of the problems you're sketching. Yes, I can imagine that we want to know even better if it is going to work and what specific measure we can still adapt, but a lot of things together really show that they are going to produce something substantial. The choice you can make here is: I go for it or I choose to stop. You will make that choice when you say: first let's see. That's no good to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u19	I do think the spokesperson of the VVD is putting it down a little black and white. I think I've started quite nuanced. I have also said that there are measures in this law that we are very pleased with, which could easily come out of our own electoral programme. But there are also a number of measures that we are less able to talk about. As a parliamentary group in the opposition, you have long since been out of opposition, so for you that is different. Are we going to support that law or not? So, is this worth it to us? In that case, it is difficult that the measures we are less pleased with do not contain a very hard analysis which shows that these measures are really going to lead to a fairer labour market. So I am asking for that information now, because it helps us to make that choice better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u20	I'm looking a little bit. I understand very well that Mr Smeulders says: there is a lot in what I like. I think it's nice that he emphasizes that, too. There are also things that do not come out of GroenLinks' latest programme, because GroenLinks has also had a slightly different view on the right of dismissal at other times. But I'm just looking for what he's looking for. I think it is widely recognised that there is less flight to flex if you make the differences between flex and definitely smaller. I understand that he says that it is not completely crystallized forzzp yet, but looking purely at employees, I think there is quite a lot of knowledge about it that if you reduce the right of dismissal, because it is limited, as was said in the hearing, you are probably also doing something about long-term unemployment. You can reduce it a little bit. So I am still looking for exactly what Mr Smeulders is looking for. Because you can wait for everything to be calculated, but then you never take a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u21	I think this is a very justified interruption. Your question also makes it clear what the dilemma is for us. On the one hand, we are very pleased with the measures taken at the bottom. We also want to support them, but we still see the danger that there are still a lot of open ends in relation to zzp and that it is very easy to take refuge in them. We would very much like to support it, but we still have a lot of questions. Such an analysis could be very helpful, because then we know whether that is going to happen or not. We don't know that now. We expect it, but we don't know. On the other hand, of course, we are talking about relaxing the right of dismissal. That is also a difficult point for my group, because we have never been against it in principle, but we have always said that you should not do that until you have made flex really more expensive and if you really make it much less attractive to keep people in temporary flex jobs each time. That is exactly the dilemma we are facing today: are we going to go along with this law as a whole, and with it also the relaxation of the right of dismissal, without knowing whether the flex measures are really going to work? If that is not the case, then I see, in particular, that is actually a question I would like to ask again, which is that it becomes less attractive for workers rather than more attractive. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u22	Maybe we should switch places now. I understand that search. That is also the right of Mr Smeulders. I would be inclined to put on the other hand that we are actually taking a step backwards from the WW at one point, on the right of dismissal. There will be a limited extension, with also a higher remuneration; a point that might help Mr Smeulders. On the other hand, he says: a lot must be done against flex. At that point I see a lot in this law: it is proposed to increase the price, to strengthen the rights of payrollers, to do the transition fee from day one. In fact, I have heard movements today, including those from the coalition, which are going your way, for example, in terms of probation and perhaps also in terms of payroll. So you could have said that that balance is coming a whole lot your way, so you could have come to the weighting that it is so in balance with the right of dismissal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u23	We have two major objections to this law in substance. One has to do with probation. I'll get right on that. The other has to do with the protection of dismissals, in fact the relaxation of the right of dismissal. I suggest I explain our position on that first. After that, of course, you can all ask questions about this and I am happy to discuss it. We see the introduction of a new, more open land, with the relaxation of the right of dismissal and, in fact, the addition of the cumulation ground, which partly brings us back to the situation before the Work and Security Act. With the difference that at least higher fees were possible at the time, and that in the legislative proposal now before us it is a maximum of 150%. You had a debate on this with Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA this morning. Mr. Chairman. I have already asked for this in writing and I still do not think the argument is entirely clear. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to provide further support for this. Why opt for a higher transition fee if the cumulation ground is not a less sound grounds for dismissal? Because when you say "we think you should pay more," as a government, you admit that it's actually a little less decent. As a result, the second question is: what is the percentage of 150% actually based on? If that's what you want, isn't it more logical not to set a maximum? I heard this morning that there is something to be said for and against this. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this. This is very important, because the introduction of the cumulation ground is likely to have serious consequences. The negotiating position of workers in the event of a mutually agreed termination is likely to be less strong, as 150% is likely to be the maximum. And employers are likely to make massive use of this cumulation ground, a number of experts expected at the hearing, namely Saskia Peters and Gerrard Boot, both professor of labour law. We believe that the combination of these two things will make workers who are made redundant worse off than in recent years. Because before the WWZ we had less protection but higher fees. The WWZ turned that around: more protection but lower fees. The WAB offers less protection but also less fees. That sounds like the worst of both worlds. As GroenLinks, we are not enthusiastic about this; that is actually the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u24	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u25	No, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u26	Yes, I saw it, but were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u27	Not quite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u28	Maybe it's okay if you finish that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u29	Okay, I'd be happy to, Mr. Chairman. In addition, GroenLinks wonders whether the proposed measures are really going to lead to more fixed contracts; we have actually already talked about this. This was also questioned by experts during our hearing. In our view, the biggest pain for employers is, as has just been pointed out, rather the two years of pay for illness and the reintegration obligations associated with it. But this Minister has found a solution; congratulations for that. We're gonna talk about that as a Lower House, hopefully soon. Why, then, should we relax the right of dismissal if that is probably not going to lead to more permanent jobs? This really brings us to the most important question I would like to ask the Minister: what is the profit for the employees? Can the Minister elaborate on this? If we would like to change anything, GroenLinks considers it wiser to wait at least for the evaluation of the WWZ. The hearing also showed that judges had relatively little time to gain experience because of the recent entry into force of that law. So we do not think it is appropriate to say again that we are opening the door. That was my contribution on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u30	I'll come back to where we just left off, because that was a bit about the final judgment. I now have a specific interruption about the right of dismissal. The question of what workers are getting out of this is, of course, a legitimate question. My answer would be more likely to be a permanent contract. And because it's a limited adjustment, the judge doesn't dissolve the employment if you don't get higher remuneration and if the judge still doesn't find that in balance. I believe that all the legal people we heard in that block from the case-law have said that they thought that adjustment of that cumulation ground was limited and sensible. Some wanted to move forward, but there was still quite broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u31	It is true that during that hearing it was widely said that we could do this. The picture that we had a little bit of there and which was also confirmed last week at the meeting organized by a number of trade unions for MPs in preparation for this meeting is that fewer and fewer cases have been reached by the WWZ. The WWZ is therefore perhaps a success because the judge is less often involved. As judges say "give us a little more responsibility" I can understand that completely from the point of view of the judges, but we think a little that is because they are presented with far fewer cases and because they say in the cases they are presented with: give us a little more space to make a good assessment and don't make it so rigid. But I would also like to ask the Minister's views on this. But the side effect of that law, which is perhaps even more important, is that there are far fewer cases before the courts and that cases are resolved in advance by mutual agreement. And the latter is the best thing for everyone in our eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u32	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u33	I hope that Mr Smeulders did not mean it that way, but it sounded almost as if judges were against it now because they have less work. That was what was stuck with me. I hope it wasn't. The judges and the lawyers said that a larger proportion is not granted. That's what makes many SME entrepreneurs - I speak to many SME entrepreneurs - now I'm really shy. If that means that they do not dare to give that permanent contract, then Mr Smeulders must also be concerned. I hope that Mr Smeulders will acknowledge that what is now before us is a limited adjustment. In the end, he should not be in favour of that, but it is of course not the case that the locks open. Far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u34	First of all, I would like to address Mr Van Weyenberg's first point. That was absolutely not meant to be. I don't think I said it that way, but when it happened that way, I say it was absolutely not meant to be. In my opinion, D66 and GroenLinks are both parties with very high levels of justice. What I did say, and what I mean at least, is that judges see fewer cases. On the basis of these things, they can say "give us a little more space, because then we'd better get out." And I understand that. From the point of view of the judges, I fully understand that. The trade unions and their experts who assist people in many dismissal cases indicated what the positive thing about this law is: a lot of cases do not come to court anymore, but are actually resolved in advance by mutual agreement. We would be very sorry if the positive effect of the law were to disappear as a result of these measures. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u35	I see Mr Stoffer coming forward. He would like to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u36	Yes. Of course, I always have to come a little far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u37	Well, that's not so bad. And you're so young.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u38	Yes. That's relative, but okay. I'm just kind of in the neighborhood of the discharge and you're gonna get old, but... One question. We have tabled an amendment to increase the remuneration not only for the i-ground but also for those other grounds in such a way that a piece of customisation is needed there too. There's a lot of reasoning about that. I can also hear your reasoning. That's kind of like it. How do you view that amendment that we have tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u39	We are sympathetic to the fact that people who are likely to be fired or made redundant would receive higher compensation. I still have to study your amendment. I am sure you will explain this later, but we can support the principle of your amendment, if I understand what you are saying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u40	That sounds like music to me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u41	That's what I thought. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u42	Then I would like to continue with the second point that we were very concerned about in addition to that cumulation ground, and that was the five-month probation period. That was also the subject of the hearing on a regular basis. There are so many arguments for not doing so. I think they've all been reviewed there, but in our view the most important thing is that you can feel on your clogs that it's going to be very easy to take advantage of that. We are really afraid that it will become a kind of beach tent construction: the summer starts, people are hired and after five months or just a little less, after the summer, they will be thrown out again without an apology. Employees have hardly any protection for five months, and five months of uncertainty is a lot. We are therefore extremely pleased that we have read in the newspaper that the coalition parties also recognise that this is not a very good plan. In any case, Mr Van Weyenberg indicated it on behalf of D66. I therefore sincerely hope that the amendment we tabled together with the SP and the PvdA will receive broad support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u43	We will certainly support that amendment. You began to say this subject: you could feel on your clogs. I will come back to it in my speech, but don't you think this is a cheap trick? You put something really annoying in the window and you're gonna give it away to all the other points. I've been a negotiator, so I know the tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u44	A look at the negotiations of the FNV, a good lesson. I'll have to remember that. Maybe we should think about that next time before the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u45	It also seems to be interesting for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u46	To answer Mrs Van Brenk's question: I honestly do not know. She's actually asking me for a review of what the coalition did. In any case, I am very pleased that on a proposal that everyone and therefore all the experts are actually saying that you simply should not do so, the coalition also says: we simply do not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u47	In any case, we are very pleased that this can go away. But isn't Mr. Smeulders afraid that with that the rack is immediately out of the coalition to give away some more things?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u48	That is a question you are asking me, but you should actually ask the coalition groups. I very much hope that the other amendment that we have tabled, namely that on the cumulation ground, will also receive the support of the coalition, but I honestly wonder if that is the case. Anyway, we have not had the floor of all the coalition groups. Mr President, I will conclude. Both last autumn during the debate on the Social Affairs and Employment budget and last week during the debate on The Social State of the Netherlands, I made a passionate plea for more control but above all for more security. The relaxation of the right of dismissal does not contribute to greater security. That is precisely why I have tabled an amendment to remove it from this law. Since my other amendment is likely to have broad support, I really hope that it will be a little bit against better knowledge in the context of the coalition's progressive understanding of this point as well. I am also looking at the Minister, because this minister may be the minister of impossible matters, but he is also the minister of the constructive discussion. I therefore sincerely hope that he will take this up and look forward to his response to my input, but in particular to his response to the two amendments I have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr President, thank you. In recent years, everyone has worked hard to build the economy. I think we have no choice but to say that we have succeeded again. You cannot open up the newspaper or show new figures that there is less unemployment and that more jobs are filled. Then maybe we shouldn't just look at the figures. That's what we noticed with each other last week, but these figures do mean that a record number of people is at work, that a record number of people can take care of their families and that a record number of people with peace of mind can go to the movies again, for example. But only that record number is not yet 100% and so we also need to work together to shape the labour market in such a way that we are getting closer to 100%. That is not possible, however, if we are just going to stand up to each other. It doesn't work either if we just do one thing or just do the other thing, but only if we choose and-and. In order to achieve this, we must also recognise that not all the rules we have now work well. For example, we have often complicated things for entrepreneurs. In order to be able to hire or fire someone, you sometimes have to be half a labour lawyer and therefore entrepreneurs are reluctant to accept people or offer that permanent contract, when we want to. It runs counter to what we want here and also to what those entrepreneurs want. Because putting their people, their main assets under the feet, is something that a lot of entrepreneurs want. And then big risks, rigid rules and potentially high costs distract you pretty much. In addition, it also opens the door to cowboys who invent smart constructions to reduce wages, constructions that the employee suffers from. We have talked about this many times in this Chamber and we agree on this from left to right. Look at someone who works hard for his money and does exactly the same work as a colleague, but still gets less paid. I'm talking about unfair competition in the workplace. And then employees and flex workers andzzp'ers get in the way of each other. They are in each other's waters, and as a result a bad basis to fall back on when things are bad. That is what we see, because the labour market is becoming more and more difficult for both employers and employees. That is why we must dare to adapt the labour market to the wishes and rapid changes of our time, because the world is not standing still and it can be better and because we are obliged to do and improve things for all those people that are hard at work that day in, day out, rather than sticking around in just politics. Then we can once again be proud that we are getting it right for everyone and that we can ensure that everyone gets opportunities in the future and that there is enough and certain work. Crazy enough, I don't think anyone disagrees with that. And that might be very good news. Maybe this Labour Market bill is going into balance today, cheering through the Chamber. Are we going to see it? After all, you only have to open a newspaper, consult a random expert or do a smart action on Google, and you see the same conclusion everywhere: work changes through new technology, it becomes more international, there are other wishes and preferences to do the work and everyone says that an update is needed on how we organise that work. Despite the consensus on urgency, it doesn't work. At the moment, the polder model does not pay much tribute to its famous past; I have to say that. Because "balance in the labour market" could also have been the title of a beautiful piece of music from the polder, with taboos that have been broken and contradictions that are bad. But my polder heart bleeds, because that's not how the law goes into history. Not few people choose the path of their own equality: employers' organisations, workers' organisations, political parties. And so the polder and the labour market stand still, while we all know that the real labour market is moving more than ever. I'm sorry about that, because this is the time. Result is achieved by doing things and by taking things together, not by pushing things forward. You get the result because you stand next to all those well-willed entrepreneurs and workers who run into problems, rather than in front of them. In front of them, we're all here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u51	And so it is! The party of the doers; we're going to change the country. Everyone's crazy. We may have different opinions, but fortunately the VVD is there in this country to keep things in order. That's kind of the summary of this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u52	I'm living it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u53	I do not know whether Mr Wiersma and I read the same newspapers, but I also read other things in newspaper articles. It is right that a number of measures are being taken to make flex more expensive, but I see a lot of worrying articles about bogus structures, about self-employed people who are not insured, about the loss of part of income tax, because 40% of those who do not even pay. So I see not only that technology and the world are changing, but also that we are leaving a very large group behind. Does Mr Wiersma agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u54	Yeah, we gotta do things for that. That's what this bill does a number of things for. I will also say that it is an important step, but we need to do more. When it comes to the newspapers, I mentioned the record number of vacancies and the record number of people who find work again. We see that after very difficult years we will recover, and we have worked very hard to achieve that, together with all those people in the Netherlands. A lot of people also notice that things are getting better. But we also see in the labour market that there are people who would like to have a permanent job, but who are the victims of either an employer who does not dare, or cowboys who may make that impossible. I think they're both relevant. I also believe that together we should offer solutions to this and not stand against each other. We have to do this together, and this is an important step. I will make a few more proposals which I hope we can make together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u55	And I would like to see a lot of parties that want to take the next step here. With this law, therefore, you allow some of that division to exist in the labour market. The next step we should take together is to protect thezzp'ers. I call it the realization of this about disability, the possibility of pension building and tackling the sham structures. Can we also count on the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u56	We say: if you are an entrepreneur, then you are an entrepreneur. Then we also assume that you really are an entrepreneur. When we see that, and we see that sometimes there are people who are not entrepreneurs, then I want us to be able to offer those people that contract of employment, that we have that within our grasp. But that requires that we take this seriously too. That's what you have to do. There is no red button for it, a number of measures are needed. The first measures necessary for this are contained in this legislative proposal. Are we there? No. We're gonna have to go through with that. I will say a few things about this in a moment, also specifically aboutzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr. Chairman. I'll get on the bill. The VVD sees some important points that we welcome. It also sees points that can be even better and challenges wider than this bill. I just referred to it. I'll walk by this one. In order to balance the labour market, you cannot want one without doing the other. If we want to bring the steady track within reach for those who want it, there's no such thing as a red button. I told you. Then you have to dare to make that permanent job attractive, so that that entrepreneur, whether the baker is on the corner with four men or a large company, simply dares to offer solid ground. For that, this bill is simply taking important steps. This, together with economic growth, which is now also a driving force for permanent jobs, hopefully means that we will also see this acceleration. But I do ask: what is the Minister's expectation on this point? A number of questions have already been asked. What's realistic, I want to ask him honestly. At the WWZ, the Work and Security Act, the expectations were perhaps very great and compelling. In order to avoid disappointments, I think we should also be honest. We must also be honest about the fact that we do not escape the observation that, because of faster job changes and because of greater turnover rates of companies, today's and tomorrow's labour markets also have a higher degree of flexibility and that it will simply be more frequent to implement your work, especially flexible or self-employed. But that also offers new opportunities. And believe it or not, people just choose for themselves and want to be able to continue to choose for it. I can honestly say that this recognition is still a little lacking in the proposal. So I would also like a response from the Minister, because it is also a recognition of many people who do work with great pleasure or flexibility or self-employment. Mr. Chairman. The VVD welcomes the steps we are taking with regard to dismissal law. We'll simplify that. The world is not black and white and the sometimes mental impediment that entrepreneurs experience just deserves serious attention. This must be done in a way that works not only for the entrepreneur but also for the employee. Therefore, it is good that we can do better with a new ground to those complex situations that you want to say goodbye to each other. It is therefore a good thing that if an employer is not in such a situation in order, an additional compensation is possible. However, I would like to ask the Minister to stress that this is a bandwidth. From the round table I get the fear that this new ground can also become the standard ground and that in the absence of indications the 50% will always become the standard. That could undermine the purpose of this law. Does the Minister agree with us and how are we going to prevent that? Can he give us a more detailed explanation of how the judges are going to make those assessments in a moment? Although, of course, they have the freedom to do so, which they have often asked for. That's what we're offering them. Mr. Chairman. If you work flexibly and want to do it longer, this will be possible again. I just started a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u59	I see that Mr Gijs van Dijk ran to the microphone, so Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u60	I got confused for a second. I hear Mr Wiersma say on the one hand: ho, ho, we have agreed on a transition fee, up to 50% on it, but will that then be the standard and can the Minister give security buttons for that? On the other hand, of course, it is up to the judges. It can't be both. Is it up to the court to decide on compensation or are we going to set the standard here politically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u61	That's a good question. I'll take this at the round table, the hearing we had. There, judges, specifically two canton judges, said: I do not know how that will happen in a moment; I actually think I can always reach that 50%. Then I think we're gonna miss the goal, because the goal is to give that judge the room to figure out for himself what works and what doesn't work, and also do justice to a specific situation. On the contrary, I would like to make a plea to do justice to that particular situation, but there is a band of 0% to 50%. I would like to emphasise that this is indeed the case and that it is not the case that the judge thinks: oh, I should only do 50%. Because then, also, agreements are always going to be linked to that 50%, and then we are going to break that high threshold, which we also say we don't always want to do. With that, we want to make that permanent job more attractive again. That's my fear, and I want to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u62	However, I would like to refer to the report of that hearing. Mrs Ulrici was one of those canton judges who says that 50% really is a purely political choice. I would like to do more than that 50%, because that percentage is purely random. So there too, judges say, give us more space, and we really won't look unreasonable. But if it blows up, give that judge that freedom. So I would also like to call on the VVD to give that freedom, because then it is ultimately a political position. Mr Wiersma himself says that he considers the judge to have the knowledge and know-how to make such a decision himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u63	I ask the Minister to stress that the judge has that in that 50%, but to give the feeling that my fear, which I also had in that hearing, removes the fact that that judge will always choose that 50% standard, because I think that undermines the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mrs. Van den Brink. Van Brenk, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman; that's okay. I heard Mr Wiersma be positive about the right of dismissal. We now have the i-ground and therefore it is easy for employers to fire people. But I'm still trying to find that balance. Therefore, I do not understand why this law has been chosen to include those three-year deadlines, so it should be extended. You'd say hire and fire is what the VVD wants, what's the obstacle to hiring people after a year, because it's easy to fire them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'm just trying to figure out what the exact question is. Where are we from? The Work and Security Act had a number of goals. One of these important goals was also to make dismissal easier, fairer, but above all to provide permanent jobs, because many people are increasingly in need of it but cannot get it. Employers say: I want to offer that land, but I'm afraid if I do, what am I going to run into? For example, if you're a small entrepreneur, you don't always have all the knowledge. That's what scares you. And you may not have the money right away to count the old canton judge formula if you let go of it for that. That's what scares the whole employers. Well, I get that fear. What this law does is to help employers seduce those who offer permanent jobs. But also to say to them: you have to get things in order; if you don't have that, then the judge gets an extra opportunity... they don't now have... to simply grant a higher fee. I just said: I think that's fair. And I also said: I hope it works, which I don't know. I do hope that it really works and that these employers will indeed say: I dare to do it again. But we have to wait and see. I'm careful at this point to stretch that line further, because then I think we'll go back to the time of the canton judge's formula. And we are now at a time when this flexibilisation has taken place, which you also say you want to contain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mrs. Brenn, excuse me, Mrs. Van Brenn. I don't know what's going on with me today, but I've had all the variations in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u68	It'll all be family from somewhere, Mr. Chairman. I have doubts about Mr. Wiersma's explanation. He says: we are trying to strengthen things, to make the balance better, but we see it going in the wrong direction on both sides, at least as far as 50PLUS is concerned. You give more uncertainty, because instead of twice a year's contract you can now get three times a year's contract. That gives you longer uncertainty. Plus: you make dismissal easier and cheaper. It will also be cheaper for employers. What's the balance for employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u69	There are a lot of assumptions here that I don't follow. It doesn't automatically get cheaper. I have just said that an additional allowance can be granted if an employer does not have it in order. You can deny that, but it's just very hard in the law. Moreover, from day one you work, your dismissal fee, your transition fee will be built up. It's not right now. I think that's very fair. If an employer hires someone on a permanent basis, he will pay less WW premium for that. I think that's very sensible. And he's gonna pay more if he hires a flex force. These are all kinds of measures that help him, but which also help workers to get back in and get to that permanent job faster. That balance is in this bill. We're not there yet, but I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u70	A final attempt to get a more honest answer from the VVD. Mr Van Kent has calculated it and I will come back to it later. We have shown the difference between the canton court formula, which was around a tonne, the amount according to the WWZ, which was about half, and the proposal to reach a third. So two thirds of the severance pay had to hand in employees. They get fired easier and they have longer uncertainty. What's the balance, again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u71	What's the call, again? You want more permanent jobs, but at the same time you are going to make it so difficult for employers to do so even less than they do now. I don't follow that call. I think that's a call that doesn't fit in with what we want with each other. For that, you have to take more than one measure. I have said what measures we are all taking. So I'm not following that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u72	I have listened to Mr Wiersma in such a way. He tells wonderful stories, but when it comes to it, it becomes clear again that the VVD is defending the interests of multinationals here. If you were right, there would be no fixed contracts just before the termination fee was €108.000. Asscher's flex law has caused the fees to fall. There should therefore have been a lot of extra fixed posts. If we were to reduce the average remuneration for dismissal even further, as this cabinet wants, there would have to be more permanent appointments. But reality shows the opposite. What you are doing is putting extra money in the pockets of your supporters, the multinationals, by making them pay less high fees to employees. You can tell all kinds of beautiful stories, but when you get to the point, that's what you're doing here. Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u73	No, and I don't think I can convince Mr Van Kent of that when I hear him like that. Let's be honest. We have been seeing the number of permanent jobs increase since 2009, but we also see that you should not forget that entrepreneurs... I have heard the SP say many times: SMEs are so important; we need to look closely at them. In the meantime, one amendment passes by after another, making it so difficult for that entrepreneur to hire someone again. You deprive the entrepreneur, as it were, of the ability to recruit permanent staff again. You should look at that. You have to be honest about the fact that that requires something on both sides. You have to take action on both sides. Yes, that gives you more certainty as a flex force, but that also makes it easier to hire someone as an employer. That's the goal we share. But you have to have the courage to take measures. You can say "it's not working," but then nothing's gonna happen. So, no, I don't acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u74	Another story, Mr. Chairman! If we look at the calculation example of the CNV today, someone will base a discharge fee of €63,000 before the Work and Security Act into a discharge fee of €13,000. Who, according to Mr Wiersma, is taking advantage of this? Who benefits from that? Is that your constituency? Are these the big employers who do not deal with their employees, who then have to pay from the judge, but who can now get rid of their employees for an apple and an egg? Or is it the employees who get more permanent contracts? Who benefits from this measure, Mr. Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u75	All those hard-working entrepreneurs and workers who just want to get along, who don't make each other look like rotten fish every day, who see the labour market changing, who want to meet that, but also seek security. And they'll be happy to get that steady job back on their feet in no time. In front of those supporters, that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u76	Finally, I should like to say a word about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr Wiersma can try to tell me, but you can't tell me, and I don't think anyone who is following this debate either. You cannot tell me that if an employee of the right to €63,000 redundancy compensation goes back to €13,000, which is in favour of employees. No, Mr. Wiersma, that's in favor of your constituency! You stand here in favour of the interests of multinationals rather than defending the interests of employees of a decent compensation that covers the damage caused by dismissal. Therefore, the SP has also submitted a proposal to allow judges to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u78	The SP didn't give work and security at home. The SP doesn't give at home here. The SP says a lot of things, but I have no idea if they're really gonna mean anything. I told you in the beginning, I don't think I can convince you. I'll draw that conclusion again. I just want to get things done. This law is an opportunity for that. If you're not in on that, I'm very sorry. Especially unfortunate for all those people who are just trying to make something beautiful with each other, employers and employees, who have an eye for the concerns on both sides and who want to solve that. You don't want to fix it, you want to make it worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u79	I certainly do not join you when it comes to undermining workers' rights at the expense of workers and at the service of your supporters, namely VNO-NCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mr Wiersma indicated a number of times that he expected that relaxing the right of dismissal would lead to more permanent contracts. I am very curious to see what Mr Wiersma is basing that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u81	That is actually what we have just talked about in Mr Smeulder's contribution. I'm also looking for whether that's actually going to happen, I'm telling you. I also have a dilemma, because I also see that the Minister is trying very hard to refer to all kinds of reports and to say that this is going to work. At the same time, we also see that the OECD says that these differences in the labour market in the Netherlands may be an institutional problem. Technically, they say: on the one hand that fixed job, on the other hand that flex contract, that is so far apart that that is actually the big problem of flexibilisation. What we're doing with this law right now is bringing it closer together. We have the conviction that this will bring that permanent job closer, but also make that temporary job more secure for people, by also laying a bottom at the bottom that cowboys have to take the wind out of the sails. Whether or not this is the Holy Grail, we will have to see. I am not convinced of this, because I also see the criticisms of employers who say: I hope it will help, including in the mental blockade I mentioned. But we do need them very badly, because it is those entrepreneurs who create these jobs and we must trust them to help them get back into a permanent job. I hope it works, but we'll have to see how that goes in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u82	I would like to thank Mr Wiersma for his honest answer. I could ask you a huge question: should we not have more support? But it's gonna be accepted anyway. What I would like to know from Mr Wiersma is what he is going to do for people who may be more likely to be fired on this basis. I would like to clarify my question. I see Mr Wiersma looking a bit difficult. The right of dismissal will be relaxed. He himself states: I do not quite know whether this will lead to fixed contracts; we hope so, but we simply cannot say for sure. I understand. We can have a huge discussion about that, but I don't have to. We're not gonna figure that out, because you're so honest about that. I would be happy if you would say: yes, it will be easier to fire people; for those people who are more likely to be fired, we as VVD want to do this or this. Let me give you a hint: education, for example. You've always been a huge advocate in the Chamber for that. Are you therefore prepared to take additional measures in this area for people who have been working for a certain organisation for some time now, who are now becoming more vulnerable because of the relaxation of dismissal rights and who may be able to get out a little easier or a lot easier, so that we as a government are also doing something to ensure that those people are not in the card box of the UWV until their retirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u83	I understand the question now. How do we make sure that we really help people move towards perspective and a nice new job opportunity, if you stop at your old job, for example? Let me just straighten out what you're trying to put me on about that dismissal right. It's my job to make it easier, to make it faster, to make it better to offer that permanent job. That's the goal. I believe that this may even lead to workers staying longer with that employer. That employer also wants nothing but loyal staff, willing to work with that employer, knowledge and so on. I'd like to make that right. I really believe that this works well in principle to improve the connection with that employer. But of course, if you're born, there's something like 14 job changes in your life right now. You're gonna change jobs more and more. That doesn't even have to be a discharge. You may also make a different choice or have a beautiful dream that you want to achieve. I believe that we need to do much more in education. That gives me a good hook for a proposal that we are making today with the coalition to put education on the agenda much bigger, especially with the entrepreneur who might find it rather difficult to organise it because he is an SME entrepreneur. I'll say something about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u85	It has been said a little bit that, if you work flexibly and want to do it for longer, this law will make it possible to do it again. That's how we choose job security. That's important for the VVD. Too often we heard that someone lost the job, not because there was no job, but because a permanent job was not yet possible. That's a shame, so what do you choose? With this bill we choose both: faster that permanent job, but also space for temporary work. An important benefit of this proposal is also room for tailor-made work. Sometimes this can be even better, for example when it comes to seasonal work. I'll get to that in a minute. This bill also introduces a compensation scheme for entrepreneurs who end their business because of illness, retirement or death, but always want to pay the accumulated transition fee to their employees. It indicates that this cabinet has an eye for the legitimate concerns that are there. The cabinet comes up with such a compensation arrangement, and I'm happy about that. I did read in the internet consultation that the scheme might cost less than we had in the government agreement. I hope the Minister will be able to explain this, because then I have an idea. Mr. Chairman. I come to the points that we would like to improve. My first point is education. Mr Smeulders already gave me a nice hook. Last Friday I was at GKB in Barendrecht, a family business with 140 people. It's been around since the war. They deal with a very wide palette: from trees, plants, playgrounds to the greening of municipalities maintained. Because they have such a wide palette, they would very much like to have a training that can bring new people into their company as well as make their current staff better. They couldn't find that training. They then came up with that training themselves, made according to all requirements, inspection standards, complicated numbers and all applications, and they succeeded. It cost them a fortune, but they wanted it, and they did it. Not everyone has been awarded that in SMEs, but we actually want it. We actually want this SME to be able to invest in education and perhaps even that whole culture, which has learning culture, well organised in its workplace, so that it is attractive to develop there and not take that big step towards that school, because that sometimes keeps people off learning. This cabinet gives a lifelong development a very important place. We are very pleased with that, because that is an important focal point for a more future in the labour market. With more and more job changes and faster changes, it is important to be prepared for the next step. We are pleased that there is now more room to use the transition fee for training to another position and to make it negotiable on the work floor, but we are not there yet. That is why I am making a concrete proposal. Is the Minister prepared to devote the resources we now have from the compensation scheme that we have devised for employers to training, specifically targeted at SMEs, aimed at creating and strengthening a learning culture? If I've seen it right on the Internet consultation, we're talking about about about 60 million. I would love it if we could use a small 50 million for such a scheme for SMEs. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another point that should be better: the seasonal work. Recently, we have heard from many employers that a permanent job is not in all cases an option, for example if you work at a beach tent, strawberry nursery or amusement park. I just complimented the minister on his space for customization. I would like to do the same here, but there is still some work to be done. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to do so. First of all, it is now possible to tailor the chain if the work can only be done for a maximum of nine months due to climatic reasons. Social partners have previously made agreements in good consultation, for example on the interim period for temporary contracts. Does the Minister see any possibility of doing that here? And does the Minister agree that there are good reasons to meet employers in this? Since we may not be able to steer everything sectorally, I'm also looking for a way to meet that employers' quest. Could we make an exception for a limited group, for example people under 21 with a limited number of hours, to pay the low premium? Could we also make an effort to work with collective bargaining parties to find ways to catch up with the intermediate periods in the chain, for example in order to be able to pay the low premium for the WW? So my appeal is: can we look for opportunities to meet employers with their legitimate concerns? I am also considering amendments on this point. Mr. Chairman. There are also doubts among the same employers about the standard of annual hours. It's a nice idea, but employers ask: how does it work out in practice and how do I use it in such a way that I can hire the people I want because I want to offer them a decent wage, but I can also say that I can't guarantee all year's work? Is that a square circle or are we really gonna do that right with the annual hour standard? How does the Minister ensure that it is not only a good idea but that it will work? Finally. Like my colleague Van Weyenberg, I would like to draw attention to sport. There are several signs that the measures we are taking now may have consequences there. Does the Minister oversee it and is he prepared to draw attention to it? For example, does he want to talk to the KNVB about the criticism they have? Does he want to map out how big the problem is and also look for possible solutions for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u86	I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u87	This piece is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u88	What piece do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u89	I still have a lot of pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u90	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u91	But very good bits, I find myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u92	No, because you said last comment. All right, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u93	For those who just thought I was exaggerating when I said that Mr Wiersma was sensitive to the VNO lobby: this was exactly the VNO lobby on this bill. They said: go exempt groups from that higher WW premium for flex. My question to Mr Wiersma is: exactly which groups do you want to serve? How are you going to delineate that? Where's the border on the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u94	I just happened to look at the SP website. There are fantastic stories about SMEs: these companies are so important, you have to offer tailor-made solutions and you have to be there for them when they run into problems. But what we can see is that the SME with the beach tent, or the strawberry grower, is running into problems. What you are doing is saying with an amendment: it does not have to think four days in advance with its call contracts whether it happens to be hailing tomorrow; he cannot predict that. Then you say: then maybe you should start predicting two weeks in advance, otherwise you have bad luck. This is not a tailor-made approach for SMEs, which is to turn their backs on SMEs. I do not understand at all why Mr Van Kent is not saying here: they have a point and we have to do something about it together. I'd like to challenge him to do something for this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u95	It is very tempting to fall into this trap and to argue why Mr Wiersma is wrong, but does Mr Wiersma know what my question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u96	I tried to answer Mr Van Kent's question with my appeal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u97	With a you-bowl.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u98	... to say: we must take seriously what those entrepreneurs say. And all you're saying is that I'm not going to take that seriously at all, I'm going to say that they're all multinationals and that it's all big business. But the fact is that this entrepreneur has a problem. He's got seasonal work. He has nine months of work a year, but not always in the same period. My request is: can we take this into account more in the collective agreement and can we not meet this employer in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u99	Do you remember my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yes, the question was, what are you going to do for this group? I just gave the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u101	No, that wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u102	Repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u103	My question was which groups Mr Wiersma wants to serve exactly, where this demarcation is located. I asked a very serious question. All I get is blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u104	Blabla wasn't my valuation. But I answered that question by saying that those groups have entrepreneurs, just because they depend on climatic conditions, for example, not all year's work, and they do not have that fixed job option all year round. I ask: can we not find a solution together? I asked a number of questions about this in reply to Mr Van Kent's question. I think that group is very relevant, yes. So that's what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u105	That is in no way a delineation. In fact, you're making the group bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u106	No, that's the group that has to do with seasonal work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u107	Does a catering entrepreneur with a terrace that is open all year round also fall under this category? If the climate is against, the terrace is empty. Where do you delineate it, where is the border for you? Are you going to allow this for all employers who can say: the weather is down, so it's down; give me that low WW rate? Where's the border for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u108	On the contrary, I call for a sectoral approach and for them to be able to discuss these borders with each other. In 2015, the social partners agreed on the chain clauses, so at intervals you could also join.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u109	Finally, I can only conclude that you are here on behalf of VNO-NCW shooting a hole in this law. Because if you put the border like this, as you put it now, it's going to mean you're gonna shoot a hole in making flex more expensive and making it more attractive, and I'm very disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u110	I don't draw that conclusion. I don't follow them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u111	It's getting more and more cozy around here, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's time to suspend for a while and call Hans de Boer. No, I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u112	It wasn't chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u113	No, it wasn't chosen. And luckily, Mr. Chairman, that's a personal observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u114	I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u115	Let's get back to the question, because this is essential. The more exceptions you're going to make for categories, the more lobbying you're going to get to the Ministry, saying: yes, but I also have a very special circumstance. I would like to go back to the point that Mr Wiersma asked the Minister to make an exception for people under 21 years of age. I would like more clarification on that. I have the same concern as Mr. Van Kent: where does the special circumstance for a sector or a company begin and end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u116	I didn't ask for nothing first about the possibility of joining the chain determination. But I also see in the note on the report that the Minister says: that is not feasible for the Tax Administration. So that's not how we're gonna solve it. Then you can say "we won't do anything," or we'll look for ways to do something. I have presented two options to the Minister. The first is to give more opportunities in collective agreements to deviate, for example from the measures in the call for tenders. In good consultation between the social partners, as in the chain-setting process, we can create that space. That's one. Two: can we also respond in another way, for example in the group of 21-year-olds? Can we not meet the people who do not increase the damage burden in the WW and usually do their job as a side job, for example if they work a very limited number of hours? Then you're sure it's a side job. As far as I am concerned, you also demand that they be registered with an educational institution, so that you can respond as specifically as possible to the concerns that entrepreneurs have in seasonal work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u117	I can well imagine part one: that you are taking care of it at sectoral level. That is what I said in my own contribution. Employers and employees can say: we really have a special situation here. They know the practice. So I can imagine that perfectly. That's how it went with the WWZ with LTO. But if you're gonna do that second thing, there's a chance that we're gonna be able to work with young people here from the Chamber. We have partially abolished the youth wage again. But this would put enormous pressure on young workers. If you reach a certain age, for example 21 years old, you can say thank you and goodbye. I really want to warn the VVD not to do that and I want to ask her to leave it to the sectors themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u118	I am not blind to Mr Van Dijk's concern. But I see the same concern on the other hand, when it comes to the owner of a beach tent or a kite surf school, or to a strawberry grower who has nine months a year, or perhaps less, to offer work and whose employees may not even enter the WW. If it is not possible to join the chain clause in the law, can we not find another way to meet it? I'll make that choice. I hear Mr Van Dijk say: I do not make that choice; I only make it by collective agreement. That's our difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u120	I come to the third important point that we want to make here, namely that it is not black and white. With this law, we introduced the premium differentiation, a technical word, into the WW. We're going to make the fixed contract more attractive because you pay a low WW premium for it. For a flex contract you pay a high WW premium. But one flex isn't the other. This is also seen by more and more collective bargaining parties. They sometimes make agreements on long-term temporary contracts in collective agreements. But what is the advantage of opting for a long-term temporary contract or for a very short-term call contract? Don't we want to put too many things in one booth that don't actually belong in one booth? Should we not also pay attention to other categories, in which flex is long-term and offers more security? Should we not make this more attractive in the future? Shouldn't we dare to distinguish that? We shouldn't just throw everything into that high rate. If a temporary contract can provide more security and training, it also creates an incentive to offer it earlier. Does the Minister agree with us and would he also like to investigate this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to a number of points, which we are discussing a little bit less. The first point is payroll. On that point, this bill, perhaps at last, is making a lot of adjustments. It has been stressed by the Chamber, earlier on in the Hamer motion, many times; it is good that this is happening now. That's where we're concerned. For we have a definition of which opinions are divided and which parties also say: this might make it more complex for the small entrepreneur in particular who likes to pay the same terms of employment, but who is not doing it at all; it concerns the baker on the corner, who simply doesn't know all the administrative things he has to do for it. How are we going to take this entrepreneur well into the complexity of this new law and help him do it right and get it right? We must prevent him from doing the opposite, namely not putting someone back to work. That would put the horse behind the cart. Does the Minister agree with us? My colleague Van Weyenberg has said something about pensions. Let me say: if we want to create a similar situation with working conditions, then pension is just part of that. I have already tried to find a solution in dealing with the proposal for a left-wing initiative. In my view, this is a solution that we can agree on in this law. Mr. Chairman. On this point of the payroll, like Mr Gijs van Dijk and a number of other colleagues, I am concerned about the Cedris problem: the people who come to work from job agreements are sometimes posted and perhaps are going to run into problems with this law. You don't want that; you want to have these people at work, can also offer and continue to offer work. I am pleased that the Minister now wants to find a solution to this in the letter of amendment. He says he needs time for that. I get that. I'd like to give the Minister that time, too. I just want to ask him to make sure that we solve that point of the payroll before the bill goes into effect, so that it goes into effect at the same time. Otherwise, I think we are creating more confusion, and we do not want that. Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed the probationary period in this debate. There are so many doubts about extending the probation period to five months that we think you should think that through if you want to do that right. That doesn't mean we shouldn't think about it, because that's what I'm hearing here a little bit about ways that can make us help that employer anyway. For example, if you get a temporary contract after a year and someone offers you a permanent contract immediately after that year, we will see if we can offer some kind of opportunity to pay the low WW premium. These are ideas from the sectors themselves. Can we look for other beautiful forms that can help employers to offer that fixed contract? Because this is a thought experiment and it would be a shame if we stopped thinking about it altogether. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the end of my story. For the labour market, this law is an important step. This is a step on both sides, for employers and for employees, in terms of security but also in terms of risks. That's where we need to find the balance. We're not there yet. Many of the issues that have already been mentioned in this Chamber are also important: pay-as-you-go is very high on our list. We are glad that we have achieved a nice approach to this before Christmas. But it still has to go in. We still have to see if it's going to work; we have to wait and see. That doesn't just apply to that. The same goes forzzp'ers. That's where we're on the right track with our ideas, but we have to work that out, and that's in a hurry. And I sometimes think: we should have had that Borstlap committee now. If only we had the courage to make big choices by now. We don't have time to waste. That is why we must take this step before this law, but we must not shy away from those other steps either. We need to examine with each other what more fundamental steps we need to take in the areas of labour law and social security. I liked the way Mr Smeulders said it: we need to see in the future what basis you want to provide for people who work. Because in the future, more and more people will choose whether to work permanently, flexibly or independently, and then it is up to us to ensure that people can do so properly, that that is well arranged. With this law, we take the first step, but we must move forward. I encourage the Minister to speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr Smeulders. You were done, weren't you, Mr. Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u122	Yes. "Thank you" had to go after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u123	Okay. It's okay. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u124	I have a question on the last point made by Mr Wiersma. That was about the committee on the future of the labour market. I think it is very positive that the VVD also says: let that happen as soon as possible. What I also think is positive is Mr Wiersma's reaction to my speech to see whether it is possible to have a single basis for all workers, regardless of the contract. I'm really curious how the VVD would see that base.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u125	That is why I said: if only we had the Borstlap Committee, because then we could have had the debate on this. We're all looking for that. Interesting reports have been published, for example from the AWVN, which is also looking for new ways to organise work, but also to ensure surety. I think there are a lot of considerations in that. I'm just afraid we won't make any real choices if we just stick Band-Aids. I would therefore encourage everyone to make real choices and to move forward with them. We see every day that it's crunching on the labour market. We also note that this law is going to do some things about it, but it does not really solve everything. We have to. So we have to make real choices. And what they are going to look like, that is actually Mr Smeulder's question I cannot anticipate now either, but I would say that I would like to do it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u126	It is very attractive to start that debate now, but let us not. I have one follow-up question on the five-month probation period. I am very pleased that the VVD is also critical about this. Does that also mean that you are going to support my amendment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u127	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u128	Good. Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mr. Chairman. Three years ago, the PVV predicted that the introduction of the Work and Security Act was a bad plan. We have warned that removing the protection of dismissals and the flexibility of the labour market would be bad for the Dutch employee. A lot of people have lost their jobs in recent years. They've been discarded. A lot of these people can barely make it to the end of the month. The Party for Freedom is consistent and clear: workers are not disposable napkins; stay away from our welfare state. Mr. Chairman. The PVV would have preferred not to be right. Because there's been terrible housekeeping. The uncertainty in large parts of the middle class continues to grow. The WWZ is a terrible law. That's all there is to it. And now we have to repair it already, after three years, because all the promises about narrowing the gap between fixed and flex have not come true either. That gap is only getting bigger and bigger. The market now shows that employers' choice of fixed or flexible staff is based not on the nature of the work, but rather on costs and risks. Really, employers looking at expenses? And that surprises anyone in this room? Mr. Chairman. So now we have to talk about a new law, the Labour Market Act in balance, but this new law doesn't fix anything. Everything's just gonna break down. And again, it's already clear where it's gonna go wrong. Take the probation. Why should there be an extension of the probation period from two to five months? What kind of bullshit is that? What's wrong with a two-month probation period? Anyone in this house who's ever had a real job knows that there's always a one-month probation period or two. That's more than enough; after two months you'll know what it's worth. And then there are the proposals on the annual contracts. What evidence of incompetence! First there were a maximum of three, then we went back to two and now it has to go back to three years. If we give employers the opportunity to actually apply a three-year probation period, doesn't anyone in this room believe that we are helping more people to get a permanent job? And then the right of dismissal. People with fixed contracts get less protection. It's gonna be easier and cheaper to fire permanent staff. The PVV is and remains against relaxing the right of dismissal. And why do we need to relax? Here in this house the VVD and D66 are always shouting that companies cannot find enough people and that there are far too few employees. Then why further relax and make dismissal cheaper? It is unbelievable: this minister comes up with some sort of crisis law at a time of high economics. This law mainly contains measures to make it easier to dismiss workers and to give workers a temporary contract more often in succession. This coalition, this minister, then says that it will be more attractive for employers to give someone a permanent job, because that is the reasoning that reduces the risk of having difficulty getting rid of a staff member. So, in the end, every job becomes a flex job. You'll never be sure of your job in this country again. If your boss wants to get rid of you, you can. Well, good! Is that what the Minister means by "shrinking the gap between fixed and flex"? It doesn't stop, Mr. Chairman, especially under Rutte III. We've had to work longer. The purchasing power of the common Dutchman is broken. Pensions are cut, unelected bureaucrats from Brussels take over power and soon meat and a warm house become virtually priceless. The certainty that people still have is now being demolished. Not only the labour market is out of balance. The whole society is gradually out of balance: through migration, through Islam, through declining purchasing power, through longer working, through street terror and by looking away politicians. There's no other way. The Freedom Party chooses freedom, purchasing power and security. The PVV wants to stop further deterioration. Stop the race to the bottom! The present law is not a solution to the current problems. In fact, many organisations are of the same opinion. The Council of State is even strongly opposed. I quote: "The proposal is so bad that Koolmees' apologize; that is what the Council of State says "should have swallowed it better'. The PVV understands that Minister Koolmees is desperately looking for a success. So far everything has failed, from pension law to betterzzp legislation, but the future and security of and for the Dutch employee are more important than the question of whether this ministership is going to fail. So we ask the Minister not to push through this law because he will be a little better on it. Look at Dutch society. This law doesn't make it any better. The Party for Freedom chooses the Netherlands. So should this minister and this coalition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u130	Thank you, Mr. Edgar Mulder. There's no need to recover from your speech, I think we'll need a short suspension before we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u131	I give the floor to Mr Kuzu, who is already ready, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a thick package and it took a long time, but finally it is here: the crown jewel of D66 Minister Koolmees, the Labour Market Act in balance. To begin with the title: what a total disenchanted title. The spin doctors of this D66 minister have probably spent months breeding this title to divert attention from the disastrous consequences. This bill does not create a balance at all. This bill plunges workers into the nightmare of uncertainty and is a fantasy of the caviar-loving and wine-sipping lobby of big business. VNO-NCW is satisfied with the pink cloud and is watching from the Malie Tower what is happening here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. While in recent decades the profits of large companies have been rising and rising and rising and while large companies have been rewarded by this cabinet with tax rebates, which means that multinationals have to pay less and less tax, while all this is happening, the ordinary, normal Dutchman for whom this cabinet said to do it, is looking at a vulgar increase in VAT, an outrageous increase in their own risk of care and an excessive increase in the energy bill. As a result, the people of the country fall short of purchasing power year after year. And as if that weren't enough, D66 Minister Koolmees, together with his right-wing friends of the VVD and the CDA, is tearing down the long-fated security of employees. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this bill should not be called labour market law in balance at all. This cabinet opts for big business and distributes tax rebates to multinationals, while on the other hand, this government grabs the ordinary people and takes away workers' rights. Hence, DENK has tabled an amendment to amend the citation title of the law of Labour Market Act in Balance in Labour Market Act off balance. Mr. Chairman. We are right to ask the Minister. Why do you choose big business? Why do you choose the big money? Why do you choose the bicycle elite and not the normal Dutchman? Because with the blunt axe, D66 runner Koolmees cuts into employees in our country. It's not for nothing that all unions are fatal, fatal, against his law. I would like to mention a number of comments. I quote the FNV: We do not see how this law should create more permanent jobs; people are going to be in the flex mill longer; this law takes the labour market further out of balance. I take it this piece is not said by this minister. The CNV says: insufficient and disappointing; new dismissal law is outlawing workers; the new law accelerates flexibilisation and offers workers even less security than is currently the case; therefore, decline. The VCP, the Department of Professionals, is very critical of the bill. Following a careful assessment of the measures, the VCP concludes that this law will not lead to a better labour market balance. And that is why my questions to the Minister are as follows. What do these unmistakable reactions do to him? What does he think of all the unions he's put in his armor? How dare he go through with his law in this form while half the polder spits out his proposal? Is he prepared to sit down again at the table to come to a law that unions can live with? Mr. Chairman. In any case, a package of measures that DENK can live with has the following characteristics. One. We need to get rid of this D66 minister's erosion of the fire protection. In the previous cabinet period, besides the many disasters of Rutte and Asscher, there was a few good developments. The most important development was, of course, the creation of DENK. Another good development was to strengthen the protection of dismissals. With the introduction of the Work and Security Act, the reasons why dismissal can take place are included in the law. The result was a so-called closed termination system which sets out the route of dismissal to which grounds of dismissal had to be followed, and uniform rules have been laid down to check dismissal. An employer can only resign if one of the reasons listed in the law is demonstrably at issue. If that is not the case, then it is quite clear: no dismissal. It can't be any clearer. As a result, more certainty was offered to the employee. The dismissal of an employee was no longer allowed on the basis of small facts to fit on a paper. But what happens now? The clock is reversed in a manner of speaking. The fire protection will be thrown into the trash can. The single-fact structure will be abolished and the cumulation measure will be re-implemented. The accumulation of circumstances will provide a reasonable basis for dismissal, adding a new ground to the reasonable grounds for dismissal, the so-called i-ground. This ground means that there must be a combination of circumstances from two or more dismissal grounds. And what is the result of this? The times of stasi-like practices in which malicious employers diligently look for small dots to build a dismissal file are returning. The smartest and shrewd HR employees are going to rule the workplace. By sticking labels on workers' actions, they will sneak up on files to get rid of people. That's the end of the employee's security. Does the Minister share these concerns? Does he agree with DENK that the cumulation ground can also lead to dismissal if a land cannot be fully substantiated and that workers become more insecure? Does the Minister share the view that by making it possible to combine grounds, the right of dismissal is made more complicated and unclear? Why all this red tape? Why does this minister want to interfere with the current system while research by the University of Amsterdam shows that judges consider the grounds for termination of the contract of employment sufficient for the variety of cases that occur in practice? Why does this minister think he knows better than judges who experience everyday practice? Why is this minister interfering with the current system when the current system also needs time to be properly implemented? Aren't we too early? I would like a reply from the Minister to the questions mentioned above. Mr. Chairman. For DENK it is clear that this minister should not interfere with the current system, because the Netherlands is waiting for only one relaxation of the right of dismissal and that is about the dismissal of Mark Rutte. After eight years, the Netherlands is full of him. Fortunately, in March, voters can bring Mark Rutte a little closer to the exit. For the ordinary, normal Dutch, DENK does want the protection of dismissals to be maintained. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the proposals by which the government puts workers even more into uncertainty. The period after which successive temporary contracts shall enter into a contract for an indefinite period shall be extended from two to three years. The so-called chain clause, which was shortened under Rutte/Asscher from three to two years, is thus simply extended again. Here too, one of the good points of the previous cabinet is thrown overboard. Workers must therefore wait longer for a fixed contract if it is up to D66, CDA, VVD and ChristenUnion. Workers only know after three years what they are up to and whether they will get a permanent contract. If that is not the case, the chain will simply run all over again with another employer. Waiting endlessly for a little security on the labour market with all the consequences. I really wonder why the Minister is doing this. Why is the Minister going against the Council of State on this issue? For, according to the Council of State, the extension of the chain system lacks a convincing analysis that will lead to more stable jobs. Then why is the Minister going through with this? Mr. Chairman. Then the third point, the transition fee. Again, the worker is disproportionately affected. The structure of the transition fee is limited for employees on employment contracts that have lasted more than 10 years. After the tenth year of work, not half but a third month's salary is built up. By reducing the structure, the final transition fee for long-term employees will be lower. Is this group, because it is sometimes less likely in the labour market, not even more dependent on this compensation? Doesn't this group need retraining more often? Does this group not need additional income security? Doesn't this bother the Minister with this measure? Doesn't he just grab these people in their wallet and their developmental opportunities? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the above considerations, DENK is extremely critical of the present legislative proposal. The enormous disadvantages for workers in the country do not outweigh the benefits of the proposal, because, honestly, there are indeed benefits. DENK is satisfied with the system in which a higher WW premium will have to be paid for flex contracts than for fixed contracts. By making flex more expensive than fixed, there is an incentive to offer fixed contracts. That is certainty that workers are waiting for. DENK is also satisfied with the protection of call workers: the employee must be called up at least four days in advance and does not have to respond to the call if this time limit is not met. The needless availability of the call terror is thus off the track. DENK is also happy that payroll workers are subject to the same conditions of employment as employees who are directly employed. Payrolling must not lead to less favourable working conditions for workers or to competition on employment conditions for employers. But any bill that seeks to achieve more fixed contracts is doomed to failure if no decisive measures are taken on the subject of pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness. For small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the system of pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness is a major obstacle to hiring staff. Half of small SMEs indicate that they do not hire staff because of rules on pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness. That's a harsh conclusion from research. Insurance to solve this problem is too expensive for many entrepreneurs. As early as 2016, therefore, DENK proposed to amend the Disease Act on the second year to exempt SMEs up to 25 employees from the second year of payment of pay in the event of illness and disability and to ensure that the public authorities will take care of the costs. This was partially incorporated by the coalition into the coalition agreement. In it we can read that the pay-by-pay period for small employers, up to 25 employees, is reduced from two to one year. The collective costs of the second year are covered by a uniform charge-covering premium payable by small employers. DENK was not yet entirely satisfied with this, but it was a step in the right direction, which was, however, deviated from on 20 December of the previous year. What is now before us is a premium discount of 450 million and a kind of support group to improve the transparency of the system and the functioning of insurance. DENK is not sufficiently convinced that this will lead to significant improvements. How much of the 450 million, I ask the Minister, is actually falling down on small and medium-sized enterprises in the form of lower burdens? How much will the burden go down? Do these outweigh the costs and risks of payment of wages in the event of illness? Can the Minister convince us that his solution, compared to the proposal from the government agreement, will lead to more permanent jobs? Mr President, I should like to say a few words about this. The Labour Market Act balances the labour market, unfortunately, out of balance. The positive developments do not outweigh the relaxation of the right of dismissal, the endless temporary contracts and the limitation of the transition fee, which affect workers in the labour market. This bill is a step backwards in that respect, and DENK wants to move forward. As far as we're concerned, this minister can go back to the drawing board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Chairman. It is never pleasant to have to point out culprits, but I would like to do so this afternoon with three culprits on the labour market. And no, it's not the employees. It's not the employers either. And, Mr. President, the Minister doesn't have to look anxious, because he isn't either. They are not individuals, but they are the legal rules: the rules on pay-through, the rules onzzp'ers and the rules on dismissal. These culprits keep the labour market seriously out of balance. Friend and enemy actually agree on that. The government also seems to think that the balance between fixed and flexible work is considerably lost. Otherwise, you don't send a labour market law into balance to this parliament. At the SGP, a labour market bill in balance responds very much to the need, because once you walk into the street, you literally run into the problems. Think of that meal delivery guy who got out of his contract. Think also of job-makingzzp'ers who are forced to refrain from a social safety net in order not to lose the competitive edge. But we also see a small entrepreneur moaning under the excessive payment of wages for which he has to pay in full in the event of illness of one of his employees. And I am thinking of the e-mails that continue to flow steadily from older unemployed people, who become despondent, distraught and angry with that endless job application. They want to be useful in the labour market, but they hardly get a chance. This has to be different. There's no other way. The problems are caused by rules which the legislator himself has created and which the legislator can therefore easily change itself. The SGP welcomes the fact that the government sees and wants to tackle the problems. The SGP also supports the Council of State's call for urgency and that we will not get away with delay and half-time work. And that's where the shoe in this government starts to wring a little bit. The bill suggests that the labour market is being fully balanced, but unfortunately the coalition agreement shows a different picture. With the bill, the government takes only one of those three culprits into the collar: the right of dismissal. There are plans to deal with the payment of wages, but we still have to wait for the results. The Council of State also notes that the tax treatment ofzzp'ers is in fact completely out of control by the government. Those discs are being manipulated, but the fiscal stimulus is hardly changing. Would it not be wise to open the coalition agreement on this issue, too, if the coalition is currently trying to change everything? Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, possible to argue as a defence that the legislative proposal is not yet enough, but at least a first step in the right direction. And let us be clear: the SGP likes to support every step in the right direction. But we're not sure about that in advance. The measures cannot be seen separately. For example, the government wants to discourage flexible work by introducing a high premium. The intention is that employers should opt for more fixed contracts. But why doesn't this stimulate morezzp'ers? Can the government explain why this risk would not be sufficiently real? Creativity in the labour market is boundless if finances are at stake. The SGP requires adjustments in order to be able to see the bill as a good first step. In the course of my speech, I focus on the following three themes: balanced dismissal arrangements, fair employers' burdens and increased opportunities for older unemployed people. First, the balanced arrangement for dismissal. Research into the new right of dismissal shows that the system of the law does not have a satisfactory solution for all situations. The SGP supported the change of direction of the Work and Security Act to assess more critically whether dismissal is reasonable. It was to be expected that this course would lead to more rejections, for example because employers do not have their files in order. At the same time, however, judges point out that sometimes they do not have enough room to do justice to the concrete situation that they see before them. It happens that there are all kinds of factors coming together, which lead to the conclusion that dismissal is actually inevitable. The SGP therefore considers it understandable that the government wants to create a new ground for this. My question is whether it is known in how many cases the current law continues to lead to lingering problems. And, which is very important to us: we would like to get more coloration of that new soil. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he wants to make a few practical examples clear when an allocation or rejection can be considered and what role the level of remuneration plays in it. Because something of the wrong color socks and so on, it shouldn't be. As far as we are concerned, it must be a solid ground. The SGP believes that the judge should have an unabated critical attitude on the new ground, because we are not supposed to take a walk with that new ground and we are about back in the old situation and the old system. Our question is whether the Minister shares that view. Does he consider, for example, that an application should be rejected in advance if it appears that the employer has not done enough to obtain dismissal on a full-time basis? And if the Minister states that the judge is not judging the new ground, what exactly is the difference? This additional fee also raises the necessary questions. Although the ceiling creates a framework, does the Minister recognise that the court will have to develop a new kind of formula with an additional remuneration? Why is this development left entirely to the courts in the event of additional compensation? The SGP sees as a problem that the unilateral possibility of additional compensation in the case of cumulation reinforces the idea that this land is less full-fledged and serious. I have heard colleagues say something about this before. It seems to us that the government is also undermining its own story, but I assume that it is not and that there is a very good motivation for that. In addition, it may also be desirable for other reasons to grant an employer more than the transition fee, we believe. I have therefore also tabled an amendment to give the judge full-scale customization. I would like to receive a response to that. In addition, can the Minister also explain the tax status of the additional remuneration if he is still working on it? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the honest burden on employers. The Netherlands is unique when it comes to how we deal with employers. Unfortunately, this is not a compliment in this case, because Dutch employers are having a hard time. While the average pay for sickness in other European countries is two weeks, this is two years in the Netherlands. The SGP believes it is important for employers to assume their responsibility for workers, but the government has a responsibility for us to establish fair rules. Can the Minister explain why it takes so much effort to say goodbye to a regulation which, in our view, is excessive and which is not known anywhere else in Europe? Does the fear reign here, or are there studies that show that this is the great success factor of the Dutch model? The SGP considers it fairer that we as a society bear that second year of pay-through, provided that we have an extra critical test after a year or there is real ground for that. Does the Minister think that his new proposals can really take away the experience of pay as a millstone? The bill also creates new burdens and obligations for employers. Some of them think the SGP is really crazy. Take, for example, the rule that wages should be paid if working hours change within four days before the agreed time. Let me explain. Suppose student Wouter has the entire Friday off on Friday morning and plans to work on that morning. But on Wednesday before that, his boss calls asking if he can work not on Friday morning, but on Friday afternoon. "That's fine," says Wouter, "because then I'm entitled to a full day's pay." And he's gonna turn around in his bed one more time. Mr. Chairman. That is the situation we do not want to get into. That is actually what we see, as it is now in this bill, coming from it. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we should not want such arrangements in this law either. The SGP notes that the bill does not take sufficient account of additional jobs for students and students. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to protect the employer from additional obligations in this situation. The SGP also calls for specific attention to be paid to employers dealing with seasonal work. Think of agriculture and horticulture, but also sectors such as recreation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u135	I see you're almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u136	I'm at three-quarters, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u137	Then I'm going to see Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u138	I am very curious when Wouter will have to be heard on the SGP when he is expected to be in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u139	At least before he has to be there, but let me say that the previous day seems very reasonable to me. Such a four-day period in a situation of a holiday job or a side job should not be so imposed by rules. Then you get the situation that you get paid a whole day for a few hours of work. I'd find a day reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u140	If Wouter wants to make plans for Friday on Thursday, can Wouter only decide on Thursday whether or not he can visit family on Friday or do any other activity, because he doesn't know whether or not he should work that Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u141	Look, in most situations, this won't be such a point, but it's my point that someone can't demand that someone can't assume that if anything changes, he gets paid a whole day instead of half a day. Then you're gonna do this kind of work... You may have other examples in which this is very poignant, but in a side job it is often a matter of 'you have some'. I don't know what you used to have for side jobs, but I've had a lot of them, for example as a bikemaker. And then it happened all the time that it wasn't necessary in the morning and it was necessary in the afternoon. In situations like that, you shouldn't want it to be paid for all the time. To return to your question, I find a day in advance very reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr Van Kent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u143	I worked at a hotel service on Saturday. That was every Saturday. The nice thing about that was that I could make plans for Friday and Sunday. Your plans on Sunday would probably be different from mine, but it was nice to know what I had to do. It seems reasonable to me that an employer should let an employee know when to show up. My party believes that it should be possible even two weeks in advance, because an employer can make schedules. The SGP says here: a day in advance you should be able to hear that you have to show up. I am surprised at that, and I certainly do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u144	Look, there's two differences. First of all, that "come out." It's not always gonna change every week. But the fact that you're paid for a side job when you haven't worked and that you can demand it, we think that goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u145	I heard a sweet baby voice in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u146	Yeah, that sounded kind of cute. Mr President, I will continue with the rest of my contribution, because I do not think that the SP and the SGP will agree on this. I was talking about agriculture and horticulture and recreation. In our view, this legislative proposal makes it even more difficult for them to do so, while they cannot do much about it themselves. As an alternative, the Minister mentions annual contracts, but also those which often offer no comfort to employees and employers and lead to all kinds of practical difficulties. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to extend the legal exception for this work in the chain clause to the new obligations. I would like to get a response to that amendment. I also call for attention to be paid to health criticism. There it is strange that the special accessibility services fall outside the Working Time Act on the one hand, while on the other hand they lead to a higher premium, because they usually exceed the 30% limit. My question is whether the Minister would like to respond to that. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point: more opportunities for older unemployed people. Unfortunately, it is not news that the opportunities of older unemployed people for a new job are very bad. Here, too, pay for employers seems to be the greatest scare. I ask the Minister if he sees room for action for the elderly in the preparation of his plans. What does he think of the suggestion that at least for this group, for example from 55 years of age onwards, the payment of wages should be reduced or substantially reduced? To help this group really needs a lot of movement. Would the Minister once again urge employers to look more seriously at alternative functions rather than exiting older workers? The SGP is also concerned about the expiry of the transitional regime for 50-plussers in the transition fee. I believe that Mrs Van Brenk will say something about this later, but this is also an issue for us. The table provided shows that this group will get a big chew from next year on. The SGP would like the judge to be given the opportunity to provide tailor-made services as an alternative to this scheme. This additional allowance can take into account, among other things, the age and also the opportunities of people in the labour market. This customisation is not only necessary in the case of the new cumulation ground, but may also be desirable in the case of existing legal grounds. Why should an additional allowance not be possible if, for example, an employee is unfit for his job, while the dismissal is not seriously reprehensible? My amendment on the system of fees also provides a solution to this. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, Mr President. The SGP still has the necessary questions open to it to make a final assessment of this bill. The SGP is happy to help solve existing problems in advance, but it must be absolutely clear that, on balance, this is a step, a real step, in the right direction. I hope that at the end of this debate we can clarify this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal is an important step in balancing our labour market, and it is an important task for politics, because the dividing lines in our society are getting sharper. Mr Smeulders also started by referring to last week's debate on the SCP. I am thinking of the dividing line between winners and losers, between high- and low-skilled people, between those who are insiders in the labour market and those who no longer intervene, and those who can come along and those who get caught up. When it comes to combating horizontal fragmentation in our society, the labour market is not the only challenge we have, but it is one of the most important. The status quo in the labour market currently has winners and losers and therefore breaking that status quo is something that raises resistance. This is something we have seen in the polder over the past few months: employers and employees are often opposed to each other in the assessment of this bill. For years, it was adagium, also of many parties in this house, "fast is too firm and flex is too flex." And now employers and employees often seem to be calling out the most loudly that only "fixed is too solid" is a problem, or just "flex is too flexible." With that both only tell half the story and that is a pity. I am convinced that the only way to combat this gap in the labour market, as well as the division of society, is to make a movement at the same time. And it is just important that people get more perspective on that permanent job, including those who do not have it now, in this economic tide, and that fluctuating flex, purely on financial grounds, is being combated. The central question next is: how do you do this? How do you manage that employers who want to feel more space to give that fixed contract and that the road to a construct is being taken a little less quickly in sectors where constructs are on the rise? In my opinion, you need roots and sticks for that, and that is what this bill is looking for. Incentives are being sought on both sides to bring that labour market more into balance. The risk of using only sticks is that sticks do scare away, but you don't know what to do. That risk was also mentioned in this debate; Mr Smeulders spoke about the effect of waterbeds. There's a risk. My point is that these roots also help to prevent this. A carrot lures somewhere. However, I share with several speakers in this debate that it is also very important that the measures we are taking to deal with freaked-out structures be implemented as a matter of urgency. From this point of view, I would therefore like to urge the Minister to keep up the momentum in this process and to put forward proposals as soon as possible to reduce the risk of a waterbed as much as possible. I will comment on many of the measures taken by the cabinet that I agree with, but I would like to start with a measure that I am convinced we should not do. That will not surprise you, since Mr Van Weyenberg, in his term of office, already took a bit of the tension by referring to me. I thought the extended probation period was an interesting idea, but we cannot ignore the fact that, even in the hearing that is organized, none of the experts thought it was a good idea. They mainly pointed to the risks of abuse associated with it. Then the conclusion is that an interesting thought is not yet a sensible idea. That is why I shall spare Mr Smeulders the run-up to the interrupting microphone. I would also like to support the amendment tabled to remove it from the law. That saves another interruption, Mr. President. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he would like to comment on whether he thinks that the risks it presents are greater than the opportunities it offers. My party is, however, in favour of the amendment of the right of dismissal. As far as the Work and Security Act is concerned, as I said to Mr Van Dijk, I had discussions with Minister Asscher at the time on whether the grounds of the new law are not too oppressive, the possibilities of dragging proceedings, and the head-wrestling of small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is not just small entrepreneurs who are trying to give people a chance at all on the labour market. The risk is, therefore, that selection at the gate becomes an answer, actually analogous to the risk that different parties see here also about pay in case of illness. Mr Smeulders was right to say that we are doing something about this. I think that should also be done here. The adjustment of the right of dismissal in the subsequent period was a very important step in trying to balance that labour market. Thus, this bill is not a total break with the past, but is in line with the thinking that was present at the time. The adjustment that we are making now, I think, is sensible, because it gives a little more room for the judge to dissolve, something I also advocated at the time. This makes it the barrier for employers to offer people a permanent contract, hopefully a little smaller. I also think it wise that the cabinet should choose to differentiate the amount of the WW premium according to contract form and that the transition fee should be introduced from day one. These are sensible measures that I believe GroenLinks advocated at the time. This has also been found in the coalition agreement and has rightly become part of this bill in the search to bring more balance to the labour market on two sides, to give more people the chance of a permanent contract, on a permanent job, and to give employers who wish to do so the feeling that they have the courage to do so. At the same time, you also have risks of waterbed effects here. I wonder whether the Minister would like to respond to this, also given the search that several spokesmen have already mentioned in their term. Mr Van Dijk already indicated, Mr Van Weyenberg joined, but Mr Stoffer is also looking for amendments, how to obtain more tailor-made work in the sector, for example in seasonal work. I think that's wise. Real seasonal work, I want to find a solution to that, too. This is also in line with the pleas made by many employers' organisations to do something about this. I would like to join previous speakers, who have also referred to sport, in saying that there are concerns there too. My question to the Minister is first of all: what room does he see for more sectoral tailor-made work and does he want to respond seriously to proposals that have already been made here? From the construction are...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u149	I am very curious to see where the CDA is defined in this proposal. Because there are a lot of risks here, plus the fact that there is also an increased influx into the WW during seasonal work. If people are fired every year and are not entitled to WW, it is not surprising that these employers contribute extra to that WW pot. I'd like a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u150	Every exception you make brings with it the risk of abuse. That's always the complicated thing about this. I find Mr Van Dijk's and Mr Van Weyenberg's quest for more sectoral space interesting. In the WWZ, also with adjustments and so on, there was already more space. I have seen Mr Stoffer look for opportunities to broaden them. I am charmed by that and I am also curious about the Minister's response to it. Also the search to look at small jobs among students, for example, I find no crazy way of thinking. I am also looking forward to the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u151	One of the reasons why the Social Insurance Bank functions well in terms of the AOW is because it is the same for everyone. At the moment we're going to make exceptions, you're going to have all kinds of demarcation problems and also implementation problems, I guess, at the Tax Office. We all know what the IRS is like. You also run the risk that employers will wrongly claim that there is seasonal work. Does Mr Van Weyenberg, sorry, Mr Heerma not see that in this law...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u152	They're so much alike.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u153	Well, Mr. Heerma is more handsome, isn't he, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u154	Well, don't be unkind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u155	Does he see that in this law that simplicity can ensure that it works well and that if we make the complex, there can be all kinds of problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u156	In any case, I am very pleased that you indicate that the law is going to work well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u157	Here's to this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u158	I also take your question seriously. This is always a complicated consideration, but it's not new. During the previous period, I have been on the sidelines with your predecessor, Mr Ulenbelt, on a regular basis when, due to implementation costs, regulations were abolished which were, on the contrary, highly valued in the sector. Part of that came from the predecessor of the former Secretary of State. It was also often then: exceptions are difficult, hassle. So, yeah, there's that trade-off. But as your predecessor and I have sometimes been side by side in order to maintain exceptions which were about artists' arrangements, and that was all about frosts, I am looking for exceptions here just as well, because the labour market is not uniform. I see the risk. That is why I am curious about the Minister's response to how to give tailor-made work and at the same time keep the risks Mr Van Kent points out as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u159	I also see some reasons for making exceptions here and there. That's what I think we're quick to agree on. But I really want to make sure that this is going to lead to abuse and to the failure of this part of a law that the SP is in favour of. In my first question I had also asked the question to address the fact that this temporary work is partly due to influx into the WW and that, of course, some of this measure is also intended to make the person who provides a lot of influx into the WW extra contribution to the WW pots from which the benefits are paid. Of course, that's quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u160	Let me begin with the fact that I support the proposal for the WW premium differentiation. It is agreed in the coalition agreement, because it is also conceptually a good idea to reduce the gap between solid and flex. It is also, I believe, one of the measures most supported here by all parties. At the same time I see, no different than in the previous period, how it leads to problems if you do not pay attention to the fact that seasonal work there you didn't see any space for customization at the WWZ. After the WWZ I fought in opposition at various times for more room for that. I think that is very important now too, because I think it is a point that is different according to the nature of the work and not just climatologically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u161	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u162	I'd already interrupted three times. My question was whether, as a result of the fact that people are entering the WW and the higher WW premium, it is not reasonable that these employers should also contribute extra. That's what my question was about. It is a different subject than whether or not to make an exception. It is more about the principle behind the differentiation of premiums.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u163	The principle behind the differentiation of premiums is one of the reasons why we have proposed to make that fixed contract relatively cheaper and more flexible. You can also see that the consequences of this are very different in any case. Some sectors are more pleased with this than others. I understand that the construction industry is making a plea for more training. They say that we have surpluses when it comes to premiums. On the other hand, this is another sector which seems to benefit greatly from the new system. The main idea is that there is broad support for this in the Chamber. At the same time, I see sectors where the effects can be different and I have a specific eye for and concern about seasonal work. That's why I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u164	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u165	Through the bridge of construction I want to go to education. Mr Van Kent has saved me some speaking time. Thank you for that; that is very courteous of you. Mr Wiersma mentioned the 48 million we see to give more room for training in SMEs. Precisely because there are bottlenecks in SMEs and given all the debates on them, I think that we see the importance of lifelong learning in the Chamber and that there is support for it. I would like a response from the Minister and confirmation that the money is also there that we think we can find in that arrangement. But I have an extra wish for that. If I look closely, there's a little more money. I would also like to see, from my concern about seasonal work, whether we can still do something about training in sectors with seasonal work, because many of the, once again, right choices in principle in this law seem to create many risks and bottlenecks. I would also like a response from the Minister. I think about agriculture and horticulture, but that also plays in the catering industry, for example. One last point on this subject is about an exception; I am looking at Mr Van Kent with an oblique eye. Several concerns were raised in the session we had recently with the SME Netherlands. One was about the calamity settlement and the frostbite. The new system we choose may also create problems, while sectoral solidarity agreements have often been made. These are exceptions that often meant solidarity between large and small companies, because these large companies were often able to cope better with unworkable weather than small companies. I understand that this is going to fall within the framework of the current system and within the movement towards premium differentiation, which we also support, but I do agree with the argument from those sectors that this solidarity is of value. That is why I ask the Minister: if you look at this calamity regime and the frostbite, what are the possibilities within the system for meeting these sectors? We have already had several debates on pay-rolling this period, also because the three left-wing parties almost simultaneously with the outcome of the coalition agreement... I see Mr Van Kent thinking: we were a little earlier. Perhaps that was not the case with the other proposal, but good ideas sometimes have many fathers and mothers. We're gonna do a little more about that. I think that's wise. Also in the previous period, I think it was a question within the coalition: are we going to do more about the bad and unwanted consequences of payrolling, where financial motives seem to be a motive? In the debate on the proposal for an initiative, we have asked quite a lot of questions in terms of: what about pensions; is that feasible? But as with the probationary period, the mind doesn't stand still. How can you shape that in a good way so that these pensions are properly arranged? Here too, Mr Van Weyenberg has taken away some of the tension about my contribution. The three conditions he laid down, no waiting time, something good for next of kin, and that average premium, I think, is good conditions. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he intends to design the AMvB with these three conditions. Because then, and I think that is at least in his idea and in his direction very much in line with what the opposition has long wanted here, we are really going to do something to counteract the wrong motives for payrolling. So I'd like a serious reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u166	This also refers to our own initiative proposal, in which we stated in the letter of amendment that the amount of the payroller's pension contributions should be aligned with that of the person who has a contract in that company. Is Mr. Heerma also the room to see if you can have some kind of choice model? I asked earlier whether the Minister could clarify whether that average premium was a little more than enough. Suppose that's the case, then I can well imagine that a company can choose: either I'm just doing the investment scheme, or I'm choosing an average premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u167	I would particularly like to await the Minister's response to your question, because the search for a good solution is rather complicated. At the same time, over the last few months, we have also thought about the question: how can you really do it right? Then I come to these conditions, where I believe that the average premium is substantially higher than what was previously thought of and can really be a solution. I think we are very close, but perhaps not entirely in the technique, perhaps not quite in the exact numbers, from where I think the wish was on your side. Several speakers before me have already mentioned the concerns expressed by the ABU and the NBBU against the payroll measures, and on the other hand from Cedris. I would also like to make a distinction between these two. If, like yesterday, there are arguments that, by doing something about the wrong motives for payrolling, people can no longer get to work at all, then I am not very sensitive to that. Then you can always say: no, only fixed is a problem. If you're gonna do something about this, people are gonna get even more weird constructions, they're not gonna get a job at all. So I'm not sensitive to that. Those payroll constructions for wrong motives we really need to do something about. We will. We are now trying to do even better with pensions. But I am sensitive to Cedris' plea, which I have heard several speakers on. Cedris is concerned that social postings are being put at a disadvantage here. How can you prevent that? Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Dijk have also exchanged views in an interrupting debate that it is still technically difficult to make that distinction. But I would also like to ask the Minister: can we not respond to this in a limited and targeted way? And is that something that is still possible at the moment or is it otherwise possible to build something in, if necessary, so that we can come back to it if something is found at a later date? I'd like a response to that. Following on from Mr Van Weyenberg, I must also say, in line with the discussion on payroll, that I have seen a lot of reports over the last few years that cause concern about structures applied by companies in the broadcasting sector or around it. That was recently, when RTL News came up with a slightly different view of fraud with the WW. There would have been deliberate constructions on that. Mr Van Weyenberg also mentioned the meat processing industry. However, several examples have also been put forward by the FNV about contracting, why this would also happen with the wrong motives. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has said this in a debate. Someone from the broadcasting industry said, "If you're gonna unpack payrolling, there's gonna be more contracting." Mr Van Weyenberg said at the time: that is not a reason for me to think 'then we do nothing about payrolling'; then perhaps we should also look at contracting. From this point of view, and we have had a debate on this earlier, I would also like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared to look more clearly at what sectors it occurs in, what the structures are and in what numbers they occur in. 'Cause if we're gonna fight a waterbed effect, maybe just looking at payroll isn't enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u168	It is good that Mr Heerma brings this up. This is one of my concerns. I don't know all the constructions that temporary employment agencies use, but there are structures where wages are lower. This goes directly against the principle which I believe is widely shared in the Chamber: equal pay for equal work. I'm very concerned about that. I would also like to have a closer look at this, but I would also like to say to each other today in this Chamber: this kind of practice, especially if wages are evaded, is really undesirable. I think it is positive that Mr Heerma is putting this forward, but we are also very careful when we know that it is growing best. At least I'm getting those signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u169	If things happen that the daylight cannot many, then it must be maintained. Mr Van Dijk's question seems to be a bit about that border area. In individual cases, we, sometimes together with D66, have also asked several questions, for example: shouldn't we be maintained here? This also applies tozzp-constructions. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answers. If this is followed by court rulings, what does that mean for the current enforcement practice? When it comes to contracting, I may have a slightly different approach to Mr Van Dijk. This form may be growing, but the main concern is that it could grow exponentially if other forms are addressed. That's also something the FNV warns about. This also has to do with the question of what kind of constructions are being made around the WW. I also mention revolving doors to prevent people from asking for more pension contributions and that sort of thing. Where does it happen? What scale does it take? When is it really outside the law and will we have to enforce? And what measures do we have to take to counter what is allowed but undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u170	We have indeed dealt with this before. On 8 November we received a letter from Mr Koolmees analysing the discussions with employers and employees. A reconnaissance has been announced. I have to admit that I may be a bit of abusing this interruption. Could we not ask the Minister together whether we can get a stand-by or the outcome of this exploration for the general discussion, which I believe will take place in a week or two, so that we can follow up? Because I believe that after this law has been dealt with, there will be some room in our agendas for us to quickly, together with the Minister, to resolve this problem by means of laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u171	That question is passed on to the Minister through Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u172	I don't have to answer anymore. I find this in itself quite a pleasant way to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u173	This is a pleasant collaboration so!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u174	You may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u175	I would like Mr Van Kent to abuse this interruption. It's a possibility. At the same time, I may want to go a step further than an exploration and I want this really to be investigated, because since then new constructions have also come to light. So I think we're good with each other in terms of intent. As for the way in which: let us also wait for the Minister's answer on how this is designed. Otherwise, we may have a second deadline for tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u176	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u177	I welcome the fact that more protection is being given to the call forces and that measures have been taken to that end. This is one of the elements in creating a more balanced balance with a palette of measures. Then the temporary contracts. There has been a lot of discussion about the chain regime here, but it was there in the previous period. That is precisely when I pointed out the risk of creating a new revolving door on the labour market by going back to two years, by the way, combined with the subsequent transition fee. That is why I may look at this law a little differently than some members of the opposition. Mr Smeulders is often looking for this not only because of the absolute numbers it produces more. The SCP also says that dividing lines have been skewed. In practice, this two-year chain regime means that people who often got that fixed contract after three years get it a little faster. But it also leads to people who had less perspective on it, after two years and thus faster on the street. For them, the revolving door has turned faster. In view of the whole range of measures, I think it is wise for us to go back to three years. I am giving Mr Van Kent one more chance, because I have finished my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u178	A brief question, Mr. Van Kent. Are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u179	I ask Mr Heerma how confident he is in the measures in this law that prevent people from being fired after two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u180	Short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u181	That is a very general question. I have great confidence in the fact that we are taking measures on both sides that encourage employers to offer permanent contracts again, together with measures that prevent wrong forms of flex, flex for wrong reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u182	Will we then wait for these measures to be drawn up before we apply that third year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u183	The complicated thing is that, for example, we are also going to do the transition fee from day one. There are measures that you are in favour of and there are measures that you are more sceptical about. I think it is a sensible balance. We have listened carefully, for example, to the criticism of the extended probation period, and we do not do some things. I have already advocated this measure in the previous period, so I think it is a sensible measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u184	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u185	If we are really going to promote flex, and we are going to do so now, then surely there is no need to think in advance that this is not going to work properly and that it is therefore necessary to give employers the opportunity to leave workers in uncertainty for a year longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u186	I indicated at the time that I felt the risk of the three-to-two-year decline was that people would get a steady job faster, while others would get on the streets faster and turn the revolving door faster for them. As a whole, therefore, I consider this measure to be a sensible measure after three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u187	Mr Heerma made an appeal to the Minister: now get on with the legislation. That's what we think. Our concern, which I believe you share, is that we may now run the risk of more and more people being pushed towards self-employment, into false self-employment. Should we not wait until we have the total palette with this legislation, so that we can make a proper assessment? 'Cause now we're doing something, and before you know it, you called the waterbed effect all the way down the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u188	You are actually asking me the same question as I asked Mr Smeulders, who is now also directly opposite me, in his term, because he seemed to suggest it. He didn't actually answer that in the affirmative. I don't think so myself. On the employers' side, some suggest: just wait with this, don't do it. For me, however, the fact that there are other risks does not mean that we do not have to implement these measures to bring more balance to bear. That was also the answer given at the meeting of the FNV. That's where the question was asked: shouldn't you wait for all these other things? There too the answer was: no, we should simply introduce this law because it does contribute to a more balanced labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u189	So what does the CDA think is an acceptable deadline? We are almost beginning to believe that there will never be proper legislation onzzp because it is constantly being postponed, under the guise of "it's so difficult."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u190	I do believe that it is complex and complex, but the fact that I have indicated to the Minister that there is a need to speed up and that I ask him to make a strong effort to do so indicates a fact that I have not given up hope, and b that I think it is important that it should happen and that it should happen as soon as possible, precisely in order to prevent waterbed effects. Indeed, I do see the great risks that there are withzzp-constructions. And then there are the discussions about the ruling on Deliveroo and the question of whether it already offers additional tools in the current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u191	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u192	Finally, Mr President. Do I have the CDA on my side when I say that we are both looking forward to this legislation coming to the Chamber this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u193	It would be a very good thing if this legislation were to come to the Chamber this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u194	I deliberately waited until the end of Mr Heerma's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u195	You're building the tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u196	It's not that bad. I have done so in particular because I know the CDA as a party committed to broad public support. I have, of course, heard Mr Heerma say very much that he thinks that the law is in balance, with the sticks and with the roots. But if we are honest, we can see that both employers and employees are not really happy about it. In response to the law, the Minister said: well, then it will be good. I am very curious how the CDA looks at that, precisely because that social support is so much in the DNA of that party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u197	Nice. All very nice compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u198	You always have to pay attention in politics, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u199	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u200	Thank you for that warning, Mr. Chairman. If I hadn't, I might have collapsed. It is true that my party very much believes in the power of the polder. I have also made no secret in the previous debates that I am very sorry that the atmosphere in the polder is not at present such that employers and employees can meet in making agreements. In addition, what happened at the end of last year in the area of sickness pay and the WIA is a hopeful step. I, too, would have preferred employers and employees to come out among themselves, for example during the formation. I have seen in recent months that is perhaps partly a reaction to Minister Koolmees' observation that there is a tendency among employers and employees to call increasingly louder what parts of the law they do not like. Fortunately, both of them also mention what they like about it, but these are often just diametrically different parts, because they are really opposite each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u201	I recognize this position from the CDA. I have also indicated in my term that one component for GroenLinks is really complicated, and that is the cumulation ground. We also had a little debate on this. I would like to ask Mr Heerma a question about this. We also hear from experts that the cumulation ground may become the new standard discharge ground. Isn't that what the CDA's afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u202	Sometimes that was with you perhaps a little less I have the impression that I have been to another hearing. A lot of people say what the picture of that hearing was, but I heard the experts there mainly say that this measure was actually quite a good measure. I daresay that if we were to tarry what measure the experts have called the worst measure, the probationary period would come out as number one. The probation would be number one, and we've listened to it. But I think that the cumulation ground might be the number one that was said in the written contributions and there too on the spot: that is actually a good thing to do. During the previous period, we also warned against the risk of creating a problem with the Work and Security Act, although we supported the movement that was used with it. We are trying to solve that problem. I have heard a great deal of support for this in the expert hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u203	I expected that answer a little bit, also on the basis of the hearing. I would like to ask one further question. All the coalition spokesmen to whom I have asked today on the basis of which they think there will be more permanent contracts, say: we cannot really support that. I am curious to hear your response, but above all your response to the follow-up question that I am going to ask. If it turns out that this is not going to lead to more permanent contracts, are you prepared to say, in a manner of speaking, within a year or two, that it was not really wise to relax that right of dismissal; we should reverse that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u204	I find your first question really very complicated. Do you know why I find it complicated? Because you, as a spokesperson, do not do so in the case of measures that you are in favour of. The assumption that the adjustments to the payment of wages will have a positive effect is also an assumption from GroenLinks and we share that. This assumption also comes from a practice of sitting at the table with employers. I have also referred to this in previous debates. I went to an SME meeting in Amsterdam once; that's where I was with Mr Van Weyenberg. There were all kinds of entrepreneurs sitting at the table with each other. There came an open conversation between the entrepreneurs, which we were almost witnessing, about what dilemmas they have. In it, you saw that family businesses and small SMEs with a heart for their staff often struggle with pay-through in case of illness, with the right to resign and with the question of whether they still dare to hire staff. There were also many younger and more cheesy entrepreneurs who said that they are not affected at all and that they solve this in other ways. Can I prove it at the point of payment? No, but you can't. Can we prove it when it comes to the right of dismissal? No, but these signals, these conversations with those real SMEs and those real entrepreneurs about who we want to make the law work better and what we want to prevent, are the basis for this. I think that the adjustment we are making now is an improvement. That is not a new insight for me, because that is what I advocated in the previous period. Can I prove it? No, but that is not possible with the payment of wages in case of illness, and yet you are not asking to analyse this more. That's because you support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u206	There was a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u207	I believe that I have wronged Mr Smeulder because I have not answered something, but that is not conscious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u208	That is the disadvantage of too many questions and long interruptions. You'll forget half of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u209	Yes. The second question was: should conversations with entrepreneurs in two years' time show that this has not worked out as you had hoped, are you prepared to reverse this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u210	A brief answer, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u211	I'm not convinced that's gonna turn out to be true. I'm sure it'll help. I believe that it is up to all of us to ensure that, over the years, certain parts of any legislation have the wrong effects, that we continue to have a debate that we must continue to have together. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u212	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr. Chairman. A small high-tech entrepreneur in Drenthe told me the other day: "In the event of one of my people's illness, not paying my own salary is the only buffer I have." An intercedent in home care told me how bizarre she thinks that her management should leave people at home for six months each while she lacks hands. "Must" in "must be left" is, of course, in quotes. The other day someone with a slight handicap told me: "I'm often placed temporarily at beautiful companies, but as soon as it comes to whether I can be employed, they won't dare to do it with me." These are just three examples from practice that indicate how much labour market legislation affects people's lives. These are three examples which all outline the delicate balance between interests, on the one hand, offering opportunities and on the other hand, providing protection. We therefore urgently need to take measures to improve the balance of labour markets, because we see that overall industrial relations have changed rapidly in recent years. A lifetime with the same boss has become a rarity. Let us not lose sight of the positive side of that either. Many people consciously choose to switch jobs or sectors or to work as a self-employed person. They thrive on that, too. Mobility has increased enormously, and this certainly has positive aspects, but at the same time we see that our social security system is at stake because of the changing industrial relations. And because of the huge increase inzzp'ers, we face considerable challenges in relation to our collective schemes and pensions. So today we are actually talking about half a legislative proposal, because thezzp measures in the coalition agreement are an integral part of this. After all, we see that with manyzzp'ers but also with people with flexible contracts their securities are under pressure: do I still have income now and later, do I build up pension and what happens if I become disabled? These are many issues that call for firm action. Mr. Chairman. I think it is very important that the issue of self-employed workers in the labour market is taken into account. I should therefore like to ask the Minister to explain his position on the proposed measures concerning the self-employed. This question has been asked more often today. For my group, it is important that these routes remain close together and that the measure to protect self-employed workers at the basis of the labour market and to avoid false self-employment is also speeded up. Can the Minister elaborate on this? How does the government intend to prevent the measures contained in this bill from leading employers to hire cheapzzp'ers and thus to create an even greater gap between employees in employment andzzp'ers? Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to a number of specific points in the legislative proposal. With regard to flexible work, the following. The Christian Union sees the value and need of flexible work, both for employers and employees. In several sectors there are employers who, by definition, work with temporary and flexible contracts because of the nature of their business. There are also many workers who consciously opt for flexible work, such as those with side jobs and those who combine multiple jobs. Examples include associations and clubs, which often work with mutual satisfaction with flexible employment contracts. Can the Minister explain how flexible work remains feasible and affordable if it is desired or even necessary? Are exceptions or compensatory measures necessary for employers for whom the proposed measures have unintentional negative effects? Then there's the chain determination. The Christian Union asks the government to clarify how an extension of the chain regime will contribute to the "fixedly less fixed, flex less flex." The expected effect is that workers will continue to work on the basis of a temporary contract for longer than is currently the case and will therefore have to wait longer for a fixed contract. We just heard the discussions. I would like to hear the Minister's explanation. However, I think it is a positive point that the chain clause does not apply to substitute workers who cover sick teachers in primary education. This gives some breathing space to schools that have to use replacements regularly, for example in the flu months. It also reflects the fact that Article 23 of the Constitution states that education is a subject of continuing concern to the government. Mr. Chairman. I have questions about the proposed measure regarding the extension of the probationary period. What is the Minister's view of this now that he will have heard all the contributions? Does this not indeed involve the risk that the employer will terminate the contract shortly before the expiry of the five-month probation period and make the offer of a temporary contract? Like my colleagues, I am very critical of this. I also very much wonder whether this measure should be continued. Then it's about payroll. I would ask the Minister to go into the question of whether the proposed definition of the payroll agreement is sufficiently precise and clearly defined. Isn't that how there's no confusion between broadcasting and payroll? Are the good ones not going to suffer from the evil ones because the evil ones will look up the loopholes in the proposed definition and employers will look for alternatives such as contracting orzzp-constructions? When it comes to payroll, I would also like to draw attention to Cedris' plea to maintain opportunities for rewarding, broadcasting and sustainable posting of people with an enlarged distance from the labour market. I thank the Minister for the letter of amendment that came to us this afternoon. This creates the possibility of measures for these people. For the proposed measures seem to have significant consequences for the opportunities of social development companies, for example, to reward, broadcast or post people who are remote from the labour market, as this law might consider this to be payrolling. This is undesirable as far as the Christian Union is concerned, because we want to make sure that these people come and stay at work. How does the Minister see this and how does he intend to proceed? Mr. Chairman. I think it is important for the Minister to clarify how we really ensure that payrolling will involve both an adequate retirement and survivors' pension, for example, by applying the average employer's contribution. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Furthermore, we see that the legislative proposal moves a lot towards lower regulation. Although I understand this choice, I can imagine that the Chamber would like to express its opinion on it, for example by means of a provision. How would the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union agrees with the proposals to introduce a cumulation basis into the right of dismissal. There's been a lot of talk about that today. The underlying principle for judges remains that dismissal should be reasonable. This is an essential principle in my group's view. I would like to ask the Minister to comment on this: how exactly is this cumulation ground going to work? In the case of cumulation, the draft law provides for the possibility of granting an additional fee of up to 50%. I would like to have some further explanations from the Minister on this. Do the judges have sufficient room and have sufficient guidance in the law on this matter to calculate the amount of the additional transition fee? By the way, I also hear that the requirement of reasonableness applies to the i-ground. The question then is why the compensation should be higher on that land. Is the reasonableness of the i-ground inferior to that of other dismissal grounds? In short, I would also like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The law also proposes to abolish the increase in the structure of the transition fee for employment contracts lasting more than 10 years. Although this is an understandable measure to make it more attractive for employers to offer a permanent contract, it will have a significant impact on older workers in particular who are made redundant after a long period of employment, while it is difficult for older people to find a new job, as we regret to note. This underlines the importance of investing in sustainable employability and developing for a lifetime. That is why I would like to join my colleagues in the coalition's initiative to focus more on training, especially in SMEs. For example, this 48 million, which has already been mentioned more often, could be used in innovative ways to train staff or for public-private partnerships where SMEs would not easily take cash with themselves. Mr. Chairman. Much has been said in recent years about the introduction of a generic disaster regime for bad weather. In some sectors such a scheme is of great importance in order to guarantee workers' benefits in the event of unworkable weather. I am thinking, for example, of glass cleaners, roofers, construction, the agricultural sector. However, the current legislative proposal does not provide for such a scheme, while the sectoral collective funding of this bill is under pressure. The Christian Union considers it important that we now have a rapid emergency resolution and that funding is properly regulated. I have a motion in preparation on this point. Mr President, I shall conclude. I haven't mentioned the call forces, the transition fee from day one and the premium differentiation. The measures proposed by the law on these points can count on the agreement of my group. These are all measures which, in my opinion, contribute to a better balance on the labour market. All in all, a load of measures passes through here. I look forward to the Minister's answers to my questions, particularly my question about the overall picture of the labour market and the question of self-employed people, because we really cannot separate that from the legislative proposal before us. I am confident that the cabinet will soon come up with measures on this issue, and that this, together with the legislative proposal before us, will ensure a more future-proof and balanced labour market. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u214	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to and respect for the Minister and his officials for the comprehensive and careful answer of many questions and comments of the 50PLUS Group on this bill. 50PLUS fully supports the cabinet's intention to achieve a better balance between flex and fixed and between security for employees and the flexibility and opportunities needed to work and undertake. But we are far less satisfied with the approach adopted. First of all, why this timing for this bill? Why this bill now, when the Work and Security Act has not even been fully evaluated? 50PLUS has serious doubts about the positive effects of the measures in this legislative proposal as long as there is no solution at all to other important work files. Just think of the Law DBA, the Law deregulation assessment of employment relations.We were just talking about "zzzp'ers" which regulates the position of zzp'ers. And I call a Life Long Developing. We find it very unsatisfactory that possible effects and labour market effects of the law are hardly understated at all. Securities do not appear to be quantified in terms of more fixed contracts. How then is it that you send something to the Chamber without a proper labour market analysis being carried out in advance by the Central Planning Office? If you use this law to repair holes in the leaky roof of the labour market but not the biggest gaping hole closed, the escape route to cheapzzp-work, then you don't keep it dry and then the imbalance remains. It's hard to talk about thezzp'er. There are people who are generously rewarded for providing scarce labour, but our concerns are mainly with thezzp'ers as a form of tax generously sponsored, cheap and relatively unprotected labour. After all, they do not have to pay tax and AOW premium up to €25,000. Here the government itself has a very great responsibility. Without a compulsory pension, without a collective insurance for disability as a first step, the company will remain the inviting escape route to cheap labour. Does the Minister see this and what is he going to do about it? Looking over the bill, 50PLUS concludes that the imbalance is not substantially reduced. Advanced flex is not thoroughly addressed and flex workers are not effectively better protected. Cost competition between fixed and flex is not fundamentally addressed. The fixed contract is essentially made more uncertain. The employer appears on points to be the winner of this law and the employee loses. Mr. Chairman. This law does not contain any targeted measures for older people on the labour market, whereas their position is the most vulnerable. On the contrary, their position is, on balance, getting worse by this law. I don't understand! Again it is proven that the elderly have nothing, but nothing, to expect from this cabinet. Previously there was at least a financial barrier to getting rid of older workers too easily, now it becomes a lot cheaper and also easier to get rid of older workers. 50PLUS really sees it as a misconception of the position of the older worker in the labour market. The compensation through the canton judge's formula or the transition fee could be used to compensate slightly the pension gap that the employee incurs in the event of dismissal up to the age of AOW, but it is clear that this minister is unaware of this. 50PLUS shares the highly critical summary opinion of the Council of State that even when this bill was introduced, all added up, too large differences persist between the different categories of workers. The problem approach is mainly labour law and not sufficiently broad to bring balance to the labour market. The Council of State rightly points out the need for a more fundamental approach to the labour market, social security and taxation in cohesion. 50PLUS is convinced that only one solution to the imbalance in the labour market will ultimately work. A uniform regime should be established for all workers for whom the legislator defines a hard minimum level of protection. Professor Ton Wilthagen, professor of the labour market, calls that basis of protection aptly the "Dutch Acceptable Peil." Stop breaking up social security, but go for this. I would like to hear a comment from the Minister on this. Is he also going for a Dutch Acceptable Peil? As long as that lower limit, that collateral base, is missing, the Council of State will point out that there will be a risk that workers with a weak position will be forced into the form of work which is cheapest for the employer. According to 50PLUS, this risk will remain in balance even after the introduction of the Labour Market Act. Mr. Chairman. A chain of two years of temporary contracts finds 50PLUS long enough. It is now proposed to make it three years, to promote permanent jobs. This means even longer job insecurity and even less security of existence. We consider the justification of this measure to be weak. The measure appears to be mainly based on signals and assumptions. The logic of this measure escapes us completely. The Work and Security Act, which has not even been evaluated, wanted to promote certain contracts by shortening the chain of temporary contracts, and now the Cabinet wants to extend that chain. The 50PLUS Group is aware of Mr Van Kent's amendment to item No. 12, the purpose of which is to leave the chain determination unchanged. We will certainly support that. But we wonder whether this minister would not have wanted to take a step towards greater security for flex workers. Why is it not established in the case of a vacancy whether this is structural work? That can be determined in advance, can't it? This may also be established in consultation with the works council. After a year's contract, you'd still have enough information to determine if someone's fit for the job. After that year, it could turn into a permanent contract, right? Can the Minister state whether he is in favour of this and whether he would like to pursue this? Mr. Chairman. The position of call forces is weak. Only 35% of them are financially independent. The risk of poverty, the risk of becoming structurally part of the working poor group, is high. We believe that the measures proposed by the cabinet are too high in terms of symbolic legislation. How much extra security does it offer, for example, at least four days in advance calls? It's an improvement, but those four days could just be the new standard. That means there's little extra protection. Mr Van Kent has the amendment to item No. 13 submitted in order to extend the time limit to 14 days. That seems to us to be very good in itself, but to what extent is that still flexible? Our proposal is to keep seven days. The minister says he's focused on promoting permanent work. 50PLUS believes that in the case of work of a structural nature after 12 months, you should automatically convert the call work into a contract. The amended amendment tabled by Mr van Kent to point No. 40 wants to do that after three months. In itself, we consider that to be a sympathetic amendment. However, we opt for the twelve-month period, because it is obvious that the work is of a structural nature rather than of a very temporary nature. After 12 months, we do not believe that an offer should be made, as in the present legislative proposal, but that the switch should be made automatically to a contract of the average number of hours worked in the 12 months preceding. Why didn't the Minister put this in the law? Because that would strengthen the position of the call forces, wouldn't it? The amended amendment to Part No. 39 is necessary because, by definition, the call force has a vulnerable and poorly protected position and is highly dependent. Are they actually going to invoke or enforce their rights? There is always a risk that the employee will not be called up. Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members have already mentioned the issue of payrolls. 50PLUS agrees that the Cabinet wishes to extend the terms of employment that apply to the employee who is directly employed by the client to the payroll employee. But why does a very separate labour law construct come into the law? The cabinet nevertheless takes risks by legally defining the payroll regime, no matter what the employers, however you look at it, are a relatively unfavorable construction. Doesn't the law that the cabinet choose make it unnecessarily complicated and therefore more vulnerable? The written procedure shows how incredibly difficult it is to make a clear separation between payroll and temporary work. 50PLUS believes that payrolls should be better excluded from this law and that the law should only allow employers to take care of their employer through a payroll administration office. 50PLUS will certainly support Mr Van Kent's amendment, which, in any case, has brought the pension premium into line. But we do not see the added value of payroll constructions and therefore propose not to legitimize them legally. Hence our amendment. Mr. Chairman. I come to the issue of 50PLUS, which is perhaps the most important problem in this law, namely the proposals on the right of dismissal. These are downright bad, especially for older workers. That's indigestible to us. There is no convincing evidence that this relaxation of the right of dismissal has previously offered a permanent contract. We do not believe that. With Mr Smeulders, therefore, we would prefer to see the right of dismissal unchanged. We shall therefore support his amendment. The introduction of the cumulation ground means that workers can be dismissed more easily than under current law. 50PLUS rejects this, not least with a view to protecting older workers. That is why we will support Mr Van Kent's amendment not to introduce the cumulation ground. In our view, the possibility of increasing the transition fee for dismissal grounds is only a tissue for bleeding. Juridisation is in the lurch and we expect fewer dismissal cases to be dealt with with with a settlement agreement. There is a good chance that the cumulation ground will become the new standard for dismissal, or that it will always be applied in the alternative. All this while the aim of the Work and Security Act was to make the right of dismissal clearer and more predictable. This law, I repeat, has not even been evaluated. Mr. Chairman. Why should dissolution on the basis of one full dismissal ground be more expensive than on the basis of the other full dismissal ground? Colleagues have already asked. It doesn't make any sense. Isn't full-time? In the proposed possible compensation on top of the transition compensation in the event of dismissal on the basis of the cumulation ground, we have implicit recognition that this ground is less convincing, or at least less dignified, grounds of dismissal. There seems to be a case of introducing a less caliber dismissal ground. We consider this, in summary, to be a legally difficult and certainly ill-defended reduction of the right of dismissal to older workers. The maximation of the possible surcharge on top of the transition fee in the case of dismissal, the i-ground, finds 50PLUS too limited. Mr Van Kent proposes in his amendment to item No. 17 for, the upper limit should be completely dropped. We think this is very good in itself, but in the interests of legal certainty, we propose to set the additional redundancy compensation at 100%, because we fear that, if you do not set a ceiling, however sympathetic, this will not be acceptable. That's why we're using the doubler. At the round table on this bill, legal experts asked for more room to allow unreasonable consideration to be given to the level of the transition fee. They gave examples of people who were dismissed at an older age, which was very painful. We understand very well that they need it, and we have every confidence in it. But I have a question for the Minister, and I would very much like to be given a clear commitment from him in the first term. Do we understand that Article 671b (c) on the remuneration of fairness, which takes account of the culpability of the employer, can still be applied? And that there is also room for a higher fee, in addition to the transition fee? But isn't this the time to delete the word "serious" in "serious culpability"? In my opinion, the people who sat with us at the round table, the lawyers and the judges, said they didn't have room. How is it that they do not see space and yet it is said: yes, but with Article 671b in hand that space is there? I would very much like the Minister to give us a commitment that we can have an evaluation after three years. Is it working and is there enough room for our judiciary to give room in that too, so that people who are really being duped get a higher remuneration? Mr. Chairman. I told you, the transition fee sec is going to hit older people hard and is therefore indigestible. In itself, we think it is a fantastic thing for workers to have one right to transition compensation from day one, but we think it is totally unacceptable and not in proportion to the much greater reduction in redundancy compensation for employees who are employed for more than ten years. Mr Van Kent has already given this example. An employee with a gross monthly salary of €2750, 58 years old and dismissed after 40 years of employment would receive more than a ton, according to the old canton court formula, €108.000. Since the WWZ this has been reduced to €50,000 and after the introduction of this law this will be €36,000. That's a two-thirds cut. That is an invitation to say goodbye to older workers more quickly, and as far as we are concerned, that is indigestible. We mentioned it earlier: this compensation is necessary to repair the pension gap created by the dismissal or to bridge the fall in income. The simple thought of this minister that we are getting back to work quickly turns out to be too often an illusion for 50-plussers. Now employers can easily transfer burdens to society. We therefore support Mr Van Kent's amendment to fully maintain the increased structure of the transition fee for employment for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u216	I think you've been finishing up, or am I mistaken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u217	No, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u218	You have three minutes left. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u219	I was assuming for a moment that the coalition had gone home, but Mr Wiersma is just coming back. Because if she was, we could have done business together. But perhaps it can be done, because Mrs Van Brenn is right to make a point of saying that judges should give us more room. Mrs Van Brenk is putting the double for that, but we have an amendment to just let it go and see if the judge can decide for himself. How does Mrs. Van Brenk look at letting go of that maximation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u220	I told you, we like that. We will certainly support that, but unfortunately we are counting on it not to add up to a majority in this Chamber. That is why we have tried to bring it up 50%. You still have a maximum, and I hope that will make it a little more understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u221	We are indeed looking for room with the coalition. Another interesting point that Mrs Van Brenk made is, say, that mouse hole from the previous law. Maybe we can enlarge that a little bit. I would like to answer her question to the Minister as to whether it offers a perspective, especially for those older workers who may be on the streets with too little money to sustain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u222	I am pleased that several colleagues are looking and I am also pleased that it is recognised that older people are really affected by this legislation. So I also hope that the Minister will give a good and adequate answer to that in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u223	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u224	Mr. Chairman. The possibility to deduct additional training costs from the transition fee does not consider 50PLUS to be a good measure. This inevitably creates tension between, on the one hand, training which is primarily in the interests of the company, training which is in the interests of the workers and training which is aimed at sustainable use, and, on the other hand, labour mobility. We also point out that collective agreements already contain agreements on personal development budgets and other training budgets. And often wages have already been handed in for that. Can the Minister explain the proposed extension? Mr. Chairman. The reasons for extending the probationary period to five months have already been mentioned. We are not in a position to do that either, and I am glad that several colleagues have said the same. I would like to hear what the Minister has to say about this, but we are still assuming that the Minister has only put up this article in order to give it back generously later as change. It does not serve any purpose. Mr. Chairman. The final issue is the new system of premiums, where a high WW premium is levied on flexible contracts and a lower WW premium on fixed contracts. This measure is in line with the objective of making flexible work more expensive and of reducing the cost of permanent work. 50PLUS sees this system as a first, limited, yet important step. However, we believe that regular care services such as accessibility and sleep should not be affected. We have also read Cedris' comments. Several colleagues have already referred to this. And we would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to solve this problem. As far as we are concerned, more is needed. There is a larger and much wider price difference between flexible forces and fixed forces than only the costs of the WW. According to the CBS, the difference is 35%; the proposed difference of 5% in the premium is therefore only a small fraction. We therefore have doubts as to whether this incentive will be effective. We understand that there will be a general measure of governance to clarify when there should be a high or a low WW premium. I'd like a thorough explanation. How does this come about? Who is or is involved in this and does the Chamber still have any influence on this? Mr. Chairman. To sum up, the Labour Market Act in balance reduces the imbalance in the labour market in some respects, but increases it in others. On balance, measures do not work well for employees, and certainly not for older workers. Old is wrong in this cabinet. I have said it before: this cabinet gives elderly people a financial kick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Actually, I'd like to suspend for an hour before dinner break. After that, the Minister will answer. I have not limited the number of interruptions to a maximum, but there are about a hundred questions to each other, on top of the questions to the Minister. So many questions... We're really gonna do that in a different way. I give all the space for a debate, but asking each other a hundred questions, which also gives the ruler every chance of getting away with it. So I'd be asking limited and targeted questions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u226	We continue with the Labour Market Act in balance. We had arrived at the Prime Minister's first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the questions asked. I'm gonna go deal with a few blocks. Before we begin, I'd like to go over the blocks with you. I'll start with a general introduction. Then comes the block flex, which includes the chain determination, the call and the payroll. The third block is about dismissal, including cumulation, probation and transition fee. The fourth block is about the premium differentiation. I will also take Mr Stoffer's amendment with me. All the other amendments are simply interwoven through the text into all the blocks where they are relevant. So I shall begin with my general introduction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u228	Before you start, I'd like to address the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u229	Yes, indeed, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u230	Because the first deadline has gotten completely out of hand with the interruptions. We remembered Dick Dolman today. I also said something in my speech about the fact that he called off the meeting at 11 p.m. In his mind, I want to act today. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the speedy implementation of the Labour Market Bill in balance, a crucial step towards a strong, well-functioning labour market. In my introduction, I would like to consider why this step is so important, but also why the follow-up and parallel steps are equally important. Many of the spokesmen have asked for this. Since it's National Poem Day today, I'd also like to start with a poem: Hand in hand, comrades, It's not words, it's deeds. Yeah, yeah. For Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg in particular, I would like to point out that on 6 February, 6-2, ticket sales start for Feyenoord-Ajax for the cup. I don't know if there are any more Ajacians here. But I had an excellent weekend! Mr. Chairman. The labour market requires complex adjustments. You guessed it: not words but deeds. The labour market is in good shape, unemployment is low, but underlyingly the current design of the labour market for employers and for employees is at odds. Employers are now too often reluctant to employ employees on a permanent basis because of the costs and risks involved. They cannot always rely on being able to fire an employee if necessary, paying a substantial remuneration in the event of a permanent employee's dismissal. For workers, labour market opportunities are unevenly distributed: insiders-outsiders, as Mr Heerma put it. There is a group of permanent workers with relatively high levels of protection and a growing group of flex workers with job and income uncertainty. Think of temporary workers who do not receive a transition fee at the time of termination of their contract, or call workers who have to remain unnecessarily available for work. I am committed to a labour market that offers security and opportunities to everyone. When employers and employees failed to reach an agreement on a well-functioning labour market together during the 2017 formation, in summer 2017, the coalition made ambitious commitments to reform that labour market. That is also my answer to the questions put by Mr Kuzu and Mr Bart van Kent when it comes to the trade unions and employers. Of course, that was tried for 14 months in the period before that summer of 2017, and the employers and employees just didn't get out and actually missed a chance. So it's up to politics to solve it. Mr Van Kent said: everyone is dissatisfied; would it be a good law? That quote was attributed to me. I have brought it a little more poetic, namely: employers are dissatisfied because they think we are too flexible and too little is happening on the fixed side, while it is the other way round for trade unions. They think that too little is happening on flex and probably too much. That is the quote I have made: I think it contains some balance, because both employers and employees, on both sides, are dissatisfied with the compromise. In December last year I presented you with an approach along five routes or tracks I don't know what it was anymore with different gears, solutions and collaborations. The cabinet has worked with urgency to develop the measures to move the labour market forward, because standstill was and is not an option. There are too many pressing challenges for this. Today we are talking about the first major legislative step: the Labour Market Act in balance. This legislative proposal addresses urgent issues of labour law as a matter of priority, and that is the first step towards a more balanced labour market. The second step is that I am working in parallel with measures concerning the obligations, for example, for employers for payment of wages in the event of illness and in the event of incapacity for work. Before Christmas, I presented an agreement with employers and employees on this, in order to put an end to this long discussion. We're working on that now. With that, I'd be happy to return to your room. In this context, Mr Kuzu asked how much of the 450 million premium reduction will be paid to small employers when it comes to the payment of wages in the event of illness, and whether the agreements I made were correct. What I find very positive is that, in the course of last year, employers actually indicated that they could not get away with the plans in the coalition agreement and actually asked for an alternative plan. At that time, my department, together with the Association of Insurance Companies, discussed with the SME Netherlands and VNO-NCW the question of how to solve this problem. That's where the chord came from before Christmas. It is really a practical approach to the problem of the transit payment in case of illness, which is particularly important for small employers. I am very proud that this has been achieved together with those parties. This 450 million comes down to more 90% of employers employing 25 people or less. Indeed, the vast majority of the premium discount comes down to those smaller employers. Mr Stoffer of the SGP has asked me in this context why it is so difficult to say goodbye to that excessive deficit, which was his word'sick pay'. The payment obligation and the reintegration obligation resulting from the Port Guard Improvement Act have led to a significantly lower inflow into long-term disability schemes. Of course, we had a real problem in the Netherlands with the WAO. Since that law came, we can see that the influx has gone down sharply and that a lot of companies are investing more in reintegration and helping sick workers get back to work. That works very well. This also means that if these incentives become less, the influx into the WAO will also increase significantly. That is actually also part of the agreements in the government agreement, where we saw an undesirable leak to a higher influx into disability schemes. That is why I am so pleased that we have been able to find an alternative to this package that does justice to the concerns of the employers, but leaves fewer workers in the disease law or in the WIA benefit. In this context, the SGP also asked if I could do something about the pay-by-pay obligation for older unemployed people, in order to create more opportunities there. That can and, more importantly, has already been done. Employers who hire people from the WW who are 56 years of age or older may fall back on the so-called "no-riskpolis." In doing so, they do not run a risk with regard to the payment of wages when those people fail, because UWV compensates those employers for this. So for this particular problem there is a working solution. Many of your members have asked about thezzp-side. I think that's a fair question. The Council of State also warns about this in the further report and in its opinion. The cabinet is working hard to increase this clarity about the nature of the employment relationship, i.e. thezzp side, and to prevent false self-employment. Among others, Mr Bruins, Mr Heerma, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Smeulders asked for this, because they feared that there might be a waterbed effect. We need more time to develop this measure on thezzp. I sent a letter to your Chamber on 26 November on progress in that area. What we particularly run into is complicated legislation and regulation when it comes to better protection of the bottom of thezzp market. As you may know, the coalition agreement contains three coherent packages of measures: better protection at the bottom of thezzp market, countering bogus self-employment and more freedom for real entrepreneurs, the realzzp'ers, more at the top. Steps are already being taken to prevent false self-employment. We've already started that. Secretary of State Snel started enforcement against the obvious evildoers. 100 companies have been visited. In addition, both the preventive side and the coaching side of the Tax Administration come to the fore. We have also clarified the authority criterion on 1 January. The manual has been distributed and has been tried to give more guidance to employers, clients, when it comes to the authority criterion, which was very unclear about it. We are also working on the web module on the question of who is a real zzp'er and who is a dummy self-employed person. The web module is expected to be ready by the end of 2019. All in all, we are working hard on the legislation. Mrs. Van Brenk asked for this. During the course of this year, legislation on thezzp should indeed be in your Chamber. The whole package of both the Labour Market Act in balance, as well as the law on pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness, as well as thezzp-measures is introduced as a whole in this cabinet period. All the above measures will be implemented in the years 2020 and 2021. This has been done very consciously, precisely to prevent the emergence of a waterbed effect. The Council of State's point on this is a valid point. Indeed, if you were to take one law first and only then implement thezzp measures, there could indeed be shifts. I also find that undesirable, and the cabinet finds that undesirable. That is why we see this as a coherent set of measures to balance that labour market. This law is called "Act on the Labour Market in Balance," but it should be seen in conjunction with thezzp measures and with the measures relating to the payment of wages in the event of illness. We're working hard on this. I expect the whole package to be launched on 1 January 2020, 1 July 2020 and 1 January 2021, so that the waterbed effect has become manageable during this cabinet period. In this context, Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the progress of the studies on the possibilities for minimum rates. He asked this because of a piece in this weekend's Trouw, by two economists of the ACM. It was not the ACM itself that gave an opinion, but it was two ACM advisors/economicians. They gave their opinion on the scope for agreements on soil rates forzzp'ers. I read the article with interest. There's been some tumult after that. I saw that on Twitter too, with Mr Canoy, one of the authors. On Trouw's website there is a corrected, more nuanced story following this article. For me, it is important how the ACM deals with minimum rates in collective agreements. I will consult with the ACM on this. So it is not so much about the broader discussion onzzp, but in particular about whether you can set minimum rates in collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u232	I see you want to ask a question, Mr Van Weyenberg, but I want the Minister to finish his introduction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u233	Yes, that's good, Mr President; that's always a big step. There is still no clarity as to the scope available for the government's measures to impose minimum public tariffs onzzp'ers. We are working hard on this, also in consultation with lawyers. And we are also looking at how that fits in with European laws and regulations. There's no political blockade there. I thought Mr Gijs van Dijk asked that, as one of the first speakers; that was already this morning. I feel broad support here in the Chamber for better protection of the bottom of thezzp market. There is support for this in the coalition, but also in the opposition. So there is no political blockade, but it is only extremely complicated: legal, implementing, in terms of enforcement. We're working hard on that. There's a whole team of SZW, Finance and EZK on it. They work together to solve this problem. It is of course not a new problem; even in the previous period, after the introduction of the DBA Act, it is of course derailed and we have always been looking for a solution to this complex problem. Mrs Van Brenk asked a question about the Deliveroo statement. I am working on a letter to the Chamber in which I will go into it, and in which I will specifically answer the questions. For the sake of clarity, I refer to that letter. In addition to the Labour Market Balance Act, thezzp and the pay-through in case of illness, there is a third step. Mr Smeulders, in particular, pointed that out, but also Mr Heerma and Mrs Van Brenk. We all note that in the coming years the labour market is going to change fundamentally, or perhaps it is already in the process. Think of platformization, digitisation and other forms of work. It may indeed mean that I am convinced that, in the longer term, we will have to make greater, but also more fundamental, adjustments to our system of taxation, social security and labour law, in addition to the steps we are taking now. Those adjustments may be necessary to meet these new challenges. That is why we have appointed the Borstlap Committee, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. In November, it should issue an opinion on the link between the regulation of work, social security and taxation. In reply to Mrs Van Brenk's question, I can say that the committee has also been asked to look at the scope of social security. Can it become contract independent entirely or on parts? This is also in line with Mr Smeulder's question last week, in another debate, on universal social security, or with Mr Wilthagen's new acceptable level. Those are indeed thoughts that appear more often in this analysis. However, I should like to warn you that it has very serious consequences for implementation if you do a very fundamental reform of the labour market, social security and taxation. We have now set up our entire system in such a way that the employer, as it were, collects the tax, collects the payroll tax and pays the contributions through the payroll return chain. If you want to do that more broadly to all workers, so alsozzp'ers, then that requires quite a bit of the Tax Administration and the UWV. So there are really complicated challenges for the coming years. However, I am not going to wait for that advice, because I think that the problems that lie ahead are really urgent. We have to deal with them now. That is why I am working so hard to work this out and to submit it to your Chamber through legislation. Then there's this law. A little bird-flying along the goal of the law. Together, the measures in the SAB aim to improve the balance between fixed and flexible contracts. I therefore consider the title appropriate. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 41 by Mr Kuzu. The labour market is currently out of balance and we need to balance it with a coherent package of measures. I thought your amendment was creative, but unfortunately I have to advise against it. The use of flexible contracts remains possible if the work so requires and if it meets the needs of employers and workers, because labour market flexibility is important. That is what I am saying to Mr Wiersma. He explicitly asked for it. I agree with him: there is a need for flexible work, including in the Dutch labour market. For example, in order to provide space where it is necessary to resolve bottlenecks, this legislative proposal extends the chain clause. I'm about to go into more detail about that. However, the choice of a flexible contract should not mainly be driven by cost advantages. We are, of course, doing something about this bill by reducing the differences in costs between contract forms and also making the fixed contract more attractive. That is why there are proposals in the law such as the introduction of the cumulation ground. A lower WW premium makes entering into a fixed contract more attractive. And the structure of the transition fee is more balanced by building up from day one, but continuing to build evenly throughout the period. I will come back to this in more detail later on, but this is a matter of fact. To mitigate the negative effects of flexible contracts for workers, I take measures to better protect vulnerable groups of flex workers. Callers are better protected and payroll workers are entitled to the same working conditions as regular workers. This whole range of measures, both on the fixed side and on the flexible side, will improve the balance sheet and make the choice of a contract form less dependent on a difference in costs and risks, and more consistent with the nature of the work. That is an answer to Mr Van Kent's question as to why this bill is not just about the flexible side. It is precisely a simultaneous movement of fixed and flex. I'm not just saying that. That is also what big think-tank bodies such as the CPB, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD and the European Commission say. They all point to the large difference between fixed and flexible contracts in the Netherlands and point out that it is really a focus in the Netherlands to reduce these differences and to bring the forms of contracts closer together. So it's in a simultaneous movement. Firstly, negative effects of specific forms of flexible work should be limited or priced. Secondly, it must become more attractive and less risky for employers to offer their staff a permanent contract. It is also necessary to put both movements together. We're not gonna fix that balance with just one side of the room. Mr Smeulders and Mrs Van Brenn ask me for a labour market analysis of the effects of the legislative proposal and whether the proposals will actually lead to more fixed contracts. The VVD and PVV also asked about the expected effects of the WAB. Roughly speaking, the measures in the SAB together reduce the differences in costs and risks between fixed and flexible contracts, making it relatively more attractive to enter into a fixed contract compared to the current situation. The coalition agreement has been passed on by the CPB. It also looked at the labour market effects of the measures in general. The CPB indicates that differences between fixed and flex are reduced by those measures in the government agreement, e.g. the transition fee measure but also the premium differentiation in the WW. We are talking about roughly 7,5% cost differences which are narrowing compared to the current situation: 5% because of the premium differentiation and 2.5% because of the transition fee. This simply reduces the differences. Let's see... For its labour market analyses, the CPB only provides a qualitative explanation of the effect on fixed versus flex; you can't put a figure on it. It is a qualitative explanation, which is also reflected in the publication of Kansrijk labour market policy. Several measures have been scored for this type of impact. It is not possible to give a quantitative effect, because it has to do not only with costs but also with standards, with how the labour market works. This quantitative analysis is not available, but with the publication of Kansrijk labour market policy, you have a qualitative estimate that the differences are actually narrowing and that this will bring the permanent job closer. An additional analysis therefore adds little, there would also be little news. Moreover, it would lead to delays, which would be undesirable, given the urgency of resolving the bottlenecks in the labour market. The last question in my introduction. Mrs Van Brenk asked why the cabinet is not waiting for the evaluation of the Work and Security Act. Signals from society showed that the system introduced by the WWZ has not yet succeeded sufficiently in supporting employers and employees in establishing an employment relationship that suits their needs and the nature of the work. That is why, in anticipation of the review, the review in 2020 will of course continue; we have recently sent a monitor to your Chamber with the steps that have been taken yet decided to take measures to reduce the differences between fixed and flex in order to alleviate the experienced bottlenecks in the labour market. After all, we cannot wait for that to happen. This was my general introduction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u234	A quick question. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u235	The Minister states that he will consult with the Authority on Consumer & Market about the self-employed and that interview. He spoke explicitly about the extent to which a collective agreement would allow you to deal with the rates, but my question was about making it possible for groups of self-employed to be more powerless. I would like to ask him to take that point too and, for example, to look at the following as a current example. Until 2004, the independent photographers had, I understand, a sort of tariff list. It is prohibited by the competition authority at the time. But with a small number of those who have a dominant position in relation to such a group of self-employed people, could that sort of thing be a way of restoring balance in a mutually negotiated relationship? Does the Minister want to take these things with him? We really need to do something about the negotiating power of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u236	I'm taking this question with me in a conversation with the ACM. There's a lot to say about it, but I'm not gonna do that tonight, because that's not the point. But I'm taking it with me in a conversation with the ACM. It is a valid point, as is the FNV KIEM judgment; it is also a discussion at the European Court of Justice. I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u237	The minister just said that the evaluation is coming, but we're going to take steps now. In my view, Mr Smeulders has just indicated that the round table with judges and lawyers has really said: we do not see 90% of all dismissal cases, because that is what we are dealing with in a settlement agreement. Now it looks like we're just going one punch in the other direction. If the minister has checked things and talked to people, are these the signals that have come to the ministry? Does he take these things for granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u238	Sorry, I don't understand the last question. What does Mrs. Van Brenk mean by "for good"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u239	Does the Minister accept that more cases will be brought before the courts and that everything that was previously arranged between them will be brought back to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u240	I'm sorry, I have to give you a comprehensive answer. We found in the introduction of the Law work and certainty that there were bottlenecks in the judges. In the case of some canton judges, a certain percentage of the cases was not dissolved, i.e. tens of percent of the cases were not dissolved because the reasonable grounds for dismissal of the Work and Security Act were not met. This indeed led to a new practice of the fixing agreement, but also to a higher percentage of cases that were not dissolved, in which employers and employees had to go through with each other, while there was malfunctioning, or perhaps also distorted industrial relations. This has been said at the hearing you held as a Chamber with the experts, and the Council of State and the Court of Justice have also made statements about it. They all say at the heart of the matter: the cumulation ground that is added is a sensible measure to give a little more room for the judge to dissolve. Indeed, that brings about a new situation and thus new case law. I have to agree with Mrs Van Brenn. This case-law must be crystallised in a new practice, on which it can also be based, allowing settlement to take place outside the courtroom. But you can see that experts across a broad line are positive about the addition of the cumulation ground. You can see that from all the positive comments on this, apart from the comments on the level of remuneration and the legal techniques on the basis of which it should be, which the Council of State has also commented on. There is a need for this cumulation ground, because in practice there is no solution. It's too strict right now. But you are right that it is a new situation, so after the introduction it will have to crystallize into new case law. That is why I am committed to these fixed percentages. I will come to that in a moment when the cumulation clause is in place. I am committed to making that predictable, including for practice outside the courtroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u241	One last point. The Minister says that people are positive about this accumulation, but they were not positive about the limit indicated by the Minister. They said, "Give us freedom now, so that we can also consider fairness and fairness." The suggestion raised by the fixed percentage is that there is no confidence that the case law is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u242	I have received several comments and criticisms from the experts. There are people who have indeed said: don't put a cap on it; that gives me more freedom of movement as a canton judge. There are also lawyers who have said: why is an additional fee really necessary; it is a reasonable basis? Mr Stoffer asked for this. I shall come back to that in a moment when we are dealing with the discharge part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u243	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u244	But I'll start with the block on flexible work first. As I indicated in the introduction, this proposal is intended to prevent the choice of a flexible contract from being determined by differences in costs and risks between contracts. We have therefore put forward proposals to limit and price the negative effects of flexible contracts, so that flexible work can be used even if the nature of the work so requires and not mainly because it offers a cost advantage. Mr Van Kent also noted the link between flex and low wages. His point was particularly about the labour income ratio and the flexibilisation. I understand that, given all the publications of the last year of DNB and the economic offices of banks, but it is not so unambiguous. This is also apparent from the latest investigations. On the one hand, in international literature, the declining bargaining power of labour is presented as an explanation for the decline in the labour income ratio. It is often said that this may have to do with flexibilisation. DNB also said that a year or two ago. At the same time, there are arguments that point the other way, because the latest figures on the labour income ratio, from the CPB's draftsman for 2019, actually show that the labour income ratio is back, and has actually barely fallen. They have also carried out a study on wages, in which they focus on productivity, which is lagging behind, which may explain the slackening of wages. So it's not unambiguous. It's still a search. Intuitively, I think there'll be a point in it, but there's no hard evidence yet. Apart from this discussion, the cabinet has a key role to play in finding a new balance on the labour market and in adjusting the negative effects of flexible contracts. They have to stay possible. In the government's view, they are necessary to ensure that employers can respond to these changing circumstances. Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with the chain assessment first. This legislative proposal contains three changes to the chain definition. Firstly, the period during which a contract is transferred from two years to three years for an indefinite period after successive temporary contracts. In addition, in the case of recurrent temporary work of up to nine months a year, the period between chains is reduced: from six to three months. Finally, temporary substitute workers in primary and special education are excluded from the chain definition if they replace a sick teacher. Of course, these measures are not intended to lead to a new carousel of temporary contracts in which workers can linger. But in order to reduce that risk, the cabinet is simultaneously taking measures to make fixed contracts more attractive. So it is in balance again and you should also see the scissor movement. Due to the premium differentiation in the WW and the introduction of a transition fee from day one, it is expected that it will be more expensive and therefore that employers will not keep people in a temporary contract unnecessarily long. That's less attractive because those costs are getting higher. Mr...not Van Kent, but Mr. Van Dijk of the PvdA... Mr Van Kent is standing by at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u245	Here too, Mr Van Kent, the Minister will finish this subject. Then you will be the first to have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u246	Mr Van Dijk asked what the employer and the employee have to do to extend the maximum period of the chain determination. Mr Van Kent also asked how extending the chain clause would lead to less uncertain contracts. Mr Kuzu has also asked me why I am proposing this measure. The choice of extending the deadline from two to three years is the result of an overall package: the search for a balance between the interests of employers and employees. With regard to chain determination, bottlenecks are addressed to enable employers to offer temporary contracts for a longer period of time if the nature of the work so requires. For example, fluctuations in production may make it necessary to maintain flexibility over a longer period of time. In addition, extending the maximum period may result in the employer choosing to keep the employee temporarily employed for longer than not continuing the employment relationship. We've seen that a lot in the past few years. This also has to do with the fact that I thought Mr Heerma mentioned this earlier in another debate with the combination of different measures. In the current legislation, it works that after two years you have to offer a fixed contract and at the same time after two years you start the transition fee. In fact, these are two reasons for an employer to say: I place the intersection at those two years. In the bill, we have separated that intersection from each other at different points. At the same time, we have reduced the differences between fixed and flex. That's why you see a balance between all these measures - there are 16 measures in the package - to prevent natural moments in the business club from being exchanged with the SME entrepreneurs, such as: you just have to fire people after two years, otherwise you will have the transition fee and a fixed contract, with all the risks involved; you just hire someone else. Individually, you can have a whole discussion about whether this is the measure that will have the greatest impact on the number of permanent jobs. No, I'm not convinced of that, but you have to see it in a total package in which you remove the hard boundaries. I am an economist; I always think in incentives and costs that it makes sense to offer fixed contracts. To Mr Van Kent, who had specifically asked for this measure, I would point out that the flow to permanent work is not the main part. It fits in with a comprehensive package of measures that make those hard borders softer. In this context, the extension of the maximum period of the supply chain provision is also part of the legislative proposal. That is why I would also advise against the amendment on item No. 12 by Mr Van Kent of the SP. Indeed, there is a delicate balance between all these different measures. Mrs Van Brenk asked me to think about alternatives for extending the chain determination, for example if there is no solution to a job vacancy for structural work in the framework of the works council giving a position. Honestly, I don't see how that should work in practice. Often the uncertainty that an employer or entrepreneur has, that he is not sure if he has that work in two years' time, is the reason why he uses a flexible contract. Something else is happening now: after two years the contract ends and then we hire someone again, because they have no transition fee and they can start again with the chain determination. That's what we're trying to prevent. That's why we have these legislative proposals. But what is structural work is very difficult to describe at its core. Nor do I consider it appropriate to allow the measure to apply only to certain functions or sectors, as has been suggested, since the signals on the experience of bottlenecks are not limited to a particular sector or to certain functions. Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA asked about the possibility of shortening the interval between temporary contracts. He asked the specific question whether the Minister could decide to do so without the opinion of the Labour Foundation. The answer is no, and I hope this reassures him. Let's talk about practice, as it should apply. If it is not possible in a particular sector to reach collective agreements on the interim period in the chain, the collective agreement parties may turn to the Foundation of Labour. The parties, employers, employees and the foundation will then have to agree to submit a request as a foundation to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. So indeed, if there is no agreement there, the foundation will not submit a request to the minister either. That also removes your fear. If the foundation asks, the minister may decide to do so, but he doesn't have to. The Minister does have a point of view. It's a possibility clause in the law. The condition is that employers and employees agree on this, otherwise it will not be on the Minister's office. In this context, Mr Van Dijk also asked about the exception for teachers in primary education. Why now for this sector? Many questions have been asked about this in the note on the report, and I have answered them in detail. Mr Van Dijk's reasoning was: employers and employees already have agreements, why should you legislate? In the note, I argued the difference between primary and secondary education. That is what it means to have education, especially primary education, is a special form of public intervention. There have been many debates about it in the previous period. It is also involved in the collective agreement for primary education at the request of the social partners, workers' and employers' organizations. They have asked me to declare the supply chain clause "because of illness" in force prior to the entry into force of the bill. Mr Van Weyenberg is right that it is not generic, but limited to illness, so really limited to the replacement pool for sick teachers. I have responded to this request from the social partners in the law. The evaluation of collective agreements for primary education also shows that this is a problem. That's an extra reason to do this. The same evaluation has shown that it has not been possible to solve the problems caused by other types of replacement, such as replacement pools. In practice, it is very difficult to control replacement and this leads to problems. In addition, research has shown that short-term replacement by many incursion forces is not found attractive, because they quickly reach the maximum number of chains and can no longer work at their favourite school. That is also an obstacle to that. That is why we have incorporated this provision into the law. The exception provides for a clear need. It is undesirable that the present exception should continue to be dependent on collective bargaining in the future. That has also gone wrong a few times in recent years, and that has led to a lot of tumult in the Chamber. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 24 by Mr Gijs van Dijk. Again, it's just limited to sick teachers. That is why I do not want to create the fear that teachers are now outlawed. That would really be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u247	That was the point...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u248	Chain determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u249	Then I'm going to see Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u250	The discussion about the AIQ and the influence of flex on it we would like to conduct another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u251	We'll do that at the pub sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u252	I certainly do not agree with your analysis, but my question is about that chain determination. In fact, I hear the Minister say that this facilitates employers who want to have people with a flex contract for a longer period of time, i.e. that this will lead to an increase in flex. I think you are putting your finger on the spot, because with the Work and Security Act, it was indeed a good thing to fire someone after two years. That's what we're going to change now: dismissal pay from day one and a higher WW premium. Let us therefore be confident that this will work and that the pain that caused the Law work and security will be resolved. Then that third year wouldn't be necessary at all, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u253	What I've been trying to argue is this. We can very much focus on the individual measure. In the balance sheet of cases, in the balance sheet of the sixteen measures included in the SAB, it was precisely to make some things more stringent, such as indeed a transition fee from day one and such as the premium differentiation, which makes flex contracts more expensive and makes some things more flexible to allow more opportunities to fit in with the nature of the business. That has been a conscious choice of balance. We can have a big debate on a separate measure, but I will always argue that it fits into a wider package. If I turn one button in there, then the structure will move again, also politically; that is what I say. That is why I am referring to my previous answer in my block about the chain determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u254	The phrase 'political too' is of course interesting, because Mr Van Weyenberg said: it was not in our programme. I would also like to know who came up with this measure. But I have a follow-up question. I would like to emphasise that consistency in this balance. Because the measure of the third year has everything to do with the cost advantage that was not covered by the Work and Security Act. "Cost disadvantage" I must say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u255	Yes, that's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u256	... if you look at that in the light of the increase in the WW premium and the dismissal allowance from day one. So precisely these measures are linked in the new law. If you see it in conjunction and have faith in the functioning of two important parts of the law, then that third part should not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u257	I also note that there has been a great deal of irritation here in recent years. It's become a habit to offer up to two temporary contracts and then fire them, otherwise you're stuck with them. I'm not gonna make any bigger differences, because there aren't any. I understand Mr Van Kent's argument. If you were to pull it all loose, you might come up with another end, but that is not possible because it is a package of measures that are related. Politics, too, I say. It is precisely the reaction in recent years that this measure does not work, and it only leads to people being fired earlier. It is one of the reasons why this was in the government agreement and is now included in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u258	That is precisely the connection I would like to emphasise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u259	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u260	Especially when you see this in conjunction, that third year is not necessary. If you make that third year possible, it's gonna be the new standard. Now it is a year and eleven months, but the employers who do have that extra money for it will soon give a two-year and eleven-month contract. So as far as these measures are concerned, the Minister contradicts himself in the law and does not see that coherence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u261	Let us take a completely different measure, namely the cumulation ground in the right of dismissal. It has everything to do with this subject, of course. The analysis is that employers are more likely to offer fixed contracts if we reduce the risks for employers in the dismissal legislation combined with smaller cost differences between fixed and flex due to the premium differentiation and the transition fee. So, hopefully, after one year, employers are going to offer a permanent contract. That's what I'm saying. But that will not be all employers, because some employers, such as start-ups, will not know for sure whether they will survive for the first two or three years. I believe that is what Mr Gijs van Dijk said during his interruption. These employers will want to keep a little more flexibility and they want flex contracts. I would merely like to give you an example of how all these measures are linked. That is why the law is not just called the Labour Market Act in balance, but there is also a balance in the law itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u262	Really rounding up, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u263	This is really there with the ears... I do not see that connection at all. Plus: an employer who is insecure can simply apply for dismissal on the basis of business conditions. There is therefore no need for this cumulation ground. So I don't see that argument either. Precisely that coherence, cost advantage versus the two-year term... that this would go wrong with the Work Security Act was exactly our analysis.. is now being solved. So I still don't see why that third year of uncertainty is necessary for all those employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u264	I have also heard Mr Van Kent say: I do not understand why the measures on the fixed side of this bill are necessary; I do not see that either. I have a different opinion on that. I can see that if we want to restore balance, we must make it more attractive for employers to return to permanent employment. Therefore, the cumulation principle and the transition fee measure are also included in this legislative proposal. That's a difference of opinion. I think you need a simultaneous movement. Mr. Van Kent says you only have to do something on the flexible side. I do not agree with that, and the cabinet has also made a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u265	Yeah, I'm just thinking about that connection. Maybe it's nice to make a comparison with the cohesion of Ajax last Sunday at Feyenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u266	The lack of coherence, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u267	The lack of coherence, indeed! But it's gonna be okay. But apart from that, I would like to comment on that education. I understand from the workers' side that there is no need at all to allow endless short raid jobs in the event of illness. That's where we've been pleading for three years. This is also regulated by collective agreement. I understand that employers have now changed their position, but I would like to correct that. So it is not for nothing that I come to the Minister with these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u268	Honestly, I don't know. I know that the social partners, i.e. employers and unions, who are involved in primary education, have made this request specifically for illness. But of course it also came from the evaluation of the primary education collective agreement, which was carried out last year. I'm saying that out of my head, so I'm gonna take a look at my backup. Oh, they don't know either. But I don't know these signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u269	It is also important, perhaps, in the second period, to check whether this is a sector-wide signal, or whether it is purely from the employers. I think that is important, because there are also different interests when you look at the last collective agreement process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u270	Here's what I remember. I have signed something else in that context. Mr Slob had collective bargaining at some point, precisely on this point. At that time, the social partners asked whether, in the run-up to this law, I wanted to sign an arrangement to make this possible. That wasn't six months ago. So at least then it was a joint request from the social partners. But then they knew this law was coming, too, so that was pre-emptive of this law. So it would really surprise me, because I myself signed that arrangement less than six months ago at the request of the collective agreement parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u271	But let me get this straight: that is a three-year ministerial arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u272	That is true, but the letter also states that, in anticipation of the Labour Market Act in which it would be structurally regulated, the parties asked for this to be settled in a temporary arrangement before its entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u273	A short question, Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u274	Yeah, short question. I had asked if the Minister could respond to the question as to why it could not be possible to obtain a permanent employment after an annual contract. The Minister makes it easier to resign. Then why would we need so many chains?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u275	That's what I've just argued extensively. I have just explained this in detail in the debate with Mr Van Kent. This is part of a comprehensive package of measures, where we are right in this period, with the Work and Security Act...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u276	Okay, then you don't have to repeat that. Isn't that right, Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u277	I'm gonna stay... Well, I just want to say that I don't think this is a good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u278	That's obvious!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u279	I disagree. Mr. Chairman. Then the second subject under the heading flex: improving the position of call forces. The cabinet feels it is undesirable that callers should be expected to remain permanently available, while they have no certainty about their income. That is why we want to improve the position of these call forces. First of all, we want to prevent calls from being unnecessarily made available for work. In addition, the cabinet wants them to be compensated if they have made themselves unnecessarily available for work because the employer has cancelled, let us just say. Therefore, the cabinet proposes as a measure that they cannot be obliged to come to work if they are called up within four days. That's one protection side. This also makes it possible for the call force to accept other work: he knows that if he is not called in within four days, he can work elsewhere to earn money. In the case of collective agreements, however, a shorter call period may be agreed. This can be used, for example, if the nature of the work, such as seasonal work in agriculture, so requires. In addition, a call force is compensated if an employer cancels within that period. The call force shall then be entitled to the pay for the times for which it was summoned. This avoids unnecessary mandatory availability of call forces and reduces the income insecurity of call forces. Secondly, the draft law proposes that an employer should, after 12 months, make an offer for a fixed size of work, i.e. the size of his work over the last 12 months. For example, if an employee has worked 16 hours a week on average in health care, the employer must also offer him a contract for 16 hours a week. As a result, people who are long-term on the basis of a call contract are offered a contract with more certainty. I also think it is important that call forces have a choice in this. Therefore, they can continue to work on the basis of a call contract. There are also people who find this very pleasant, who appreciate the flexibility and who want to stay in this situation, for example if they are students or value flexibility; Mr Stoffer talked about this in his first term. Last but not least, employees receive a much shorter notice period if they work on the basis of a zero-hour contract. This measure ensures that people who have a contract find more certainty, so that they have a fixed number of hours per week or a fixed wage per week and can also take that opportunity without being hindered by all kinds of notice periods. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Van Dijk asked if I was prepared to extend the four-day deadline. He also expressed the concern that call forces might not make use of the possibilities. Mr Van Weyenberg also hinted at this. Do they have enough in their shoes, do they have enough position to enforce that? Let me say first of all that it is not intended that these four days should be used as a standard term. I explained this earlier in the paper on the report. For both employer and employee it is in many cases good to get the roster around earlier; that is also the use in many situations. With the four-day deadline, the government has sought to strike a balance between the interests of the employer and those of the employee. We are not in favour of extending that deadline to 14 days, as Mr Van Kent did in the Amendment No. 13 has proposed, because such a long term gives too many limitations for an employer. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. It can be very difficult to plan two weeks ahead, for example because you have a company with very irregular working hours or production. Whether and how employees implement their rights ultimately depends on different factors. I recognise that for individual workers, I think Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Van Brenk said this could be really difficult. I think it is very good if people dare to take the step to bring them right. It is therefore also important that, according to this bill, the employer is obliged to take action; this does not have to come from the employee. This is about that measure that you need to get an offer after 12 months. So that is different from the amendment to item No. 40 by Mr Van Kent, who talks about a period of three months. The three-month period concerns the employee's right and after 12 months the employer must make an offer. This is now simply imposed by law once this law has entered into force. The workers can therefore enforce this. There are several safeguards in the bill, such as the indication on the pay slip that there is a call agreement and the fact that the employee is entitled to pay for his hours if the employer does not make an offer after 12 months. So that's an extra incentive, an extra stick behind the door for the employee. In addition, I will pay extra attention in the communication about this law to make this group aware of their rights and to point out that this has really been changed by this law. So I think that this bill really improves the position of call forces, with a big step forward. I do think that it should remain an offer from the employer and that it should not be automatically applied, as Mrs Van Brenk in her amendment to item No. 39 and Mr Van Kent in his amendment to item No. 40 proposals, because the employee must also have the freedom to continue to work as a call force if he finds it pleasant, such as a student who appreciates that flexibility. In addition, I believe that we should not impose mandatory rules on working patterns, as these two amendments do. There may be circumstances for the employer which lead, for example, to a change in the pattern of working time or to other work. It is also covered by good employeeship that an employee talks about this with his employer if he makes a reasonable bid to that employee or if he has serious business interests that require the employer to make adjustments. Of course, the employee is basically entitled to continue the existing working conditions, the stipulated work and the pattern of working time. This is covered by the legal principle of good employership. That is why I did not recommend these two amendments, those of Mr Van Kent and those of Mrs Van Brenk. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the payroll. That block is actually divided into different aspects of payroll. I shall come back to pensions separately after this because a lot of questions have been asked. The measures on pay-rolling are also part of the legislative package on the new labour market balance. The cabinet considers payrolling to be a legitimate and necessary tool to take care of businesses in their tasks. As an employer, the payroll company can carry out the various employers' tasks well, for example with regard to the payment of wages in the event of illness, reintegration and training. That is why I would also advise against Mrs Van Brenn's amendment on the total ban on payrolling. That's not the cabinet line. Moreover, I do understand the concerns expressed by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u280	What number does the amendment have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u281	That is the amendment to item No. 27. In the explanatory statement to the amendment, Mrs Van Brenk expressed concerns about the separation between formal and material employership and its impact on those concerned. That is why we have put forward two specific questions to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Borstlap Committee. One of these questions is whether an amendment to the definition of the temporary employment contract is desirable, including in the context of a separation between formal and material employership in payrolling. Mrs Van Brenk's concerns have therefore been heard and addressed in that committee. Payrolling is therefore, in itself, a legitimate instrument, but what the Cabinet considers undesirable is that this choice results in less good working conditions or less good legal status for the employee. Payrolling should not be used as a means to compete on working conditions. The differences in costs between own employees and payroll workers are undesirable, as this makes employers who do not use payroll unfairly suffer a competitive disadvantage. On the contrary, many companies and organisations want a level playing field, including in terms of costs. That is why, with the legislative proposal, I align the legal status and working conditions of payroll workers as much as possible with those of employees who are directly employed by the client. This is also in line with the initiative legislative proposal of SP, Labour Party and GroenLinks. Payroll forces are in a special position. They are recruited and selected by the client or another, and work exclusively for the client. Of course, this exclusive is not the same as, for example, temporary work. The employership is carried out by the payroll employer. Because that payroll employer does not have the so-called allocation function, the payroll workers deserve the same position as employees who are directly employed by the client. They are thus also entitled to the same conditions of employment, such as a thirteenth month. That is often a real difference in practice now. There can also be no more temp clause included in the contract. There can therefore no longer be an end to the employment relationship per day. An important point of attention is the opinion of the Council of State on previous legislative proposals, but also from the opinion of the Council of State on the SAB that it should be feasible for employers, clients and employees. Therefore, special arrangements have been made for collective funds and pension schemes, and the client is also made responsible for making the terms of employment known. Payroll workers working in a company or sector in which a pension scheme applies shall be entitled to an adequate pension scheme. In many cases, this will give them a much better pension. I shall come back to that explicitly in a moment. It counteracts unfair competition on working conditions. However, the proposal prevents the payroll employers from having the difficult task of joining many different pension schemes. That is a debate that also came through in the debate on the initiative law. It's still possible. Clients can be taken care of by payroll. As far as possible, a level playing field, the same working conditions and an adequate pension scheme will eliminate competition on working conditions. Mr Bruins has asked me to go into the definition of payroll in the legislative proposal once again. Is there any confusion between the definition of "transmitters" and the definition of "payroll workers"? This question has also been raised a number of times in the note on the basis of the report. The bill distinguishes between payrolling and broadcasting. This definition is based on the existing dismissal scheme and practice. Further clarification has been provided in the explanatory memorandum. I have already dealt with this in the paper on the report. The bill creates two clear regimes, which prevent payrolling from competing on terms of employment. In the case of regular broadcasting, however, this can make use of a more limited regime in terms of working conditions, the enlightened labour law regime and the temporary agency clause. The VVD has also expressed concerns about the definition and asked me how we are going to help the entrepreneur with the complexity of this law. I believe that with the definition and the indications in the explanatory memorandum................................................................................................ Employers themselves know what role they have played in the recruitment and selection of the workforce. In communication, extra attention will be paid to informing the clients. I would like to address the point made by Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins. Clients can therefore be helped to comply with the law, for example by means of a checklist for the requirements of the law regarding terms of employment which they must pass on to payroll companies. Small businesses can then continue to use payrolling with confidence if they need it. I also avoid the definition that the broadcasting sector is being affected. The government agreement also states that the broadcasting sector will not be affected by this measure, because there remains a real distinction between regular broadcasting and payrolling. If a temporary agency worker fulfils his or her assigned function with regard to the temporary agency worker, he or she shall not be affected by the legislative proposal. Then there's pensions. Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Kent, Mr Smeulders, but also Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg He asked how we are going to ensure that payrolling has truly equal working conditions. Pensions do indeed play an important role in this. They bring high costs for the employer. Mr Van Kent has tabled an amendment to make the pension contribution completely equal. That is the amendment to item No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mr. Van Kent, you couldn't wait, I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u283	I have failed to withdraw that amendment. It's a joint amendment. It has been submitted by the Labour Party and both GroenLinks and the SP have signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u284	What number are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u285	Item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u286	Item No. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u287	But has that been filed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u288	That was already filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u289	Oh, that was already filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u290	Is a new amended amendment being tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u291	It's been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u292	So that's what's been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u293	Okay. It could be that I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u294	For the sake of clarity, one amendment is withdrawn and another amendment is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u295	The amendment in part No. 15 shall be repealed. I've just been told it's part No. 32 or 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u296	I was also talking about piece No. 32. So there's confusion for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u297	The amendment in part No. 15 has been revoked. It is now a question of the amendment to item No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u298	It is therefore the amendment tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders in part No. 32. The cabinet also believes that the conditions for pensions should achieve the objective of preventing competition on working conditions. Therefore, there is also an adequate pension scheme in the law. It can be completed in two ways. First of all, it can be filled in by having the payroll employees take part in the pension scheme which the client applies to the comparable employees. Then it's the same arrangement. It's pretty simple. Secondly, a pension scheme can be concluded which meets the conditions to be laid down in AMvB. You haven't seen that AMvB yet, because we're still working it out. With these conditions, we leave employers and employees in the industry the room for their own interpretation of the pension scheme, but they are based on what is common in the Netherlands. They therefore aim to counter unfair competition. I understand the purpose of the amendment in respect of item No. 32, but make a critical comment on its feasibility, because it creates a huge administrative burden. A payroll company works for clients who apply different pension schemes. They must therefore also implement these different pension schemes in practice. They would then have to pay different premiums per client. The payroll company should therefore continuously monitor and monitor the development of these premiums. That is the administrative burden, which was also included in the original bill of the left-wing parties: the SP, the Labour Party and GroenLinks. The Council of State was critical of the feasibility of the administrative burden. We have thought about the question: how are we going to solve this? I am very much in favour of the proposal by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Heerma and Mr Bruins. This is based on preventing competition on working conditions at macro level. The improvement in pensions for payroll workers should be carried out in such a way that it is still feasible. A number of concrete elements mentioned by Mr Van Weyenberg are therefore indeed: no waiting period, a link with the average level of the macro premium seen in the Netherlands.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If the Chamber asks me to do so, I would like to take this into account in the elaboration of the AMvB, which I will put off for internet consultation in the very short term and which I would like to share with the House of Representatives. Think of this as an outstretched hand, namely that we all share the same goal: opposition and coalition. I would have liked to have accepted the amendment sincerely or given the "judgement chamber." But by defining it so strictly, a payroll company would have to implement all kinds of arrangements. In practice, this is unworkable. We have really tried to match the average cost level in the Netherlands. That's pretty high. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned almost 14%. This will therefore be the line used in the AMvB. I see that as a gesture to the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u299	"A sacrifice," I hear on this side. It's always appreciated. I think there is a misunderstanding when it comes to the initiative law. We have indeed made a round and we have received comments from the Council of State. I think there have also been questions asked by the VVD and more parties. The VVD actually had quite a good advice. He said: just take the amount of the pension premium and don't talk about where exactly it should be invested in. So we let that go. We have said that the level of the pension contribution is valid. That is, of course, a fact when you take the user pension scheme. The question is: if you take the average, that's option two of the Minister, what does it mean, for example, if you work in education, with relatively high pension levels? There's a lot of payroll going on right now. Will the costs be levelled? Because that is, in the end, the goal that we all pursue. We want to get rid of this competition at a cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u300	If a payroll company is only active in education, it is obvious that it is in line with the education system. The practice is that a payroll company operates for a lot of different sectors. In education, I do not think so, because it may be a specific market. But it is often about many different sectors and many different pension schemes. That is why we have also made the division in the law: to align with the pension scheme of the user if that is a homogeneous group, it is obvious that this happens... or to take the average as a kind of enforceable scheme for when you serve many sectors. The contribution level is relatively high, because you also include all public sectors and health care, where relatively high pension contributions are paid, in that average. You might not get it all one-on-one. There has once been a StiPP Plus scheme of 8%, for example. This really is a much higher remuneration, because I do share the objective of the initiative proposal, which is to reduce the difference in working conditions. But this is a lot more feasible, and I think that this is right to the critical comments of the Council of State on the feasibility of such a regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u301	The Council of State was somewhat critical...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u302	Dictum 6 was it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u303	... but it is a good thing that this goal is being pursued. I would ask the Minister to look into this in greater detail and also into possible bottlenecks in those sectors where it might occur. That doesn't have to be tonight, but these cost differences shouldn't get too big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u304	The AMvB will be in your room very soon. Let me make sure that this point is addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u305	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u306	Next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u307	Look, that's really fast!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u308	Right? Or am I promising something wrong now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u309	Mr. Van Kent, that's very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u310	This month. Sorry, this month!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u311	This month. Okay. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u312	Starting tomorrow. February, February!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u313	Yes. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u314	The day is still young; so it could still be. My question wasn't about speed, but about... We share the goal of being just in the debate with Van Weyenberg also the case that payroll should not be cheaper. If I may continue with Mr Gijs van Dijk's question: can we also get an overview of a few standard sectors at that AMvB? I call the government, the care, the education and a few others. I ask this because we can then see to what extent that average differs from that 14% from the rate that is customary in that sector. I simply ask that to ensure that it is not possible for a payroll company in the education sector to be able to offer teachers at a lower rate than those who are employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u315	At the request of Mr Van Kent, I will add a note of an annex to the note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u316	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u317	If these differences prove to be too great, will the Minister look at other avenues leading to Rome, a way of eliminating that cost difference and perhaps some other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u318	Shall we work one step at a time? The scheme is very clear: either in line with the scheme in the sector or the average. I understand your question to give a little insight into the spread in it, but the goal is the same. Let's strive for that. We will probably have another discussion about this shortly, for example at the AO Labour Market of, I think, mid-February. Payroll and education. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me to reflect on the training of payroll workers. Mr Van Kent has also tabled an amendment on this subject in respect of item No. 36. Mr Van Kent has been very active in this round with amendments! The payroll employer, like all employers, is of course bound by the obligation to provide adequate training for the employee. It is also arranged that if a payroll employer cannot participate in the funds, he should at least reserve an equal contribution. He shall pay this contribution to the payroll on request, but at least once a year. Then the payroll power can buy its own education. We are also doing this on the assumption that wage costs must be linked. Internal training, which is given to its own employees, and the training budgets already given to its staff, can be seen as a condition of employment. In doing so, Mr Van Kent's suggestion is already covered by the equal treatment clause, Article 8a of the WAADI, in the legislative proposal and does not lead to differences for the employee or a competitive advantage for the user. In addition, the amendment is undesirable. If one category of conditions of employment explicitly indicates that it is covered, it raises the question of other secondary conditions of employment, which you do not mention. This is undesirable for the law, because all the conditions of employment that apply to the user apply to the payroll power. You would then get the discussion: "This is explicitly mentioned. So this has to be. Other things have not been explicitly mentioned and they should not be mentioned." So it's settled, but making it so explicit I advise against it. That is why, unfortunately, I must also discourage this amendment, not because we have a difference of opinion, but because we consider it unwise to focus on one part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u319	I do not mind at all that this amendment is not recommended, because I welcome the Minister's reply. This is also part of the law. So in that sense, it's just clip-and-ready now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u320	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u321	That is why I would like to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u322	All conditions of employment apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u323	The Van Kent amendment (Doc. 36) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u324	No, I'm not. I'm still working on payroll and Cedris.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u325	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u326	I see that the Left opposition is now going to discuss whether it will support the bill after these great commitments! A number of parties, the Labour Party, D66, CDA and Christian Union, have called attention to Cedris' plea about payroll and labour restrictions. I understand the plea, but I think it's a dilemma, I say honestly. The starting point of this part of the law is a clear distinction between broadcasting and payrolls, and the aim is to increase worker security and prevent competition on working conditions in payrolling. Also, or perhaps correct, labour restrictions need continuity and security. They are also entitled to equal pay for equal work. So the present bill regulates that an exception can only be made if the temporary worker has fulfilled an active allocation function. For the record: that does not mean that any help or involvement of the UWV or the municipality leads to the application of the payroll regime. This was explained in the note following the report. As long as the temporary worker himself has been actively involved in the recruitment and selection of candidates and the recruitment of principals, and thus the employer has played an active allocation role, the temporary agency regime applies. But I fully understand the dilemma. I thought Mr Gijs van Dijk outlined it clearly in his first term. The payroll regime can be more expensive than the broadcasting regime, and that can be an obstacle for people to become active in the labour market. I understand the Chamberwide care. I have already sent a letter of amendment during the first term of your Chamber with a hook in it to arrange this. I need a little time to work that out in a good way and to check it out with municipalities and the employer service point, whether or not together with the UWV or SW companies, the social services companies. Secretary of State Van Ark also considers this to be an issue, because she also sees that this can be an obstacle for people with disabilities to get to work. So I sent a letter of amendment and that letter of amendment includes in the law the possibility of making an exception for the target group job appointment, sheltered work and the current WSW. The target group is therefore limited to that group and I believe that this is in line with Mr Gijs van Dijk's question. The exact form will later be determined by lower regulation. Then I'll come back to you. Since you've all shown an interest in this, I'll put it in your room as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u327	This is good to hear. It is good to do that very tightly, because it is really about these target groups and not about people, for example, from the assistance or possible status holders. Otherwise, this group will be expanded very quickly and that is absolutely not the intention, because then you will have to deal with the broadcasting sector again. So I would argue that we should really define that and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u328	Yeah, good. Mr Wiersma had a specific question on the Cedris point. He asked whether the exception would apply when the law entered into force on 1 January 2020, and he feared that uncertainty would persist for too long. If there is broad support for this, I am certainly prepared to do so, but I must first draw up the proposal and discuss it with your Chamber. That is a matter of urgency, because I agree with Mr Wiersma's point. However, it is important that when such an exception is made, the objectives of job security, the flow to regular work and the sustainable placement of a Posting Facility should not be overlooked. It will therefore be necessary to lay down further conditions, but we are going to work on them. The PvdA asked, also in the context of payroll and in response to Mr Heerma's question about contracting, whether I am prepared to take measures to increase contracting, because payrolling is made more unattractive and therefore a waterbed can be created when contracting. I sent a letter on 8 November following earlier questions from Mr Heerma on this point. I have gone into this in detail, including consultation with the social partners, on the assessment of the social partners of this phenomenon. Is that happening now, is that really growing and what are the potential problems? I also outlined in that letter the possibilities in the current law and also in the new proposal of the Labour Market Act in balance, in order to combat competition on working conditions. I therefore believe that there are sufficient measures to counter improper forms of contracting, for example, where there is actually broadcasting. In the same letter, I announced an exploration as to whether the current possibilities for non-compliance with the WAADI programme, which concerns intermediaries, the broadcasting sector, are sufficient and whether they could be improved. I have heard the concerns of your Chamber, specifically those of Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Heerma. We're on our way to reconnaissance. I don't want to anticipate that, but I'll keep a finger on the wrist. I can see the signals myself. So I announced that reconnaissance on 8 November. It is currently examining what possibilities there are and what parties, such as the social partners in the Labour Foundation, can be involved in this exploration. Both gentlemen, Heerma and Van Kent, have asked if I can report anything within two weeks. I'm afraid I can't, no more than what I'm reporting tonight. This reconnaissance is ongoing. I would like to inform the Chamber of the progress of the first quarter of this year, because I know that this is an issue for both of us. Mr Van Dijk asked what I am going to do about the position of workers with a zero-hour contract. He can read that in the bill, as the people with a zero-hour contract are covered by the call contracts. Therefore, all measures relating to calls also apply to the zero-hour contracts. That's what his care is addressed to me. D66 also asked about the risk of a flight to other structures, for example about developments in the broadcasting sector. Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg have also recently asked questions about this. I'm answering it now. I also understand Mr Van Weyenberg's concerns about the signs of improper use of the broadcasting regime. These signals have reached me, too. Once again, Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg, as well as Mr Jasper van Dijk, I think, have asked written questions about this, in particular about the understanding of revolving door constrictions in which borrowers use temporary agency workers for structural work and in which temporary agency workers try to keep temporary workers in the first phase of their contract, in phase A of the temporary agency contract holder. I, too, would like to have more insight into this, because those signals have reached me. This was not so much about pensions as Mr Van Weyenberg's and Mr Heerma's questions were about the 26 weeks waiting period for pensions, but more about the 78 weeks phase A, phase B in the temporary employment sector. The questions are ready and are coming your way very quickly, along with the promised letter on progress on UWV fraud. I expect a few more questions about that in the second term. That was the block of flex. Then I'm going to the block discharge. A lot of questions have been asked about this, in particular about cumulation, about the transition fee and also about the probationary period, so I will also go into that. I'll start with the cumulation ground. Why this measure? Many of the Members of Parliament have asked for this and have also asked for further support. The cabinet considers it important to make the fixed contract more attractive. Employers are now too reluctant to offer employees a permanent contract, which means that workers are at work too often and for too long on the basis of a flexible contract. This is partly because the existing rules on dismissal are so strict. If the employer is confident that he can fire an employee when necessary, employers will be more willing to offer employees a permanent contract. Mr Smeulders asked what the profit was. Is that the profit, a fixed contract to remove those risks and thus facilitate access to a fixed contract, as well as the possibility of obtaining an additional remuneration? I do not want to talk about profit or loss, because the protection against dismissal will not be reduced. We're not gonna change anything about the land. It still has to be a reasonable ground for dismissal. And there's still the judge who checks on that reasonable ground. Existing research shows that since the introduction of the WWZ more dissolution requests have been rejected by the canton court. That is what I said to Mrs Van Brenk in an interrupting debate at the introduction. A dismissed ground must be fully satisfied if you want a reasonable basis for dismissal and before it also leads to dissolution. That is the practice of the Work and Security Act. In the case of incompleteness, it is simply not possible to dissolve. This is now a problem in practice, because if you are not able to put forward a fully reasonable grounds for dismissal, there will be no dissolution. Thus, the employer and the employee are in the situation that there is indeed a distorted employment relationship, for example, but is not dissolved by the canton court. The fact that this is a bottleneck is also confirmed by the input into the internet consultation. The Council of State's input on this point was also positive. The Court of Justice also stated in its opinion on the legislative proposal that the introduction of the cumulation ground would give the judge more room for manoeuvre and that the judge would also be expected to use this space. In practice, there are simply examples of situations where the court finds termination of the employment contract justified while one of the reasonable grounds for dismissal is not met. In the present system of dismissals, judges may not terminate the contract of employment, while the employer can no longer reasonably be asked to continue the contract of employment. In the present system, there can be insufficient tailor-made work done by the judge. The cumulation soil provides a solution for this. The circumstances arising from two or more grounds of dismissal, such as the dysfunction of the employee and also a distorted relationship on the work floor, can then lead to dissolution, of course, in so far as the court considers that the employer cannot be required to continue the contract in the specific case. So the judge still checks on those grounds as defined in the Work and Security Act. In practice, therefore, as a result of the cumulation ground, dismissal is now possible even in the case of an addition of circumstances. The amendment tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent to point No. 28, about not changing the right of dismissal, I must therefore advise against. Both the Internet consultation and the Council's position on the case law and the hearing with the experts show that a lot of people are very positive about the cumulation ground as a system. There are questions about height, but the system is widely appreciated positively. I must therefore advise against that amendment. Mr Smeulders now has a score of 50% in his amendments. Oh, no, there's gonna be something in a minute, but now I'm gonna tell you something in advance. The cumulation ground is a reasonable grounds for dismissal which is added to the already existing reasonable grounds for dismissal. The introduction of a cumulation ground will maintain the closed system of dismissal grounds. I'm not gonna change that in the law. There can only be circumstances from multiple grounds of dismissal which together justify a dismissal. The cumulation ground will then allow dismissal. The cumulation ground means that there must be a combination of circumstances from two or more grounds of dismissal which are such that the continuation of the contract of employment cannot reasonably be required of the employer. If the court dissolves because of the cumulation ground, the court may grant an additional allowance. That additional fee is limited to 50% of the transition fee. That is what Mr Wiersma's question was about: should this additional compensation always be granted? No, they can be granted. That's the judge's discretion. That 50% doesn't have to, but can. In the contribution of the members in the first term it was suggested that the employee could simply be thrown out. Of course, that should not be the case. That is why the extension of the right of dismissal is designed to protect the employee sufficiently against dismissal and to allow him to receive an additional redundancy allowance on the basis of the cumulation ground. Would you mind if I finished this, Mr. Chairman? Because it's all connected and it's important for the history of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u329	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u330	Since the WWZ, the law has established a closed system of reasonable dismissal grounds. If the employer and the employee do not emerge from each other, a preventive review shall be carried out by the canton court as to whether the employer may terminate the contract of employment. If the employer wishes to terminate the employment because of business conditions or long-term incapacity for work, permission must be sought from the UWV. In order to terminate for another reason, which is more in the person or relationship between the employer and the employee, the employer must ask the court to terminate the contract of employment. There are situations where circumstances arise from different grounds of dismissal which are in themselves insufficient for dismissal on one of the grounds of dismissal, i.e. do not fully satisfy one of the grounds of dismissal, but can be taken into account together. If these are taken into account, a situation may arise that the continuation of the contract of employment can reasonably no longer be required from the employer. In response to Mr Kuzu's fears, the judge will not simply dissolve on the grounds of cumulation if the employer has not sufficiently substantiated his request. There are still reasonable grounds for testing. The employer must still justify and justify his request for dissolution. It can only be done if the employer has a proper file, so it can prove that a file has been built up, with facts and circumstances on which the request for dissolution is based. It is then up to the court to determine whether the circumstances relied on by the employer in conjunction with the defence of the employee................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The employer, as in the case of an appeal to a single dismissal ground, will be less likely to have an inadequate record. Then the judge will not dissolve, because then there will be no facts, circumstances and file to dissolve. In the current system of dismissals, judges are often unable to dissolve the contract of employment. The single grounds for dismissal are not fulfilled and the law does not allow dissolution. Therefore, judges cannot provide sufficient customization. I think it is important that this change is made and that more tailor-made work can be done in the near future. Mr Wiersma asked if I expected the cumulation ground to be a standard dismissal ground. This isn't meant to happen. This is also discouraged, because there is an additional fee against dissolution on the basis of the cumulation ground. This gives an incentive to the employer to base the dismissal on only one grounds of dismissal. But in the end, practice will have to show how often the cumulation ground is used. Why an extra fee and why 50%? The court may grant additional compensation in the event of dismissal on the grounds of cumulation and the employer may invoke that ground if he considers that a single dismissal ground cannot be sufficiently substantiated and that there are multiple grounds for dismissal. If the judge then dissolves the employment contract because the culmination of circumstances creates a reasonable basis for dismissal, then it is reasonable for the employee to be compensated for that. I would like to stress that the cumulation ground is not a proper grounds for dismissal. That is what I say to the questions put by Mr Smeulders, Mr Stoffer, Mr Bruins, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Van Kent. The cumulation ground is, like the other grounds mentioned in the law, a reasonable basis. That's how he's defined in the law. As with the other grounds, the judge must first check whether the ground is fulfilled. Only when it is, can there be dissolution. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have to do this nicely, because this is just the legal history. It is only when the court is satisfied that dissolution must take place that the question arises as to whether an additional remuneration should be granted and, if so, how high that additional remuneration should be. An additional allowance is therefore intended to compensate the employee for dismissal due to the cumulation ground. In addition, the employer is thus encouraged to base his request for dissolution on a single dismissal ground and to properly support that ground. Mr Smeulders asked why there was a ceiling on compensation. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Kent also asked for this. They have tabled an amendment to item No. 33 to remove that maximation and leave it entirely to the court to decide how high the additional fee should be. I do not think that is a good idea, and I therefore reject the amendment. Maximising the additional fee is important to provide as much legal certainty as possible to the parties. For example, they know in advance how much compensation can be paid in the event of dismissal. This is important because this additional remuneration may also have an impact on Mrs Van Brenn, who rightly said so in an interrupting debate on the compensation agreed upon by mutual agreement in the adoption agreements in the event of dismissal. If you let go of the maximation, that leads to legal uncertainty and therefore more procedures. It will also lead to higher fees, not only in procedures but also in situations where the parties agree to terminate the contract of employment, which is not desirable, with more fixed contracts in mind. Nor should the consequences of dismissal be taken into account in the amount of the additional compensation, as Mr Van Dijk advocated in his contribution. The consequences of dismissal have already been taken into account in the regular transition fee, the rights that employees build up during their employment with an employer. Mr Smeulders asks why 50%? With a maximum of 50%, the employee is compensated for dismissal on the cumulation ground, the costs for the employer are not too high and the court has sufficient discretion, sufficient room for good compensation. Mrs Van Brenk has tabled an amendment to set the additional fee at 100% of the transition fee. I will also advise against this amendment, because in my opinion the cost to the employer would then be too high. The risk is therefore that the measure will go beyond its objective, namely a number of permanent jobs. Mr Van Dijk has asked whether I have looked at the difference between small and large employers in terms of the cumulation ground and the additional remuneration. I understand his request. In substance, I also understand his request, because indeed, large companies often have a better HR department and are more professional, which makes it easier for them to keep records. As a cabinet, we do not choose to make the remuneration received by the employee in the event of dismissal dependent on the size of the employer in which he is employed. Then you would again get a distinction between employees working in an SME and employees working at a multinational company. In one case, you'd get a higher severance pay. To be honest, I don't think I can explain that. This is also contrary to one of the basic rules of the Work and Security Act, in which distinction between UWV route and cantonal court route has correctly expired. The cabinet has chosen to compensate for the transition fee where it is really necessary, for example in the event of dismissal after long illness of the employee, and specifically for small employers in the event of dismissal due to cessation of their business. In other words, it does not go through the employee's side, I say to Mr Gijs van Dijk. But if compensation is made, it goes through the employer, i.e. in the event of cessation of business in the case of small holdings, sickness and death. They're also included in the bill. I will come back to that in detail later. The law states that the fee is up to 50% of the transition fee. It is therefore not an obligation to impose an additional fee. It's a possibility. Mr Wiersma asked about the risk that the judge would impose the 50% additional fee by default. I don't see that risk. The judge will justify whether and why compensation is granted. The court also motivates the amount of the compensation. It must be further crystallised in case law. I did give some direction in the note on the report. The starting point is that there is reason to grant a lower additional allowance if one or more of the grounds for dismissal is almost full. A higher additional allowance is needed if the grounds for dismissal are to a much lesser extent met. It may, of course, be the case that circumstances on just a few grounds are necessary for dissolution. In conjunction with the permanence of the grounds, I can imagine that such a situation would result in a lower compensation than when conditions on much more grounds are needed to bring about dissolution: less grounds lower, more grounds higher. I would also like to leave it to the court to determine the level of compensation and not to impose any further legal standards on it. This gives the judge the room for manoeuvre to offer customization in specific cases. This is in response to the contributions of Mr Bruins and Mr Stoffer. Just a few more questions. Mr Stoffer asked about the tax status of the additional compensation that the judge may impose on the cumulation ground. This will be seen as the same as the transition fee and the fair remuneration that the judge can award as wages from past employment. So it has the same fiscal status. Finally, Mrs Van Brenk asked whether the fair remuneration could still be applied, in addition to the additional remuneration for the cumulation ground. The answer to this is: yes, fair compensation remains. At the WWZ it was called "mouse hole," I think. Yeah, that's right, I see. This compensation is really intended for exceptional situations where there are serious culpable acts or omissions of the employer. That is why I am not in favour of Mrs Van Brenk's proposal to delete the word'serious', because it is really an exceptional situation and so the judge can also grant additional compensation if that situation is the case. The WAB adds the additional fee to the fee system introduced with the WWZ. The additional compensation, which is 50%, is intended to compensate the employee for dismissal on the basis of the cumulation ground. So it's a separate fee. The other one stays alive. It is therefore in addition to the transition fee in the event of termination on cumulation ground and potentially fair remuneration. I don't remember the article, but Mrs Van Brenk asked twice about it. These were the answers to the questions on the cumulation ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u331	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I think the Minister is very clear this evening, but on this point he contradicts himself a few times in my opinion. That started in the beginning of this block. In response to my question, what is actually the profit of this cumulation ground for employees, he clearly indicated: the profit is that there will be more fixed contracts, hopefully. But then he indicated: I do not really want to talk about profit and loss, because it is not really a loosening of the right of dismissal. So it's almost said. That is also my first question: can't the Minister just admit that with this law, with this amendment, it will be easier to fire people, and that it will be simply a watering down of the right of dismissal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u332	I understand this question. I'm definitely not trying to make a language game out of it or dive away. In my whole reply, I wanted to argue the following. At present, in some cases, some canton judges are not disbanded in many situations, as a reasonable grounds for dismissal cannot be met. We can see that in practice there are multiple situations: there is discussion about dysfunction and at the same time there is a distorted employment relationship, because an employee and an employer are arguing with each other. By adding the cumulation ground you say on the one hand: we maintain the system. There's still got to be a reasonable ground to fire. You still need a file. You still have to go to court with facts and circumstances. Only, you can combine land. If you do that, the judge can award a higher fee for that. It'll almost be some kind of language game whether this is a rinsing or not. I don't want to, because I think it's too serious for that. It is very careful, but you do give more room to the judge to dissolve faster, and in that sense that is a relaxation. I have therefore tried to indicate this balance in my reply. Again, I am not playing a language game here; I am just trying to be very clear about how we intended to solve a problem in practice. Because the problem is there: there is no dissolution, with all the consequences of that, which could lead to a distorted employment relationship and perhaps people are going to call in sick. This space can lead to dissolution more quickly, but there is a higher remuneration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u333	It is a bit difficult for the Minister, but he has finally said that it is a relaxation. I believe that this is also right and we do not have to make it difficult. My second question concerns something on which the Minister also contradicts himself somewhat. He clearly states that dismissal on the basis of the cumulation ground is no more inadequate than dismissal on the basis of the other grounds. But then he immediately indicates that you will receive a higher remuneration for that. I don't think that makes any sense in one way or another, because if it isn't more improper, why would you get a higher fee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u334	In legal engineering, it's a reasonable ground that we've added. That doesn't make it bad. It is one of the reasonable grounds for dismissal, but since you combine the grounds for dismissal, we think it is justified that a higher remuneration may be required. That's the whole analysis of this law. Again, I am trying to show why that is a problem in practice. I have here a list of quotes from the hearing and from the Council of State, from the Association of Labour Law Lawyers, from the Council of Justice. They all see this as a solution to a problem in practice. That's why we're doing this. I understand that this is going to be a political debate on whether or not it is a relaxation of the right of dismissal. I have tried to indicate, also for the history of law and practice, how this system should work. I've tried to do that carefully. It will indeed lead to more frequent dissolution, but with higher remuneration. In this sense, it is a relaxation, but it solves a major problem in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u335	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u336	Look, we're here in Lower House. This is a political arena. It is up to all our groups to make a political assessment of this law. I understand that the Minister must be very secure, because what he says has implications for how possible judges will make statements in the future. But I think we should just tell the truth here and not talk with flour in the mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u337	I recognize that, don't I? I don't want to make a word game out of this. I recognize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u338	No, no, no. On that first point, you clearly acknowledged it. I think it took a little effort, but that's what you did. Now on that second point: is the cumulation ground a sound ground or not? I do believe that we, as legislators, you have a lot of clever officials who can write that down very well and that this is a sound ground. I hope so, because otherwise it's a bit of a crazy law we're dealing with here. But it's just a political choice, Mr Koolmees, to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u339	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u340	Sorry, Chairman. Surely it is a political choice for the Minister to say that we might find this land a little less harsh and strong, and that is why we are giving a high remuneration? But that's a political choice. I would like the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u341	Yeah, I'll confirm that. It is a political choice based on an analysis of the practice, in which a bottleneck has been identified for which we as political parties have found a solution in a coalition agreement. It is based on analyses of lawyers, the association of labour law lawyers, the Council of Justice and the Council of State. The experts in the hearing also indicated this. If Mr Smeulders wants me to acknowledge that it is a political choice, I say yes. But it was made on the basis of facts and analyses because we are trying to solve a bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u342	It is therefore a political choice by this minister and this government to make it easier to fire people, to relax the right of dismissal. The Minister also defends this by saying: yes, but if you combine those grounds with each other, you will receive a higher remuneration. At the same time, this bill takes away the higher remuneration of people who work with the same boss for more than ten years. That fee's already going down there. That fee has already fallen hugely in the previous flex law, by Mr Asscher. I just gave you a few math examples in which only a third of that total fee is left. This is about that one and a half time. The minister says that those grounds are combined, it's easier to fire people, it's a loosening of dismissal rights, but you get a higher fee. But on the other hand, you're taking the fee. Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u343	Yes, the construction of the transition fee is modified in the bill. The transition fee from day one for people with a flex contract is against that. The current practice is that they only build up transition compensation for two years, but in this bill people build it up from day one. The people with short or temporary contracts are better protected. On the other hand, the construction... In a moment I will come back to this in more detail, because it is a complicated structure. What was the situation before the Work and Security Act? As you were older and had a longer employment, you had a higher structure. A transitional arrangement has been introduced in the Work and Security Act. Until 2020, people over 50 years of age with an employment of more than 10 years of age have been saying that they have a higher level of education. That temporary arrangement was due to expire in 2020. For those people with a longer employment period, the structure of the transition fee would be half a month per year worked. This is reduced in the legislative proposal to a third month, which is aligned for everyone, regardless of the duration of the employment. This makes it very predictable, very easy to apply and the same for everyone. If Mr Van Kent asks if this is a reduction, I answer that this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u344	Yeah, but then we have to be honest about that, too. Then we must say: you can be dismissed more easily, you will not receive higher compensation if you work longer somewhere. In short, this really undermines protection against unfair dismissal and a serious deterioration for workers threatened with dismissal. The lawyers of the FNV, who assist people on a daily basis, also said in the conversation that we had that this is going to lead to a decline and that this is going to cause very legal problems and costs. In short, not for nothing have the SP and many other parties made proposals to get this unfortunate part of that law. This is the pain of this law for many opposition parties. After all the joy and positivity, this is the bottom of the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u345	I will come back to that in detail in a moment, but I would like to comment on one point in substance. Mr Van Kent is talking about unfair dismissal. I just explained in detail that we're not talking about unfair dismissal. We have reasonable grounds for dismissal, which is being reviewed by the canton court. That's what it's about. The fact is that the transition fee is being adjusted. I will go into that in a moment, because more questions have been asked about it. I'm not running away from that either. It's being modified. There are also considerations for which I will return shortly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u346	Touched.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u347	But it's not an unjustified discharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u348	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u349	When it comes to the right discharge, the proposal before us is that the single-fact structure should be extended to a cumulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u350	Sorry, I didn't understand the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u351	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u352	That is true, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u353	From one dismissal ground to a cumulation of reasonable dismissal grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u354	That's exactly what I'm saying. In practice, we are going to see cases becoming more complicated and more difficult to assess by judges. In any case, that is what judges also indicate in connection with the research of the University of Amsterdam. They say quite clearly: why is the current system affected, while the grounds for termination of a contract of employment are sufficient for the variety of cases that occur in practice? This is what judges say about it and what's in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u355	I recognize that. This is a study by the Hugo Sinzheimer Institute of the University of Amsterdam which Mr Kuzu is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u356	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u357	This is about the diversity of the grounds themselves: dysfunction, distorted employment relationship... The bill concerns the cumulation of those grounds. Those are two separate things, aren't they? Again, it's going to be a repeat of moves. If you look at the Council of State, the Council of Justice, the experts at the hearing, there is broad support for adding this cumulation ground, with critical comments on the remuneration, certainly. Mr Kuzu asks whether these grounds cover the grounds for dismissal. The answer is yes. But in practice, a combination of these reasons can still be reason to say: we have to dissolve. That's the cumulation ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u358	In practice, this means that it is made easier to fire people. Then the simple question is: why does the Minister want to make it easier for employers to fire employees and further increase that uncertainty? That is the essential question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u359	I think I've been arguing that all night. We started with the target. Why do we want this? We want to make the permanent contract more attractive. One of the reasons why employers do not offer fixed contracts is the uncertainty about dismissal when the employer no longer has a place. That could have to do with production, dysfunction, personal circumstances, fighting in the workplace. Those are the grounds for dismissal now. Indeed, it is a relaxation, as I indicated to Mr Smeulders. It is a solution to a problem in practice, sometimes not dissolved because one of the grounds for dismissal is not fully met. But the goal is to reduce the risks for entrepreneurs to allow more people to get a permanent contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u360	When you want to give people a permanent contract, you shouldn't make it easier to fire people. The practice is decisive in this respect. What will happen in the workplace every day? You're gonna get HR employees walking around all day, with a pen in their hand, to make all kinds of notes, to be able to comply with that cumulation rule. That is what happens in practice. If the Minister doesn't want to acknowledge this, then he really has a beam in his eye. He sees that happen in practice, doesn't he? At least that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u361	If this were the case, what Mr Kuzu is now describing, it would be the case now. This is a false argument. It is in the discussion on the cumulation ground. We have since the Work and Security Act the collective grounds and the personal grounds. The only fact is that these land can now be combined or combined. That's what this is about. If Mr Kuzu's fear were true, a staff member with a pen and a file in his hand would go into the workplace to make a file. That's not the practice. In fact, employers are jumping at people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u362	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u363	No, the economic prosperity and the tight labour market that we have at the moment are not always there. I hope that my fears will not be realized, but everyone with a logical mind can see what the measure taken here is going to bring about in practice. That's the point. The minister's just wandering around here. And I find that truly regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u364	I would like to draw Mr Kuzu's attention to the extensive internet consultation and the extensive reactions of the experts during the hearing. In fact, all of them, without exception, were positive about the addition of the cumulation ground as a real solution to a problem in practice. It's what we all hear, even when we go to work, and what we all see in those surveys and in those studies: why do employers give people a permanent contract? The accumulation of risks, the accumulation of costs, prevents people from getting involved. The cabinet wants to reduce those risks by means of various routes via the cumulation ground, but also by means of the payment of wages in the event of illness. That's the bill. Nor should we make Indian stories; it is still being reviewed by the judge on the basis of reasonable grounds for dismissal. But, yes, it is an extra possibility. Right away. On the basis of an extensive expert analysis: a very sensible measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u365	The cabinet eases the right of dismissal by adding the cumulation ground. That's the one story. But I don't think the other story tells the minister. There are also many experts who say: give the judge more room than the arbitrary limit of that up to one and a half transition fee. And I'd like to talk to the Minister about that. Because if you take this step, we have also proposed this in an amendment. Let it go in order to give those people a little more protection and also to give the judge a little more space. Is the Minister prepared to take another look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u366	In my reply, that point has already been made. Why was a maximation chosen? That has to do with legal certainty, predictability, also for practice outside the courtroom, I'll say. So it's in the fixing agreements. This morning, when Mr Van Dijk himself was speaking, this point was already mentioned in the debate on the interruptions. If you take the cap off, if you remove the limitation of the fine, then of course the risk is that you actually go back to the canton court formula we had before. Then you can say, on the basis of a very small percentage of reasonable ground, that it is a bad case, so to speak: the employer has not done his best to justify why dismissal is justified, but I'm just handing in a bag of money. You'll get exactly the kind of situation that I don't think we all want, because we all want the judge to still check if there's good reason to fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u367	I think it's still a closed system, even if you let go of the maximation. So I don't think that story goes on. I also noticed in the interrupting debate that the coalition accused me of proposing something worse than the cabinet. Then I would like to know from an independent body whether it is. Can we not even present these systems, without or with maximation, to a scientific institute or whatever, an independent advisory body, which says what is actually better for the protection of people and, of course, for the whole process of dismissal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u368	With this bill, we've all been through this route, haven't we? We put this whole proposal in front of all the experts, didn't we? The Court of Justice, the Council of State, the Internet consultation. And yes, different signals have come out of that. There are signs that point in the direction of Mr Gijs van Dijk: do not limit it, because then the judge will have more freedom. There are also people who say: you should not grant any additional compensation at all, because there is a reasonable ground; put it at zero. The cabinet opted for an intermediate route with 50%. Is that based on hard science? No. It is based on an indication: if the canton judge sees that in practice there really is no future for the employment relationship, what could be the room for the canton judge he can use to fire anyway? So these experts have already talked about this. I have a whole package here with all these documents, on which various opinions have been given and after which a percentage has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u369	And eventually it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u370	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sorry. In the end, it is a question of political support. If the cabinet wants a broader political basis, including in this Chamber, then I would recommend that we look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u372	Does Mr Gijs van Dijk say that if the percentage is increased, then the PvdA group will support the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u373	Oh! Mr. Gijs van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u374	For the Labour Party, this really is the painful point in the law. It is unnecessary in these times of economic prosperity, in which one is jumping over good people. Employers want those people, too. There's no need. If you go this way, and hence the amendment, then the Labour Party wants that maximation to be released. Then we'll have a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u375	This is complicated to me anyway. I have just explained in detail why I think it should not be abandoned, namely because of the agreement practice, predictability and also the lines of justice. On the contrary, I see the risk that the old canton judge's formula will come back, while we have put an end to it with the Work and Security Act. So I find that complicated in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u376	Easier firing and cheaper. It seems like the minister is actually shopping: what good is it for him? I'm just looking for what space the minister offers. That's why I brought in the mouse hole. The Minister replied: I am not going to delete the word'serious'. But I'm just looking, because justice really gave us the signal: give us space now, because there are sometimes very poignant stories. Very often it concerns older workers. The question is: why does this minister not want to give room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u377	During the treatment of the Work and Security Act, this mouse hole, this equity fee, came into it for severely culpable situations; the employer is then seriously reproachable, thus creating room for much higher remuneration. Indeed, the term'strongly reproachable' refers to matters such as sexual harassment and discrimination; such examples. I believe that research has been carried out into the use of this land in recent years. I would like to come back to that in the second term. But it is precisely because of the seriousness that this escape route or outlet has arrived, which allows the judge to say: this is so seriously reproachable that I give a high fee for that. But the intention of the Work and Security Act and this mouse hole was that in practice it would be limited to truly exceptional cases. And what I am afraid of now, I say very openly to Mrs Van Brenk, is that if you extend it very much now, it will have a standard canton court formula-like effect. And we just built the system on reasonable grounds of dismissal. I am going to try in the suspension to get those data on the use of that fairness fee out of the table, and then I will give Mrs Van Brenk some illustrations of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u378	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u379	I am indeed interested in that. But it also seems that this minister has little confidence in the judges when it comes to whether they can decide for themselves what is really unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u380	No. We have tried to give guidelines of guidance in this law and in the note on the report when it comes to how we should interpret that space between 0% and 50%: how should we put it into practice? My image is the opposite: if you don't put a cap on it, it will only become more insecure. There is therefore a risk of even more rapid dissolution, I shall say even if the land is not fully covered. Mrs. Van Brenk knows what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u381	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u382	Then it's probation. I can talk about that for a very long time, or very briefly. I think I'll be very brief. You were able to read it in the note following the report, in the bill and in the explanatory memorandum itself: the idea was to find an innovative way to tempt employers to offer more permanent contracts. During the hearing you will hear it, I listen to experts! The probationary period has been extensively questioned. Even today, parties have indicated that they do not see much good in it. There are indeed more risks than opportunities, so I would like to give Mr Smeulders' amendment 'Court of Justice' on this point. So if this amendment is adopted, it will be the probationary extension out of the law. So that is indeed a 50% score for Mr Smeulders; that was just in my text, but it is only now a fact. That is the first amendment tabled by Mr Smeulders. Then I'll get to the transition fee. The transition fee is, of course, intended as compensation for workers who lose their jobs involuntarily and can serve as shelter for the loss of income. The transition fee can also be used as a training budget to facilitate the transition to a new job. As far as I am concerned, the costs of the transition fee for the employer should not determine the contract he offers an employee. This may be the case now, because when a contract is terminated for less than two years, often a temporary contract, there is no transitional fee. Also, the incentive not to dismiss long-term employees due to high redundancy costs does not contribute to a well-functioning labour market. That is why there are two changes in the structure of the transition fee. These measures together create a new balance within this transition fee. Together with the other measures in the legislative proposal, they contribute to creating a new balance on the labour market. Firstly, it is proposed to abolish the two-year reference period, which means that from day one entitlement to transition fee exists. Secondly, it is proposed to abolish the increase in the building-up of ten-year or more jobs. There was an extra step in it and it will be abolished. These changes ensure that the transition fee is a third gross monthly salary per year of service, regardless of the length of the employment. But she's linear, so if you have a long employment, you have higher rights. These measures reduce the impact of dismissal costs on the choice of the form of contract. This eliminates the difference between shorter and longer contracts. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me to address the concerns surrounding the transition fee from day one in sectors with a lot of seasonal work. Together with Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma, he also asked about the consequences for amateur sport, the football sector. In the case of seasonal work, I see the concerns, in particular about the increase in the cost of the work because each termination of a contract requires payment of a fee, while the employer often takes on the same employee again the following season. It is good to know that there is already an exception in the law. It is settled that employers who hire the same temporary worker each season do not have to pay a transition fee at the end of each season. This can also be used in sport. I do not think that a wider or other exception to the transition fee is desirable, because the purpose of the measure is precisely to reduce differences between long, fixed and short temporary contracts. The starting point is that each employee receives a transition fee, regardless of whether he is employed for a long or short period of time and regardless of the sector in which he works. An exception for sport is also advocated in the chain definition. Here's what I'm gonna do. In particular, the KNVB has expressed its concerns in this regard and these are known about the proposed changes to the chain determination. The current law already provides for an exception for the KNVB to the chain provision for football players and coaches working in paid football. So there are already possibilities under the current law for a special position for the football sector. The chain clause is now being extended so that the interval can be reduced by collective agreement in return for temporary work. This also creates opportunities for the sport sectors. My ministry has discussed these possibilities with the KNVB. It is up to the sports sectors themselves to see whether they can meet the conditions and thus make use of that exception. I do not think that a wider exception is desirable, because the provision is intended to temporarily reduce the differences between long, fixed and short. A number of questions have been asked about abolishing the increase in the structure after ten years of employment or more and its impact on older workers. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Kuzu asked. Mr Kuzu is right. Older workers with long employment will receive a lower transition fee after 2020, but this is mainly due to the expiry of the temporary scheme for people aged 50 or over with a ten-year or more employment. This is a temporary arrangement introduced in Minister Asscher's Work and Security Act and due to expire in 2020, with the agreement of many of the parties in your Chamber. The bill for the SAB only proposes to set the structure of the transition fee at a third month's salary per year of service, regardless of the length of the employment. This choice is part of a search for a new balance. On the one hand, short and with a right to a transition fee. On the other hand, if it's long, it's less. Together they ensure that the differences between long, solid, short and temporary are removed. The adjustment of the structure also makes it more attractive for employers to offer fixed contracts. Workers, including older workers, will soon return to work. Mr Van Kent has an amendment to point No. The Court of First Instance held that, in order to maintain the increase in the structure in the case of an employment contract of 10 years or more, the transitional arrangements should, as it were, be extended. I would advise against this amendment. As I indicated, the package of measures related to the transition fee is a matter of a new balance sheet. The amendment takes that balance out of the package. The desired effects of the measures, the elimination of differences, are no longer achieved. The equalisation of the structure of the transition fee also promotes the flow of the labour market. This also has the effect that employees generally get to work faster on the basis of a fixed contract. 'Cause that's gonna be more attractive. Moreover, this amendment also involves additional costs of 30 million per year from 2020. It is good to point this out to Mr Van Kent and the Chamber. This has to do with the fact that if you have a higher transition fee, the compensation scheme will also be more expensive. So that 30 million still has to be covered within the budget. All in all, I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 34.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u383	I want to know which other amendments you need to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u384	I've got a few more. They're hidden in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u385	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u386	Firstly, we are, of course, very pleased that the redundancy allowance will apply from day 1. That's a long-cherished wish from the SP. Secondly, as I have pointed out before, we are concerned about the sharp decline in compensation granted to employees. I've given you some math examples. There's only a third of it left. And it is precisely this measure, which increases that fee after 10 years, that is one of the components that provides for a slightly higher remuneration. Does the Minister recognise that dismissal for employers is becoming increasingly cheaper and that this government's conscious policy is to do so by failing to implement this measure after 2020? Does he recognise that it is therefore extremely cheap for employers to fire people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u387	What I recognize is that by aligning the structure from day 1 onwards, temporary contracts from day 1 onwards also make a third month's salary and no longer make a distinction between age and age, which in fact reduces protection. That's right. I can't get around that. That's just a fact. It was once a month's salary a year above 50. The Work and Security Act has reduced that to half a month's salary and this bill reduces it to a third month's salary. That still means that the fee is linear. If you have a long service, you're still building up a higher transition fee. The note on the report also asked for sums, including by Mr Van Kent. What are the different amounts? There is, of course, converted possibly a cumulation ground. That's just the standard fee. It's true that that's the effect of that. This has to do with making the fixed contract more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u388	That has nothing to do with making the permanent contract more attractive. This simply has to do with first of all relaxing the right of dismissal, so making it easier for employers to fire people, and secondly with the intention to make it even cheaper. By this we recognize a right-wing government, by which we recognize the influence of the VVD, VNO and others. Yeah, well, then the monkey's gonna come out of the sleeve. Then we see that these fine words by the Minister and some good measures are really overshadowed by a harsh measure and a brutal attack on workers' rights, which simply make it easier to get rid of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u389	I have argued in detail here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u390	No, Mrs. Van Brenk. I see you're trying to interrupt. I'm sorry. However, I would suggest that the Minister conclude this matter first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u391	Mr Stoffer asked a question on the same point. He asked whether, in the context of the expiry of the 50-plus scheme of the transition fee, the judge would be given the opportunity to provide tailor-made services so that people's age and opportunities in the labour market could be taken into account. In fact, that is the question of whether we can go back to the old system of redundancy payments that can be determined entirely by the judge. Then you are going to deviate from the system introduced by the Work and Security Act for the reasonable grounds, because there age is not taken into account. I don't intend to. I have argued in detail what the system is in the Labour Market Act in balance. Mr Stoffer argued that the consequences of dismissal by the judge should be taken into account in determining the level of compensation. The Work and Security Act chose precisely to include the consequences of dismissal in the standard transition fee. In the previous period it was a very conscious choice of Minister Asscher not to do so anymore. That is why there is also a transitional arrangement on this issue, which will end in 2020. Then company shut down. Have any questions been asked about that? Yes. In particular, questions have been asked about compensation for the transition fee in the event of cessation of business and illness. Several parties, such as D66 and 50PLUS, have asked in writing whether the proposed compensation scheme could be extended to include the situation of the death of employers. That wasn't part of the bill. It was brought in by Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Van Weyenberg in the written round. I think it's a good and sympathetic idea. Therefore, the first letter of amendment states that the compensation scheme is to be extended, including for these cases of death. For the compensation scheme in the event of cessation of business, sickness and death, the government agreement estimated an amount of 100 million. That was based on a very rough assessment, because we actually had no idea how many cases were involved. It was found to cost approximately 40 million in practice: 35 million for compensation in the event of cessation of business and in the case of sickness and 5 million for compensation in the event of death. This does indeed mean that money has been left in this scheme. Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma asked about this. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked for this. They have asked to spend the money on an additional financial boost to stimulate learning culture in SMEs. I fully support the importance of creating a positive and strong learning culture. It is also one of the spearheads of last year's five-track approach, of Life Lang Development. This is particularly true for SMEs, where lifelong development is less developed than for larger companies, where special attention is paid to them. I would therefore very much like to join Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Heerma and Mr Bruins in thinking about how we can make the best possible use of the additional resources to increase the learning culture in SMEs. The funds are still in the budget, in the supplementary post of the Ministry of Finance. So I have to talk to my colleague in the finance department about this first, but then I will work very hard to make good use of these resources. Mr Heerma asked what scope I see for sectoral customization for seasonal work, including in agriculture and horticulture, but also in the catering industry. It's a broad question: what kind of space is there? There's still financial space in the envelope. I believe that it can also go towards training, precisely to give the sectors a perspective on the training of well-qualified people and on the ability to fill vacancies with them. I think it is an interesting suggestion from Mr Heerma to help employers by investing in training. I am also looking at Mr Heerma for the further implementation of the initiative. I think it's gonna be in the second term. Specific questions have been asked about the compensation of the transition allowance in the event of a two-year employee's illness and about the deduction of training costs. First, I'm gonna go into two years of illness. The employer who creates an employee after two years of illness is compensated for the transition allowance. The law governing this was passed by the Chamber last summer. It was also in the April package of Minister Asscher in the previous period. I think that was then with Mrs Vermeij and Mr Van 't Wout. Mr Van Weyenberg now asks me about the relationship of this law with the WAB. He points out the difference between the dismissal costs for employers before and after 1 January 2020, when the SAB has entered into operation. He asked if I would encourage employers to terminate dormant employment already before 1 January 2020. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that it is very important that these dormant employment should be terminated as soon as possible. The compensation scheme removes barriers for employers. Employers also have an interest in putting an end to these dormant employments, because the construction of the transition fee continues until the end of the employment period. However, the counter for compensation stops at 104 weeks, i.e. after the period of pay-as-you-go in case of illness. This means that the employer will not be compensated for the transition fee accumulated over the dormant period between the end of 104 weeks and the actual dismissal. In other words, it is also an incentive to fire, and that is also desirable. I call on all employers to put an end to these dormant employments as soon as possible and I will, of course, also start an information process to bring this point to the fore, in close cooperation with UWV, because it is simply a long and annoying process. Mr Van Dijk asked a question about the deduction of training costs, namely why I am extending the possibility of reducing the cost of the transition fee. He noted that it was not intended that employees should pay the cost of training for their own duties. I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk. The costs of training for one's own job are borne by the employer. The employer is also legally obliged to incur these costs. That is why the extension of the possibility of a deduction of costs does not take this into account either. It's not about one's own function. The expansion is in training for another function. This fits in with the picture of lifelong development and being prepared for changes in the labour market. With enlargement, I want to encourage employers and employees to invest in sustainable, but also wider employability, even outside the current position. That is also the reason for the enlargement. It fits into track one, the lifelong development policy that Mrs Van Brenk asked for. The reason for this increase is not simply to reduce the fees. It is really a sensible use of the compensation to allow people to simply invest preventively in sustainable employability, including in functions outside the current position. Then I come to Mr Van Dijk's question about the five-year deadline. He is concerned that this deadline is too long and asked if I am prepared to look at this deadline. I don't share the concerns. First of all, it is important that employees and employers can always agree on a different period of time. The five-year period is only valid if the parties themselves have not agreed on a time limit at all. If no agreements have been made, I think a period of five years is reasonable. A time limit must be of some size in order to make it interesting for the employer to invest in this sustainable employability. Then you'll need a few years to shape that somewhat. Mr Stoffer asked for the possibility of granting the additional remuneration to be extended to all dismissal grounds. That was actually another point of accumulation that had remained. The aim is not only to allow additional compensation for the use of the cumulation ground, but also for all individual grounds. In view of my speech, Mr Stoffer understands that I do not recommend this amendment. The additional fee is meant in case you accumulate: if you put two grounds together to dissolve. This situation does not apply to the other grounds for dismissal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u392	What amendment was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u393	The amendment in part No. 21. Contrary to Mr Stoffer's argument, there is no unjustified unequal treatment, because the situations are not the same. In the event of dissolution on the cumulation ground, it has not been possible to base it on one single ground, whereas in the case of the cumulation ground it is really two grounds. The employee will be compensated for this. From that philosophy, I advise against this amendment. Then the second last block: premium differentiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u394	A brief question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u395	I didn't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u396	Sorry. What question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u397	I asked whether it is reasonable for older workers to be less compensated because they are less likely to be in the labour market, and therefore whether this financial compensation should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u398	I understand this question, but this question is working in two directions. One of the problems in recent years has rightly always been the focus of Mrs Van Brenk's attention, namely the position of 50-plussers on the labour market. They're really hard to get back in. One of the reasons why employers are reluctant to rehire older workers was this difference in redundancy payments. They had the image "old is expensive" and therefore they preferred to employ but not an older employee. I think that is a very bad situation, because it simply reduces the chance to get back to work. Apart from the fact that in many cases it is simply not the case, there is also the picture that older workers would be sick more often. That's not true. There are a lot of images and that is why we also have the action plan 50-plus. But the image has existed for a very long time, which is expensive, because they received a high remuneration for dismissal. It is precisely because of this that the opportunities for older workers are being better formulated, for older unemployed people to get back in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u399	I would like to come back to the amendment on item No. 21. I understand the Minister's argument very well, of course. There was one more thing in the explanatory statement for me. Of course, I'm trying all kinds of ways to get something in. For that older employee, which Mrs Van Brenk has just mentioned, the finances are one part, but it's also just something that's in society that someone aged 57 years or 62 years... I do not agree, because I have accepted them and I have always been happy with them; let me say that here too. But you can see that it's very difficult in society to get to work. That is why my amendment is 21, because I want to find something that can be taken into account if people fail to get in front of the canton court, i.e. the judge can do something about it. Is that something else the Minister might be able to persuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u400	I have great sympathy for Mr Stoffer's speech and also for Mrs Van Brenk's speech, because I also see that it is a real social problem. I just don't think the firing system is the right way to do something about this. Indeed, it only leads to making it more unattractive for employers to employ older unemployed people. Earlier this evening, I did say that I agree that offering no-risk policies can help. If you then hire an older employee as an employer, you are simply free from payment of wages in the event of illness. I think that is good tools for challenging and stimulating employers. The same applies to LIV for older people, the wage cost advantage for older unemployed people. From that angle, I find it much more sensible to stimulate and encourage employers to employ older jobseekers. Mr Van Weyenberg has asked a number of times for an overview of all the instruments. It'll be available soon and I'd like to do it along that road. This also fits in with the Action Plan 50-plus, which we are continuing with because we still see, even in these good economic times, that older jobseekers still have a worse position on the labour market. But to solve that through the firing system... I don't think so... In fact, I think it's counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u401	I very much appreciate that the Minister is also looking for these roads, but that still leaves a group of over 58 or 59 years of age for which this does not help either. And they come between the wheels very annoyingly. Does the Minister see opportunities for this? I don't see any other way but that you're gonna take care of that right of dismissal. But the Minister has much more knowledge of it and maybe he sees opportunities there too. There is a real pain in my mind, because what the Minister is proposing here is no longer working for that group either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u402	However, I would like to argue that the solution to this is, in my view, not in the right of dismissal and not in the compensation for transition, but in the other instruments. These are the tools that employers need to seduce in order to recruit older jobseekers. In the end, it is about the risks that employers face. Again, if you are going to solve this through the dismissal system, this will, especially in the case of an age determination, result in higher costs for the employer or a higher risk of high redundancy compensation if he wants to fire an older employee. So the risk is that he doesn't hire that older employee and that's where we want to remove that obstacle. I see a lot more in a no-riskpolis. I see much more in the subsidies and in the action plans than in the right of dismissal as a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u403	Finally, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u404	For me, this remains a little bit of a difference of insight and I think we are not getting there tonight. This really hurts me and it's really a bump for me to get behind this law. So, yes, that concludes me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u405	Then you've made your point, I guess. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u406	Mr. Chairman. The fourth block, the premium differentiation. With the WAB we try to reduce the difference between fixed and flexible contracts and the WW premium differentiation is an important instrument. I have also heard this evening in your Chamber that there is broad support for that instrument. The difference in the premium between the high and the low premium is 5 percentage points, which means that the premium for people on a fixed contract will be 2.78 by 2020 and for people on a flexible contract 7.78, 5 percentage points difference. When can the low premium be paid? The main rule is that the low premium is paid by people on a written contract of employment for an indefinite period of time with a fixed number of hours. If there is not a fixed number of hours, it is a call agreement, as I have already pointed out to Mr Gijs van Dijk. However, fixed contracts with a fixed number of hours sometimes also have a flexible component, for example in the area of accessibility services in the healthcare sector. That flexible component means that there is actually a call agreement. The Cabinet intends to exclude such services in the care sector from the definition of the call agreement at AMvB, thus allowing the low premium to be paid if there is a normal written contract for an indefinite period of time. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Stoffer and Mrs Van Brenk asked me to respond to the concern expressed by the healthcare workers to exempt the consignment services, the accessibility services and the on-call services from the 30% rule, in which the high premium should be paid retroactively. I understand the concerns of Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Stoffer and Mrs Van Brenk and also of the healthcare workers. The reason for including these services under the 30% rule is that extra hours due, for example, to consignment services in the policy administration cannot be distinguished from extra hours worked due to a lot of overtime. I am pleased that the healthcare workers write in a letter that they understand the measures taken to combat unbridled overtime. I am therefore talking to the healthcare workers to see how we can achieve that goal and at the same time do justice to the special nature of some services in the care sector. I've asked them for additional facts. There is sufficient time to have that conversation, because the situation that the high premium has to be paid retroactively is laid down in lower regulation and not in the law itself. In addition, an exception has been made for the high premium for temporary contracts for employees in the bbl, the vocational apprenticeship, i.e. work and study combinations. The cabinet wanted to encourage this training route. Moreover, in this case the employer has no option other than a temporary contract and promotion through a high premium therefore has no effect. Several trade associations have pointed out that in many cases young people with side jobs do not want a permanent contract in addition to their training. The cabinet acknowledges this fact and also points out that there are young people who have a regular job at a young age and are dependent on that income. I therefore feel sympathy, perhaps, that Mr Stoffer can now be put in a more positive position for part of Mr Stoffer's amendment, which makes an exception to the high premium for young people under the age of 21 who do not work more than 12 hours a week. Those students, students, additional jobs are exempted from the high premium in the amendment. By setting a ceiling on the number of hours per week, it can be ensured that there are indeed side jobs. Mr Wiersma also suggested this. That seems to me to be a right point of attention to resolve. However, I think that the other parts of the amendment go too far. I'd also like to explain why. The exception for young people under the age of 21 with small jobs to the call measures and the adjustment of the age from 18 to 21 with the exception of the chain determination and the transition fee is based on an age distinction and that is not possible. There is also no justification for the distinction between working hours. This justification weighs heavily because the age limit and the distinction between working hours also affect the worker directly in his rights. The other, of course, is the employer who pays a premium. It's the employee who has rights. That part of the amendment, if Mr Stoffer were to amend it, I would give Chamber judgment, but the other part, about the transition fee and the chain clause, concerns a distinction, private law, which I do not want to make. The members Van Weyenberg, Wiersma, Stoffer, Heerma and Bruins stated that it is difficult for seasonal work to offer permanent contracts. Let me begin by stressing that the aim of the WW premium differentiation according to the nature of the contract is twofold. One is to stimulate fixed contracts and two is to price the inflow into the WW. The damage burden, so to define it, is higher. I acknowledge that entering into permanent contracts for seasonal work is more difficult than for some other activities, but it is not impossible. In order to increase the possibilities, the bill allows the low premium to be paid for contracts with a standard of annual hours. For flexible contracts, the risk of influx into the WW is greater and, as far as I am concerned, this includes a higher WW premium. "The polluter pays" moves into the new system from the sectoral level to the level of the individual employer. I therefore do not intend to make an exception for seasonal work. Besides, it's not feasible. I'd like to explain that. I've had a lot of discussion with the IRS about that. For such an exception, the Tax Administration should check per employee whether seasonal work is carried out and whether such work is covered by an exception under collective agreement. Unfortunately, that cannot be maintained. Such an exception is therefore not justified. I am therefore unable to implement the part of Mr Stoffer's amendment which provides for an exception to the high WW premium for climatic conditions designated by collective agreement. That's why I have to advise against it. Then there are the other elements in Mr Stoffer's amendment. As you know, we are already taking steps in the legislative proposal with regard to the chain clause. For example, it is proposed that the interim period can be reduced by collective agreement in the event of a return to temporary work. This means that parties have a better chance of making sectoral tailor-made possible. A request may also be made here by the Labour Foundation if the collective agreement parties do not come out of this. It is more complicated when it comes to call-up measures. I have tried to find a balance between the employer's need for flexibility and the importance for the employee of greater security. The employee also has the rent and the groceries that have to be paid every month. On the other hand, a farmer or an employer in agriculture and horticulture may also have his hands in the hair if he has to respond to weather forecasts, to changes in climatic conditions. Therefore, in sectors covered by collective agreements, the call and cancellation period can be reduced to 24 hours. So you can take climatic conditions into account. I understand the concerns about jobs in companies in sectors that are highly dependent on these weather conditions. Then there is Mr Stoffer's amendment. I don't know what song that has, because I don't have it right here. Is that 23? That amendment allows for an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u407	The amendment in part No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 23 has Is that right, Mr. Stoffer? I see that's the case. And 31 you've already been treated, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u408	I'll just have to see if this is the right one. I think this is the right one. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u409	31, yes. You've already treated it, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u410	Yeah, sorry. This amendment allows an exception in the case of collective agreements for all recurring temporary work which can be carried out for a maximum of nine months. This is wider than for jobs where employers are highly dependent on weather conditions. These are functions that can be performed for longer periods of time. I would like to limit this to the group covered by the current seasonal worker scheme under the chain regime. The amendment would also allow the exception for all other recurring temporary work, for example for football trainers and in the cultural sector. There are no climatic conditions such that they require an exception. I therefore find this undesirable, because it is precisely for the functions in which the work depends on climatic conditions that I can imagine in Mr Stoffer's request and the purpose of his amendment, but not in the other, more planned, temporary work. Cao parties are then best able to determine in the consultation between employers and employees whether they need such exceptions to climatic conditions in their sector and whether there should be an exception to the call time and supply after 12 months. I could leave Mr Stoffer's amendment to the Chamber's opinion if the SGP proposed that the collective agreement for functions which could only be carried out on a seasonal basis by climatic conditions should provide for an exception for the call period and the offer after 12 months. The exception to the high WW premium should then be deleted, as this is also regulated in the other amendment. Mr Wiersma also asked to continue thinking about other ways, in particular about long-term flex, a new form. We have also discussed this before, also in connection with the own-initiative paper, I thought Mr Van Kent, Mr Van Dijk and I think Mr Grashoff at the time. At that time, Mr Wiersma also said that he would like to explore flex for a long time. Of course, the current proposal has the charm of simplicity, including implementation practice. It is very complicated to maintain if you have to register different contract forms. But I do understand Mr Wiersma's considerations, because precisely in these contracts there is attention to training, to multi-annual development, to career prospects, to sustainable employability. For example, agreements have been made with the collective agreement of the supermarkets. It does make it more complicated for the execution. We can't do it in the current bill. However, I understand Mr Wiersma's request so that he asks me to explore what could be done in the future. I am prepared to do so, I say to Mr Wiersma. I'm telling him this. I do not think that any questions have been asked about the abolition of the sector classification, but rather about the construction sector and training. The legislative proposal will cancel the sector classification. There are really good reasons for that. The division of the sector is very outdated. There are a lot of lawsuits going on about employers hopping premiums. Such employers prefer to work in a sector where the premium is low. The division of the sector is really out of date. For example, you have three sectors for roofers, namely for sloping roofs, for flat roofs and for sinking roofs. In addition, there is one large business service sector, with 1.2 million employees and hundreds of collective agreements. This simply does not fit anymore and is also increasingly difficult to implement. That is why this sector classification is repealed by the law. This means that there can be surpluses in the sector funds which must now be used up. That is what Mr Heerma, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg said. That is true of the construction. Construction has a surplus of about 60 million one-off, a surplus in such a way that this year the premium has been set to zero. On the other hand, the contribution to the construction sector is falling considerably in structural terms. That is what Mr Heerma himself said. I do not know exactly what the amount is, but the premium is going to be much lower, for the next few years tens of millions lower. Other sectors leave a deficit in the AWf. They're still there, aren't they? So although I like the proposal from the construction sector to reserve the money for schools, I do not see room for that, because we simply have to supplement the deficits. Moreover, in the long term, there really is an advantage for the sector in the form of a lower premium. In addition, Mr Wiersma, as well as Mr Heerma, has ideas for making use of the money for a lifetime, b.B.L., SME business schools, good initiatives that could include these things. Mr Van Weyenberg had another question about the control and enforcement of this point. That's a fair point, also because you're using the payroll chain. Three ways are included in the legislative proposal to maintain and control the correct contribution. First of all, there is the tax administration's regular book search. It checks whether the correct data has just been included in the administration. We've also deliberately added a new thing, a kind of nudging, something from behavioral sciences. I am referring to the fact that the nature of the contract must be stated on the pay slip. So that means that the employee on the pay slip gets to see what kind of contract he has. That makes sure employees can check it too, because if you have a temporary contract and you have a fixed contract on your paycheck, you know something's going on and then you have a discussion with your boss. A difference between the wage declaration and the pay slip is almost certainly caused by conscious human action, as it is often the same software that provides data. In order to prevent abuse, there are also four situations where the high premium still has to be paid retroactively, for example if the contract is terminated in the probationary period or if many more hours are worked. And if the employer does not correct the premium himself, then he may be forced to do so by the Tax Administration. There are also high fines on frauds with the WW premium. If there is falsehood in writing, and that is what it is all about, then even jail time can be the result. That is also false in writing, and that is a serious criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u411	Thank you for these answers from the Minister, but I'll just take care here, I'll be honest. Because the interests are great and it's big money. Not everyone checks what's written on his paycheck every month. Maybe you're even being put on the wrong track when it seems to be "fixed" while in practice it's not in the contract yet. I would like to ask you at some point to hear a little more about this enforcement from the Minister, what can be done in public and what can be done in confidence if necessary. I don't really like that at all, but I understand you don't want to tell me about enforcement. And very specifically, I had asked about the retrospective mutations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u412	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u413	I really think that's a big risk, so I'd really like to hear more about that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u414	Then it is about corrections in the wage declaration that employers make with retroactive effect. It's true that you can. These can be changed. In the jargon, it's called a correction message. It is not the case that employers are allowed to change the high premium into the low premium with retroactive effect. This can only be done if the employer has made a mistake and the employee already had a fixed contract. Of course, if employers are going to make sneaky corrections, that is suspicious. The Tax Administration shall draw up correction reports and may include those data in its risk analysis. An employer would therefore be rather foolish to systematically change the high premium with retroactive effect into the low premium, because then you see those correction messages in the risk approach rising. But this is a point which Mr Van Weyenberg is right to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u415	I would ask the Minister to think about a way in which he can involve the Chamber at some point in how this is done in practice. Suppose I, as an employer with three staff, made a correction because, for example, after two years, I gave someone a fixed contract: "it was fixed last two years." The employee is not harmed in itself, but the government and the taxpayer are. I would really like to know whether this has been somewhat tight, because even one correction can just be about big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u416	I intended to include this in the so-called new alert letter, which I will send before the summer, about the fraud risks at UWV and SVB. Of course, this is in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u417	Are you going to a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u418	And soon you will also receive a letter about the follow-up to the UWV fraud. Mr Heerma asked about the future of the disaster settlement. Mr Bruins also mentioned the importance of this. Mr Heerma was right to point out that it will no longer be possible for sectors themselves to bear the costs of the current regime and the reduction of working time. This is now being done through the WW sector premium, but it is being abolished. If a calamity regime is introduced in the future, there will be no more sectoral solidarity. I am talking to the social partners about this. If Mr Heerma has any suggestions for that, I would very much like to hear them. I would like to point out that even without the division of the sector there can be a crisis settlement and also a form of organised solidarity, but at the level of the whole economy. This also means that the solidarity between small and large employers, which Mr Heerma considered important, remains. Mrs Van den Brenn asked about the lower regulation of the WW premium differentiation. As I mentioned earlier, I will also send versions that have been online for internet consultation to the Chamber. In this lower regulation we will, among other things, establish a number of mechanisms to prevent circumvention of the low premium, i.e. fraud. I have just spoken to Mr Van Weyenberg about this. In addition, the lower regulations contain a number of technical provisions for the purpose of feasibility and enforcement, for example that employers should include the employment contract in their payroll records if they pay the low premium. I have drawn up these rules in close cooperation with the UWV and the Tax Administration. They have been deported for internet consultation, so other parties have responded to it. We are now processing these comments. That version can be sent to your room. Mr President, I am almost at the end; the block other than WAB. Mr Bruins asked whether the Chamber could still comment on the lower regulation at the SAB. The lower regulations, with the exception of the AMvB on payroll and pension, have already been online for internet consultation before Christmas. I am currently studying the comments and making changes if necessary. For the sake of time and feasibility, I would like to clarify to employers on 1 July the precise requirements in the wage declaration for the WW premium differentiation, because otherwise it is difficult to implement........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I therefore propose a practical solution, if Mr Bruins agrees with me. I'll send the Internet consultation versions to the Chamber next week. Then you will have time to ask me any questions in the AA that is already on the agenda. So you'll get those versions next week. I believe that this has brought me to the end of the questions I have been asked. Then I would very much like to thank all the officials who are here and elsewhere in the building who have worked very hard over the past few months to work out and implement this legislation for their hard work and speed. Salute also for the quality!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u419	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I'll keep it short. We are now working exactly eleven hours; eleven hours ago I was here as well. I would like to begin by thanking all the people of the ministry for their commitment. I know they're good. I remember that from my previous position... and that they're always working hard. I don't appreciate the Minister's poetry, Mr. President. I have to tell you the truth. I thought your poem was really much prettier, much prettier, absolutely. That's what we started the day off with. Thanks, however, to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. This Labour Market Balance Act I've also started with it I really have a number of improvements in terms of flex duration and transition fee from day one. But the law is also known as the law, where my group remains a deterioration, namely the relaxation of the right of dismissal. But let me start with the improvements. One of these improvements is to make payroll constructions more expensive, making them as they were meant to be. I am glad that the coalition sees that as well and that together with a motion we can ask the Minister to do this properly. We agree on the objective, namely that pension costs should also correspond to those of colleagues in the workplace. That is why I am withdrawing our amendment. 32 in. That is an amendment that we have tabled together with GroenLinks and the SP. We will also withdraw our own-initiative proposal, which is still pending. We believe that a joint motion will send a strong signal. The Minister's answers also give reason to believe that we can work on this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u421	The Gijs van Dijk amendment (Doc. 32) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u422	Then there's the one bizarre measure, the five-month probationary period. I believe that today we have seen with each other, with the coalition and with the minister, that we simply do not continue to do so. So we won't talk about that anymore. Then the discharge. That is, I think, the biggest discussion, and there is also the biggest dispute between my group and several opposition groups on the one hand and the coalition and the cabinet on the other. So I would like to call on the Minister to take a closer look at that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are conflicting noises or that Maximising the dismissal allowance at the cumulation ground has a positive or negative effect on the position of workers;]] [[considers that it is important to clarify the impact of the Maximation on workers for the introduction of the cumulation ground;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent investigation into which form of cumulation ground (with or without maximation) strengthens the position of workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u423	That remains the main point of dispute. In this way, the balance sheet for the Labour Party is also negative. Mr. Chairman. There is also a discussion that we should actually tackle all kinds of phony constructions, including contracting. The Minister also said something about this. He's in the middle of a reconnaissance. I would ask the Chamber to give the following ruling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are signs that forms of contracting are being used as a new construction for the evasion of working conditions;]] [[Whereas the Labour Market Act improves the position of payroll workers;]] [[considers that workers working through contracts should also be sure of equal working conditions as fellow workers;]] [[refers to forms of contract aimed at the evasion of equal work to reject equal pay,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u424	Mr. Chairman. I had a little debate with the Minister on education and the exception that is made legally for it. I took the letter from the Minister of 9 July 2018. He really speaks of "36 months" and not "unlimited." So I would like to have a reply in the second term of the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude as I started here: let us finally do something about the protection and position of all workers in the Netherlands. That is urgently needed, so let's move quickly on legislation for the position ofzzp'ers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u425	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Also thanks to all the employees of the Ministry who have worked hard on this law for over a year in recent months. It is a very thick package and also a very comprehensive law. We are right to pay a great deal of attention to this today, because it is part of legislation, especially legislation of this magnitude. I thank them for all the work, and in particular for the extremely readable documents. This is very technical matter, but with a great impact. A good readability of the documents ensures that we can do our work better, so thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for a number of specific commitments he has made. For example, he has promised to consult with the ACM. I think together with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.................................................................................................................................... We have talked about interpreters in the past. In fact, there is one organization that hires them to the government. Today it was also specifically about photojournalists. In my view, it is really time to give the competition authority more room there, but it is also, of course, about legislation, about whether there is a legal basis on which they can do so. Then there is the question of whether people can also effect their right as a call force. You can put it on paper, but can they do it? That remains, I think, a struggle, because then you make yourself vulnerable. I was pleased with the Minister's appeal. I appreciate people who sometimes dare to do that bravely. I would like to stress that the trade union movement can also help with this. I am pleased that the Minister is going to pay explicit attention to this in his communication. The same applies to his incentive for employers to actually terminate those dormant employment contracts before 1 January 2020. They have no interest at all in prolonging it, even though it is affecting their employees. Mr. Chairman. This law is part of a large package. The Minister was right to say that. There is a connection with education, with pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness, which fortunately has taken a really big step, and with the self-employed file, but this law really brings things into balance. On a number of points, motions will be tabled by colleagues on my behalf. For example, Mr Heerma is also tabling a motion on my behalf asking the government to look closely at the broadcasting sector and, in particular, what happens internally with constructions involving contracting. Then there are two amendments concerning 48 million and 12 million respectively for training, with the first 48 million focusing on SMEs and other 12 million on a number of seasonal sectors. I think that is an extremely valuable interpretation of the funds that have been released. Mr. Chairman. We talked a long time about payrollers' pensions. I am a little disappointed, however, let me be honest with you about this: that parties which appear to be partly very close to this law sometimes indicate one specific element that may not be able to do so. I'd be sorry to hear that. I think we should find each other here. I have also seen in today's debate that there have also been some important steps towards opposition parties. I am thinking in particular of probation. I am also happy to finish with this, because I like to end with an optimistic view that we have been able to find each other around the pensions and the payroll. I asked in my speech whether we could not tighten up these rules a bit, namely by tightening them up so that it is clear that we are really trying to reduce competition on working conditions to the maximum in a workable way. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that payroll workers will soon be entitled to an adequate pension in which, if they are not members of the client's pension scheme, the payroll employer must fulfil the conditions laid down by general administrative measure;]] [[Considers that pension is an important condition of employment and that the prevention of competition on working conditions and the provision of an adequate pension scheme should be a priority when drawing up the general measure of governance;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these objectives are guiding the development of the general measure of governance and that a payroll employer is required by the appropriate pension scheme to:]] [[at least pay the average employer's contribution in the Netherlands;]] [[to provide for an old-age and survivors' pension;]] [[no waiting time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Weyenberg, Pieter Heerma, Gijs van Dijk, Van Kent, Smeulders, Wiersma and Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u427	In doing so, the four coalition groups sharpened their proposal that they had included in their coalition agreement. The three proposers of the initiative law do the same. I appreciate the gesture and confidence of these three parties. I had quiet hopes that it might have applied to the whole law, but let me end with this positive piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u429	Mr. Chairman. The lesser aspects of this debate were, of course, about the clear relaxation of the right of dismissal and also about the reduction of the remuneration for dismissal. That was about the three years that people have to wait for a permanent contract, where it's been two years. It was also about the long-cherished desire to automatically transfer zero-hour contracts to a fixed contract once the three months have been reached. The SP is disappointed that this debate failed on these three issues. But this will probably be possible in the future if it becomes apparent that this is necessary. Of course, what we're happy with is the discharge from day one. We are also pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg has given much thought to this with the previous cooperation with the Labour Party and the GroenLinks on the initiative law to finally regulate it for payrollers in such a way that they are treated equally to workers who do the same work and thereby eliminate unfair competition. That cooperation was fantastic, but also the cooperation today with a lot of other parties with which we have achieved that goal together. The SP is very pleased that we are organising with each other that this is how this is going to happen. On the 150-day probation period, I won't get much more words dirty, because it's gone in the garbage can. That too is good news. On the first points, we have all tabled amendments. Considering everything, the SP will make its vote on this law depend on the vote on those amendments. If you surprise us, we may surprise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u430	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply, in particular for the positive opinion on the amendment on probation. This is indeed the first amendment I have accepted. I think it is very positive that we can work together from left to right in this Chamber to stop bad plans. We also see that the cabinet takes the problems of the labour market seriously, but we are far from there, even if this law is passed. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has strong doubts as to whether the measures taken by this law are sufficient, especially in terms of timing. We expect this law to result in an even greater increase in the number ofzzp'ers and we find that worrying. In addition, GroenLinks considers it unwise that the cabinet simultaneously chooses to relax the right of dismissal. This increases uncertainty for workers, while it is not yet sufficiently clear whether this will actually lead to more permanent jobs. Without measures relating tozzp and with the relaxation of dismissal law, this law does not contribute sufficiently to a labour market in balance as far as GroenLinks is concerned. On Tuesday, when the House votes on the law and the amendments, it will be very difficult for us to vote in favour, at least if our amendment to remove the relaxation of the right of dismissal from this law is not adopted. This is despite the good work of all the officials of the Ministry, who have already rightly received compliments from previous speakers and from the Minister. I want to thank them for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u432	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u433	Mr President, thank you. Are we gonna see it? That was my hope in the first term... that this bill will go through the Chamber cheering? I'm going to look into this room and I haven't discovered the cheering yet, while there was a lot of cheering on a lot of points. There was the analysis of the things we see that need to be better. We say: yes, there are a lot of good things going on in the labour market, but more and more things depend on so many changes in the labour market that you also have to adapt things. We agree on that, too. Then it is a pity to note that a number of parties have already made it so clear that they will not support that law. There were certainly two outspoken hands in this debate and it would be nice if they would come back. They were about payroll and probation. I'm on three motions. I very much welcome the shared support in this Chamber for training. I have a fine motion for that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Labour Market Act reduces the differences between fixed and flex work and thus provides greater security for workers;]] [[Whereas it is also important for the security and perspective of workers to continue to develop during their careers;]] [[Whereas expenditure on the transition compensation scheme for SMEs is lower than the resources made available in the government agreement;]] [[calls on the government of the remaining funds to make structural use of EUR 48 million to support employers in promoting the learning culture of SMEs, including business schools, retraining, retraining and retraining, so that workers remain sustainable in the rapidly changing labour market and to make SMEs attractive to job seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wiersma, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u434	I've got two more, Mr. Chairman, that's why. But now I'm gonna do it very slowly, because we're gonna have to make it to 11:00. One of these two motions is specifically focused on the attention we have requested for seasonal work. I asked the Minister whether thinking on this matter would not stand still, because there are legitimate concerns of important employers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of providing seasonal work for employers and workers, given that certain activities depend on climatic conditions, or are otherwise seasonal, such as in agriculture, horticulture and sports;]] [[Whereas employers with functions which cannot be performed throughout the year with the introduction of the Labour Market Act for climatic reasons may experience bottlenecks in balance;]] [[calls on the Government to continue discussions with the social partners on specific bottlenecks in seasonal work and to consider with them the possibility of finding tailor-made solutions for a sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u435	I'll hand you the motion on paper. Yeah, I gotta put in another word. I'll put it right in there. I'm gonna have to check it out. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have another motion which responds to the call for thought not to stand still when it comes to the balance between fixed and flex. Balance is also, for example, making long-term flex more possible and also offering some more space for that. I urge you to explore that. The Minister said some nice things about it. I'd like to confirm that with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aim of WW premium differentiation is to encourage employers to offer contracts to employees for an indefinite period of time, as these contracts provide more security for employees;]] [[noting that the government is therefore proposing a high WW premium for fixed-term contracts and a low WW premium for open-ended contracts;]] [[Whereas WW premium differentiation according to the nature of the contract represents a major change in the premium system that UWV and Tax Administration are required to implement;]] [[Considering that long-term contracts combined with agreements on training and development are increasingly common;]] [[Whereas, by means of premium differentiation in the WW, a hard separation between fixed and flexible contracts may persist;]] [[Whereas a long-term temporary contract may be an intermediate form which can mitigate the possible hard separation;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibilities and expected effects of a separate category in the premium differentiation for long-term temporary contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u436	Mr President, thank you. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers and, in particular, all the officials, the Ministry and all those people who have worked so hard on this, and all those people who have been involved in the internet consultation to make the labour market more beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u437	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u438	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and, of course, the entire staff for the first-term response and the work that has been done. During his first term, the Minister tried to convince us that he is trying to find a balance on the labour market on both the employers' side and the workers' side. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: the law has a number of positive aspects, such as the WW premium differentiation and the protection of call forces. We welcome that. On the other hand, there are a number of things that my group does not agree with. Think of the limitation of the structure of the transition fee and the relaxation of the dismissal right by the unnecessary outburst of the single fact construction with the cumulation rule. And of course, last but not least, the chain determination from two to three years. We have had a brief interruption on this subject with the Chamber during the first term. I think that was with colleague Van Weyenberg. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present legislative proposal extends the maximum period of the temporary employment chain from two to three years;]] [[having regard to the Council of State's expectation that this measure will result in workers being employed for a longer period of time on the basis of a fixed-term contract, without increasing the likelihood of a fixed-term contract;]] [[Whereas the proposal does not clarify how the extension of the chain regime will lead to an increase in contracts of employment for an indefinite period;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an inventory of this measure within two years and to forward it to the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u439	Mr. Chairman. I also mentioned it during my contribution: if you want to make sure that employers are willing to give people a permanent job and that employees get more security at a permanent job, then you just have to get started with pay-as-you-go in case of illness. You don't have to go to a lot of trouble for that. Actually, you should implement the coalition agreement, and that's what DENK says! That says a lot. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement states that the second year of the pay-as-you-go obligation is to be abolished for companies with fewer than 25 employees;]] [[having also noted that the Government appears to wish to depart from the government agreement and to maintain the second year of the payment obligation;]] [[Whereas a real abolition of the second year of payment is preferable to an unclear and possibly ineffective system of subsidies on private insurance policies, which will also impose additional burdens on state finances;]] [[calls on the Government to fully implement the government agreement on this issue by reducing the pay-by-pay period for small employers (up to 25 employees) from two to one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u440	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the many questions. You may have noticed that I was not equally happy with every response, but I am very pleased that the Minister is nevertheless trying to comply with the amendments we have tabled. With two of those three, I could live with that. But for me there really is one point that remains, and I have just indicated this in an interruption. That's the bump for the older employee. I'm gonna try one more time anyway. I am talking about the older employee of the "Fifty-seven," 58 or 59 years old, who comes very much between the wheels, because he is simply mentally and physically unable to get back to work, regardless of the opportunities you offer him. My question to the Minister is whether he is open to an amendment. There's talk to me about age. There's also talk to me about the amount of that fee. But we still want to accommodate that group of people. As a SGP, we really think that as a government you should be a safety net for the really weak in society, and I think you are talking about this category of people. So my question to the Minister is: is he open to an amendment to do something about this? And then there's talk to me about what's going on. For that is really the essence for me to ask whether I can go along with this law or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u441	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u442	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term response. In the first term I thought a few times: so, that was a lot of nuance when it comes to the assessment of this law. By the way, not all those who did so are still present. But I have also seen opposition parties who were keen on parts with which they disagree, but who have also looked at the points where the coalition was willing to listen and move along. I think that is why the debate also had good moments, for example when it comes to the probationary period. The opposition parties have been hoping for that for a long time. I am also thinking of the long search on the field of payrolls. There it is that, in my view, a joint wish has found each other reasonable in a rather far-reaching motion by Mr Van Weyenberg. Following this debate, I would like to make two more motions. One has to do with seasonal work, and the other has to do with the constructions in broadcasting. I had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Dijk. Mr Van Dijk has also tabled a motion on this subject. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in sectors where demand for work is irregularly distributed over the year due to seasonal and weather conditions, temporary employment contracts are more frequent;]] [[noting that the Labour Market Balance Act is likely to affect the deployment of fixed-term contracts in these sectors;]] [[Whereas a transition to more sustainable employment contracts can be helped and supported by additional opportunities for training staff;]] [[calls on the government to meet the agricultural, catering and recreational sectors with an investment in the training of employees of 12 million per year through a reduction in wage costs for bbl-spots over the next five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u443	Then there is the second motion, on structures in the broadcasting sector. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of employers are trying to reduce the cost of personnel by using structures in structural work where temporary workers are long-term in the first stage of temporary employment and do not build up rights;]] [[noting that, in some cases, workers are even sent on "holidays" in the WW in order to prevent the building up of rights;]] [[noting that other forms of triangular relations, such as contracting, are sometimes only used to save costs;]] [[whereas the Inspection SZW and the FNV indicate that employees often do not want to give an explanation against their employer because of the dependency relationship;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the sectors in which such constructions are used and the cost advantages of the various constructions, and to explore ways in which such constructions can be combated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u444	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister, his staff and all those behind the scenes who helped to answer the questions. After eleven and a half hours of debate, you have something. Then you'll have a substantial modernisation of the labour market, but... it's only complete if we've taken care of thezzp part as well. That is why I am once again calling for this to be taken up and dealt with as quickly as possible. I am pleased that the five-month probation period has been removed during the debate. My group will therefore support the amendment tabled by GroenLinks, who wants to regulate this. I have also put my name on motions on a pay-rolling pension scheme, additional money for training in SMEs and EUR 12 million for seasonal sectors. I myself have one motion, which I announced in the first term, on the calamity settlement. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the system of unworkable weather and the reduction of working hours are important arrangements for economic operators to cope with circumstances which cannot be considered as a risk to their business;]] [[Whereas the aim of the calamity regime is to eliminate the differences between the two current arrangements and that the cabinet is in talks with the social partners and UWV;]] [[noting that the sectoral breakdown for financing the first six months of unemployment after the entry into force of the Labour Market Act will no longer be used in balance and that this affects the functioning of the current schemes;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with the social partners with a view to rapidly reaching a single low-threshold emergency settlement with a uniform, as short a waiting period as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u445	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate all the officials who have worked on this. I'd like to see the next law as soon as possible, thezzp law. I can't wait to talk about that. I'd like to ask the Minister for a favor. Could we get all the amendments and their appreciation in writing? 'Cause there's so many of them. I hope that's possible. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to assess whether the legal practice in the law of dismissal has sufficient scope for granting fair compensation in the event of the employer's culpable actions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the position of older people and, in particular, those over 60 in the labour market is still very worrying;]] [[Whereas the Labour Market Bill does not contain in balance any specific measures aimed at older workers or jobseekers;]] [[believes that older people should, in particular, have access to education and personal support in obtaining and maintaining employment and income security before retirement;]] [[invites the government to step up labour market policies for older people on these and other relevant issues, and to report to the Chamber before Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-53]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u446	Mr. Chairman. Old is wrong in this cabinet. The weaker position on the labour market and their job opportunities are not taken into account. A realistic transition fee to close a pension gap or bridge a period of lower income is withheld from them. We will therefore not support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u447	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. That means that we are on the side of the Chamber at the end of the second term. Thirteen motions have been tabled. I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u448	I'd like to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u449	How many minutes do you need? Ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u450	Yeah, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u451	Then I'll suspend the meeting until 5:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u452	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u453	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Chamber after a whole day, twelve hours, talking to each other about the Labour Market Act in balance. I'm gonna go see the spokesmen in conjunction with the motions. Mr Gijs van Dijk has the motion in part No. 42 on the study of the cumulation ground. In my first term, I have already said that experts, namely the Council of State, the Council of Justice and experts, shared their views on the cumulation ground at the hearing. This weighting has therefore taken place. Secondly, the motion assumes that there is a relationship between whether or not to dissolve and pay compensation. But that is not how the law is meant and set up, as I explained in my first term. That's why I have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 43 is not a request to me. It is a sympathetic motion, but I cannot judge it, because it is not addressed to me. I understand the objective of this motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk. The motion in part No. 44 on payroll and pensions I judge Chamber. Excuse me. I have to come back to Mr Gijs van Dijk's question on the definition of the supply chain in education. I could have expressed myself more precisely in relation to the measure which exempts temporary workers in primary education and special education from the definition of the chain in the event of the replacement of a sick teacher. So a little mea culpa from my side. I did not want to give the impression that the unions have requested the legal exception in the SAB itself. It is an elaboration of the measure announced in the coalition agreement. However, the view that there is a problem in replacing sick teachers is widely shared. The signals are also known. In addition, in June 2018, the social partners in primary education, including the educational associations, asked me, in anticipation of the exceptions in the WAB, to exclude the replacements for illness in the chain determination for up to 36 months. In doing so, they have supported the fact that substitute workers in primary education are a special group, and such an exception is justified. I have granted this request, allowing collective bargaining parties to limit the exemption to 36 months. I worked it out in the WAB. Social partners remain free to determine by collective agreement that the 36-month chain determination applies. Let me say this for the sake of caution towards Mr Gijs van Dijk. Then the motion to part No. Mr Wiersma, Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins on education. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 46 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma will focus on seasonal work. It calls for discussions with the social partners on specific bottlenecks in seasonal work. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. The motion in part No. 47 by Mr Wiersma concerns a separate category in the premium differentiation. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. Mr Kuzu's motion for a resolution 48 invites the Government to take stock of the operation within two years and to forward this inventory to the Court as soon as possible. We're going to evaluate this measure anyway. Two years is very short. So if I can read it as a request to make a progress report after two years, I'd like to give the motion judgment Chamber. Otherwise, you can't say anything meaningful about it. I see Mr Kuzu raising his thumb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u454	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u455	So he's okay with it. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu's 49th report deals with payment of wages in the event of illness. On the contrary, I am very pleased with the agreements I have had with VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands on a real solution to this problem of many employers. Even the employers have asked me to question the government agreement agreements. I did. So I don't think it would be wise for me to go back to the coalition agreement with the employers. Nor is it a solution to the problem of pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 50 by Mr Heerma, Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins are talking about 12 million for bbl-spots in the seasonal sectors: agriculture, catering and recreation. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. The Pieter Heerma/Van Weyenberg motion in part No. 51 is about constructions around temporary workers. In the first period, I have already indicated that this is coming very quickly. In fact, I intend to carry out a policy review of Article 1 of my budget, which includes the labour market and also the WAADI. That is why I shall leave this motion to the House. The judgment on the Bruins/Pieter Heerma motion in part No. I leave it to the Chamber to work on the matter as soon as possible, in consultation with the social partners. In the Van Brenn motion on part No. 53 the Government is invited to assess whether the legal practice in the law of dismissal has sufficient scope to grant fair compensation in the event of culpable acts. As I said, fair compensation is possible in the event of serious culpability. It's gotta be a mouse hole. That's what it's meant to be. This was investigated by UvA/Hugo Sinzheimer Institute at the end of 2017. I had that in my head, and that's why I had to pick up that information. It concerns the criterion of serious culpable behaviour or failure to act. It has been examined whether the criterion is applied only in exceptional cases. In published judgments, a fair remuneration has been paid in 77 cases of dismissal. Almost all cases can be grouped into the following five categories, with in many cases a combination. The employer criticises the employee's functioning or behaviour, then acts in an escalating manner and directs to termination rather than another solution; the employer does not make sufficient efforts to normalise relations after previous legal proceedings between the parties; the employer knowingly does not pay wages, sometimes even after a judgment by the court; there is a serious breach of the obligation of reintegration, whereby the employee is put under unacceptable pressure; harassment by the employer. You will see that this evaluation has taken place. You can also see that these are very specific categories, but they are also a wider number of categories that are applied. In 1,000 cases this happened 77. Against this background and with this information, I would advise against this motion, because this information is also available. I have two more commitments to make. I come back to Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the maintenance of the premium differentiation from the first term. I would inform the Chamber about the maintenance of the WW premium differentiation. I mentioned that in the alert letter. Of course, I shouldn't have done that, because the alert letter is about UWV and SVB and this concerns enforcement by the Tax Administration. But the Tax Administration has its own reports for the Chamber, which also includes enforcement. That's the half-yearly report. As a tax spokesman, Mr Weyenberg reads them all: 1,200 pages. But I'm going to talk to the Tax Administration and UWV about how best to inform your Chamber about maintaining the premium differentiation, as part of wider enforcement. During the first term, Mr Van Kent asked for an understanding of the various employers' contributions in the different sectors using payrolling, and to include them in the concept of the AMvB that I promised to send to the Chamber in the short term. I can do that, especially with the big sectors. Research conducted by Panteia in 2015 on payrolling shows that payroll forces are used in all sectors. Given the limited scope of the investigation, no assumptions can be made about the intensity by sector, also because this may have changed since 2015. That is why I will mainly give insight into the employers' contributions in a number of large sectors known to be payroll workers, as an annex to the AMvB on payroll pensions. There is also a request from Mr Stoffer and a motion from Mrs van Brenn, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 54, on the position of older workers in the labour market. Mr Stoffer has tabled an amendment on the right of dismissal and the transition fee, clearly stating that he is looking for a way to do something. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Stoffer have tabled a motion on this point. Right now, I can't think of anything, but I'm gonna think about it, because I'm taking the call seriously. If you give me time to think, I'll come back to that. In any case, Mrs Van Brenn asked to receive an overview of the amendments and of my appreciation for them before the votes. I'll get back to you on that one anyway. That is what I want to do, and I will give an opinion on this motion. But let me nest for a moment on a possible solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u456	If it's okay, we'd be voting next Tuesday, so that commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u457	I'm trying to get it done by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u458	Okay. The judgment on the motion in part No. So we get 54 in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u459	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u460	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate, which lasted 12 hours. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament and, of course, the officials who have worked on this bill. I would like to thank the stenography service, the clerks, the messengers and the people who have followed the debate in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-8.u461	We will vote on the legislative proposal, the motions tabled and the amendments on Tuesday.
