ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let's move on to the order of the day. We start with the VSO Experiment flexible teaching times primary education, with Mr Heerema of the VVD as the first speaker, but only after I warmly welcomed the Minister. Good morning. Mr. Heerema. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have had a written discussion on flexible teaching times and we have seen that the Minister does not want to reverse the decision so that flexible teaching times can continue to be used in education. I am therefore tabling a motion, together with a number of colleagues, to make it possible for the system of flexible teaching times to continue. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 'experiment flexible teaching times' have been particularly successful in a number of schools, with parents, pupils, teachers and school very satisfied;]] [[Whereas the quality of education in these schools does not differ from other schools, which did not lose attention and time for as time-consuming as the 'experiment flexible teaching times';]] [[calls on the Government to make it legally possible for schools to deviate from centrally established holidays and the five-day school week, under conditions to be laid down, such as the assent of the participation council, taking into account the quality of education and the philosophy of education;]] [[calls on schools which are now participating in the experiment to make use of these opportunities in advance of this legislative amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	I know the VVD mostly as a party of enforcement. Now they want to anticipate legislation things again. I don't know the party like that. But something quite different: I understand that part of the schools participating in the experiment require bizarre voluntary parental contributions from €5,000 to €10,000 for a kind of flexible total package. Can I assume that, if Mr Heerema wants this to continue, we will at least put a stop to this kind of parental contribution? That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think it depends on what's in that parent's contribution. If I've understood correctly, I've been to some of those schools. For example, there are all the meals in school. That is a completely different system and that is why you cannot compare it with the normal education system, but with a new system. That is why it was also an experiment, in which higher school contributions are indeed requested. That is not desirable, but if a school does not ask for it purely and simply as a provision for, for example, extra lessons and such, but can also offer a total package of extracurricular activities, food under school time and so on, I can imagine that a school could go about that. I think we should always see how we can keep that parent contribution as low as possible, but that is up to the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Meals, I get. €3 or €5 per day, 150 days in the year, €500 I can still imagine, but €5,000 to €10,000 not. Then we're working on segregation, aren't we? Can I agree with Mr Heerema that that really goes down when we allow this kind of scenes in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	There are nine schools that have participated in this experiment, with all different contributions. I think it would be wise to look at what would be an acceptable contribution, even if we are not talking about it. I think it is wise that, if we make this possible, we should see how we can keep it as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	€5,000 to €10,000; that will be a big caviar lunch! I have another question. The Minister's reaction also shows that in some places there were concerns about the quality of education. In fact, that has been the reason for the Minister to say: we are not going to expand this experiment; in fact, we are going to end the experiment. Mr Heerema says, in a sub-section of his motion, a number of conditions, including the quality of education. How are we gonna do that? How are we going to say in advance: this school can do this, because this school can keep the quality of education in order? Because until now, it appears that there are indeed schools where the quality of education has been affected by the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's right. There are schools that have done very well and there are schools that have doubts. I understand the Minister's consideration, but I think it is too great an intervention to stop the experiment for all schools. There are schools that are doing very well, with a renewed educational concept, where flexibility is much greater than in mainstream education. If these schools then do well according to the inspection, then I find it crazy to put that stop, because that means that you are dumping the children, the parents and the school, which is working on a new system. So I suggest we just let it go on in the schools where it goes well. But if the quality of education is not in order, then you have to question it and then, as far as I am concerned, you have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Kwint. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Heerema says that the children and the parents will be hurt, but I think they will be more damaged when the quality of education deteriorates. I shall come back to Mr Bruins. With an parental contribution of €5,000 to €10,000, it is not so difficult to achieve good educational outcomes. If you halve the classes and tutor all the kids, you'll see you get amazing results. What does Mr Heerema say about the conclusions of, for example, the education inspection that quality has indeed suffered in some places, except perhaps some good experiences on work visits? What does Mr Heerema have to say about sound arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	I share the view that things did not go well in some places, but that's what I just said. As far as I'm concerned, the experiment doesn't go through there either. I agree with the conclusion drawn by Mr Kwint, namely that the education inspection has seen that there have been mistakes in quality. I'll share that with him. But there are also places where things have gone very well, and I do not want to dwindle those schools with this decision by the Minister. That's why we're looking for a legal guarantee so it can keep going. And yes, a contribution is requested. To be honest, I don't think that's crazy in a new system, where you also have to test how it's going to work out. But now that it's getting a little more resistant, we need to see how we can get it as low as possible. It's a choice from the school, but as a room, we're allowed to like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to tabling a motion which will call for less commotion, I suspect. It's a very reasonable motion, but I'll just read it to her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas legal standards on school hours should serve the responsibility of schools to organise a good supply of education, including in view of the obligation to provide appropriate education to pupils in need of additional support;]] [[noting that the legal obligations relating to school days and holidays do not in themselves directly relate to the quality of education and that, for example, a legal deviation from the hourly standard is provided for in the MBO;]] [[calls on the Government to explore, in the light of experience gained from the current pilot schools, the need for a legal exemption from the compulsory number of school days and holiday weeks surrounded by qualitative guarantees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. Experimenting space in education is good. For example, teachers and school leaders have the opportunity to renew education according to their own professional understanding. But there is no doubt that experimentation should never be at the expense of educational quality. It is about the future of children. In the experiment flexible teaching times, schools were given the opportunity to use centrally established holidays for education and to deviate from the five-day school week. That is of course very useful for all parents who try to combine work and care. But the experiment was renewed and continued for five years longer than originally intended. Of the 11 schools that started the experiment, three had already stopped. The quality stove was looking backwards. Major measures had to be taken to ensure that children were still able to receive adequate education. Five years ago, only one of the schools met the conditions of the experiment. I mentioned it just now: a number of schools asked for a very high parental contribution of between €5,000 and €10,000 for the flexible total package. They have become schools for rich, working parents, but every child, every child, has the right to good and free education as prescribed by international treaties. Mr. Chairman. We were well into the extension and it was high time the referee put an end to this unfair football game. It was at the expense of those children who are not so privileged that they reach the finish line on their slippers, children who do not have rich, working parents. Here, the future of children must be weighed against the convenience of parents. Every month we talk here in the Chamber about combating segregation in education. Here's an opportunity, a shot for open purpose. The Christian Union chooses the future of children, fair opportunities and good education. There is already a great deal of room within the current legislation. It's called freedom of education. I congratulate the Minister on his decisiveness and my group supports the decision to stop this experiment which, in fact, offers an advantage to the children of wealthy parents in particular, especially the wealthy parents themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	This experiment has applied to a limited number of schools. We are now asking for it to be legally possible to extend it to many more schools. Then, when the quality of education is just right, they can take this kind of step for more freedom of education and more experimental space and decide on holidays and on school hours. At a time when many more schools can make use of this, so are you in favour of it not just the schools you mention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	As I said, there is already a great deal of room within the current legislation. There's no need to change the law. A great deal can already be done on the basis of the freedom of establishment of the school, the freedom of establishment of the education system. This experiment, which has gone on for much longer than intended, has shown that a large proportion of schools could not maintain the quality of education. It's really nice for kids who get it on their slippers. It's nice for parents who can pay extra. But the children who need it to simply get proper, quality education will suffer. I am not prepared to use our legislation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. This brings us to the end of the parliamentary term. I'm looking at the minister. Can he respond immediately? That's the case. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr President, for the invitation to speak on this subject, although I feel somewhat hampered by the fact that it has to be in a VSO. This is a subject that you should take more time together for, because it depends a lot. Two motions have been tabled and some assessments have been made of what has happened in the past few years. Those are different assessments. It should be made clear that a number of years ago a right and reason was chosen to start an experiment to see if more room could be made available for schools in relation to the time of education, in particular when it comes to the departure of established holiday weeks and the possibility of the four-day school week, more than is now possible under the law. My predecessor was in the situation of having to take stock of that experiment. The approach of the experiment is: put in the law that makes it possible to enter into the experiment with a number of schools, which you determine at the end of the experiment whether it is really justified to take the next step. The next step is to make it possible for all schools. My predecessor came into a situation where he did not yet have enough information in his hands to draw a clear conclusion. So it was decided to continue the experiment for a number of years. I am now in a situation where there is sufficient information to assess whether it is justified to take the next step. Once again, the next step is that it must then be made possible for all schools. The inspection indicates that there are real risks to the quality of education when introducing flexible teaching times by law. On the basis of what the inspection has advised me and knowing how we have talked about quality and what concerns we have about quality, I have come to the conclusion that it is not justified to take that step. I understand very well that this is a very annoying message for the schools where the quality is in order. They're in there, too. On the other hand, when they decided to take part in this experiment, they also knew that the judgment would not be based on the quality of their school, but on the total, with the aim of making it possible for everyone to do so. For me this is the reason why I had to draw that conclusion in the end, which is also a little bit painy in my heart, because I also understand the advantages that are attached to it. Mr. Chairman. That doesn't mean it's over and out. Next year one gets a full school year to continue in the old way, but with the knowledge that after that year it must be really finished. I didn't stop after that. This week I also sent the Chamber a more detailed letter on room for direction. I intend to use the next year to explore what is already possible within the current space with the schools that are keen to continue. It may also be possible to conclude that for these schools and perhaps for more schools a number of things will be expanded, but I want to do so with all due care. This is about quality of education. This is about equality of opportunity. Those are subjects that are very dear to us all. Mr. Chairman. That is why I would advise against Mr Heerema's motion in respect of item No. 466. I can say to him that what he wants in the coming year, the last year in which the schools concerned can still go ahead as they have been covered in the experiment, can be actively taken into account, as far as I am concerned, in assessing what is wisdom now, in a way that also reflects the legitimate concerns of the quality inspection. So let us do this carefully and not say in advance by means of a Chamber statement "'this is how it is going to happen', without having talked about it further and having determined very precisely what the risks and opportunities are. Looking at my responsibility for the quality of education, I also consider that absolutely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	The motion in part No. 466 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	There is one small but important difference between the Minister's reply and what we are asking for in the motion. He says: it is not wise to make it legally available to everyone. But that's not what we're asking. We put that assurance in the quality of education and the philosophy of education. There is a guarantee that it should be made available to all those who have that quality in order, but not to all schools, because the freedom of education must never be a licence to give poor education. That's what we're looking for. That's what we're looking for. So please reconsider your judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	Looking at the Experiment Law education and what it means for the experiments that are going on, you can draw at the end of such a period it is now even extended for a number of years only one conclusion. You have to ask the question: is it justified to continue? And if you keep going, the next step is to make it accessible to everyone. I can't make that choice. That's why I have to stop this experiment. I can see from your nodding head that you understand that. I need to stop this experiment. But the next step is that I don't say right away: we move on to the order of the day. Because I understand the desire to have flexibility. I share that wish. I also think that we should take a maximum look at what space there is. That's why I want to use this year's space for directing, which is exactly the last year in which they can continue to explore what is possible in a responsible way. Indeed, there are elements in your motion that could be involved. In any case, the schools involved could also be involved. But then we do so in an orderly manner and, at the moment we have done that exploration, we also draw the conclusion with each other which is or is not justified, whether a new experiment should be launched or whether we can make more room for all schools, framed by a number of clear preconditions, of which quality is of course number one. In short, we are all going to explore and discuss this with each other in the coming year. But please, let's be careful with these things. With a motion now offering this space, I find really irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	I think we're a lot closer together, so I don't recognize the qualification. I understand perfectly well that from a legal point of view, we have to stop the experiment. There is no other way. What we are asking for is that legal preparation to ensure that this space is made possible on the basis of educational philosophy and quality. I think you're saying the same thing. So I don't understand that judgment is so negative when we're so close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	Perhaps I misunderstand Mr Heerema, but I have the impression that he draws a conclusion first and then looks at how we're going to set it up. I'd like to do the trajectory carefully first. It would be very nice if the schools that scored well in this experiment would also like to join that leading group to assess what can be done under the current laws and regulations. There are many misunderstandings. There can be much more than people often think. Then we look at what we might want to do more in a responsible way. Which brings me to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	Before you go any further, I think Mr Kwint has a question on the first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	Sure. The Minister was very clear about the experiment. We now have to draw a conclusion, and that conclusion is that it is irresponsible to continue with this in terms of educational quality. Do I understand from his reaction to the motion that he says the same thing about the motion of CDA, D66 and VVD, namely that it would be really irresponsible for the quality of education to do so now and that it would also cause problems with the Experiment Law education because it would be contrary to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	I didn't discourage this motion for nothing. I find this motion formulated in this way irresponsible. I think we should now make a very careful observation that we are stopping the experiment, no matter how annoying it is, because you are not starting an experiment to conclude at the end that you might not have been able to do it. It has raised expectations in some schools. It also worked well in some schools. So I want to keep the good, but I want to do it carefully. We're gonna use the next year to assess what can be done with each other. Then it may also be possible with more schools. That is why I can give Mr Bishop's motion for a resolution Chamber. Actually, that's exactly what I'm saying here. That's how I think we should do it. That is careful, with regard to quality, with regard to equality of opportunity. In this way, I would very much like to have a little more time with the Chamber to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. The motion in part No. 467 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber. The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
