ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u1	The Minister of Justice and Security is on their way, but I welcome you to the First Chamber, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, the Chamber is a little less left than last night! Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiator for this bill. In the meantime, more initiative legislative proposals are being passed here than cabinet legislation. I count my blessings. The insult of the King, majesty desecration, is criminally moved within the Code of Criminal Law and is thus equated with insults of officials and other government servants, with a penalty increase of a third. With the Koopmans/Kuiks amendment, this increase in penalties for members of representative bodies will then be abolished. That is the heart of this proposal in a few sentences. Mr. Chairman. In fact, the PVV wants to move towards an American model, where the limit of freedom of expression is limited only to calling for violence. This eventually creates a resilient, mature society that can take a hit and where groups with long toes don't go to court every once in a while; with which legal crying is a thing of the past, so to speak. From that point of view, this legislative proposal is a very minor extension of that freedom of expression. Since no complaint is required for prosecution, we are and will continue to be condemned to the arbitrariness of the prosecution, which has proved to be regularly pulling on the wrong side of the rope. They dismiss matters that matter, but they also conduct show trials and political processes as soon as they are accepted. The prosecution, for example, prosecuted someone who might not be very flattering, but was still critical of Erdogan. Now that will have been done under the guise of insulting a friendly head of state, but perhaps that is more of a question to the minister who is not there than to the initiator Erdogan has our country, our cabinet but especially our people called for Nazis, Nazis, apes, dogs and a lot of that kind of beautiful statements. How can such a person be seen as a friendly head of state? Maybe we can pass that question on to the minister later. And how can it be seen as a friendly head of state on the basis of Article 166b Code of Criminal Procedure? Then why is the D.A. prosecuting this guy? In other words, what else does a head of state have to do to stop being a friendly head of state and to stop being able to invoke our laws so that the public prosecutor can deal with more useful matters? We think it is a missed opportunity not to include that Article 166b directly in this initiative proposal and to delete it. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are asked to agree to the bill which amends the penalty for insulting our Majesty, foreign heads of state and other public persons or institutions. Articles of the Code of Criminal Law under the chapters...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u6	May I have a moment of silence? The acoustics in this room are pretty good, so if you guys talk loud, we'll all hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u7	Articles of the Code of Criminal Law under the chapters Crimes Against Royal Dignity and Crimes Against Heads of Friends are deleted. In return, the initiator proposes to place insults against the King in Article 267, entitled: Insulted to public authority. That Article 267 is subject to further changes, and that sometimes makes it a puzzle: who can insult who against how many months in prison? That puzzle is asking for some clear answers today. Mr. Chairman. In popular terms, Articles 111 to 113, to be deleted, deal with majesty desecration. "Majestas" was originally the name of the Roman Republic. The Romans were of the opinion that their Majestas should not be offended. Only at a later stage was this Majestas represented by a person, the emperor, who should not be offended. My group notes that the revised Article 267 is still based on a broad understanding of Majestas and majesty. It includes not only the king, his wife and heir to the throne, but also the official in the performance of his duties and a public body or public institution. We appreciate this preservation of tradition. However, the applicant makes an exception for insulting public authority. That will be removed from the Majestas. This is because "public authority" would be too broad and abstract a concept, insulting which is obstructing the public debate. Is there such a barrier? Can the petitioner give an example of a conviction for insulting public authority? We also note that the proposed Article 267 removes an insult to'members of general representative bodies'. We people's representatives will soon be allowed to be offended without increasing the penalty. My group understands that. Honesty commands that politicians are sometimes very good at insulting each other or groups of people. On the other hand, insulting a public body is not deleted. You're trying to imagine something with a "public body." If I'm right, at least that includes provinces and municipalities. But there's people's representatives in there, right? Can the petitioner explain why a people's representative may be insulted against less jail time than the public body he is in? Mr. Chairman. The penalty for insulting the majesty also significantly reduces: from a maximum of five years to four months. Our group is used to letters and phones from those involved in legal changes, but we haven't heard from the king yet. Thanks to an earlier article in the NRC of 22 May 2015, we know that he does not want to stand in the way of the lifting of the ban on majesty desecration. Our head of state doesn't feel offended by this change of law, and that's fancy. Of course, there has been some change since 1881, the year of the introduction of the majesty desecration. Author Verhoeven indicates that the king can now avail himself of other possibilities, such as civil law, the National Information Service and spindoctors. Moreover, this proposal does not outlaw the King. Those who insult him may still receive a prison sentence or a fine, and the king does not have to complain about the insult himself. The present proposal therefore also seems to be a logical follow-up to the case law developed. After all, so often there has been no severe punishment in the case of majesty desecration. The insult added by the Socialist foreman Domela Nieuwenhuis King Willem III, by declaring him "King Gorilla" in 1886, was punished by only six months. Perhaps that was because Willem III was known for the fierce level of his own insults to people's representatives. Luckily, those kinds of expressions on the royal side no longer exist today. That is why this bill fits well with the development of modern kingship. Since the year 2000, a fine has been awarded five times and three times in prison, with a maximum of five months. The judge did not consider the five years referred to in Article 111 to be necessary. The rioter who cried "F*** the king" in 2015 wasn't even prosecuted anymore. This case law could also have tempted the petitioner to retain the articles on majesty desecration, but to adapt them by, for example, reducing the penalty rate. Why didn't the initiator choose to reduce the penalty rate in Articles 111 to 113? Would that not have been much simpler in terms of legislative technique than the route chosen now? Mr. Chairman. In the present circumstances, majesty desecration is no longer a hot item. That's what makes the look go abroad. In this proposed bill, the deletion of Articles 118 and 119 also removes the specific two-year penalty for insulting foreign Heads of State. I've heard it screaming myself. "Johnson killer, oh no, sorry, miller." That was an old-fashioned insult. If you hear the current American president sometimes... The last time someone was prosecuted for insulting a foreign head of state in the Netherlands, it ended with a Sittard sisser. Maintaining Articles 118 and 119 would make sense if we could unfriend a head of state, but that is hardly possible. According to Article 87a, a foreign power is only not a friend if we have an armed conflict with it. But when are we going to have an armed conflict? In this way, all foreign heads of state are our friends. This broad criminality opens the door to foreign heads of state who themselves do not hesitate to send serious insults to the world, to demand the extradition of a Dutchman, for example when a cartoonist makes a striking drawing. If my group sees it right, the deletion of 118 and 119 means that an extradition request by an offended head of state will in future have no chance. Can the Minister, who has now arrived, I see, confirm that? Mr. Chairman. Our group welcomes the development of modern kingship. That is what the present proposal fits in with, but there are still a few questions. We look forward to answering that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mrs Andriessen. I have to say hello to the Minister. I welcome the Minister for Justice and Security in the Upper Chamber. I now give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks and appreciation; thanks to the initiator for all the work he has done and appreciation for bringing his initiative law to this House. It is customary for us to ask ourselves every legislative proposal: is there a problem and does this bill solve the problem? According to my group, there is no immediate problem, but we also have a duty to be alert when it comes to our form of state and our Royal House. Our starting point is: the King holds our country high, let our country hold the King high. There is not often an incident, but occasionally there is a waxin light, a banner or an insulting exclamation. They bring much commotion from all sides, republicans, orange-minded people, freedom of expression, respect for the Royal House, equality thinking and so on. All kinds of principled views fight for priority. This indicates that our Royal House plays an essential role in our state system and in public opinion. Not directly a problem, therefore not a ready-made solution, but constant attention and cooperation with the developments. That is what this proposal does: to adapt the Code of Criminal Law to the spirit of time. My group is in favour of this. At the same time, it wants to see the problem in proportion. Criminal cases concerning insults to the Royal House, to officials or to representatives of the people get a lot of publicity and they cause a lot of discussion, but they are not serious criminal cases. It is also good to recall that this is only an insult. Other crimes continue to exist: defamation, slander, threat or violence; they are not abolished. Nor does this proposal have a direct link with the increasing aggression against police, fire brigades, teachers and drivers. This is one of the more serious offences and must therefore be dealt with by greater means. Madam President. In particular, this proposal deals with four points: the abolition of majesty desecration, insulting foreign heads of state, raising the penalty ceiling by a third and the complaint requirement. My group agrees with each of these points, and I would like to explain this. The current penalty limit of five years is far too high. Such a penalty fits with very serious offences with a serious breach of the rule of law. Articles 111, 112 and 113 are very rarely applied. And the penalties imposed are well below five years. This sentence dates from a time when the King, more than today, was the symbol of state power. The abolition of majesty desecration is not about a licence to insult the King and his House; it is about a maximum penalty that no longer fits the reality of our punishment. Secondly, the abolition of the special arrangements for Heads of State or Government who are friends. There is no objection to this point in my group either. They are very rarely applied and the penalties were much less than two years. These articles were intended to protect diplomatic movements. My group believes that, without this protection, diplomatic traffic can go well. Then there's the increase in the penalty limit. For ordinary insults to ordinary people, a maximum of three months stands. This can be increased to four months in case of insulting a servant of the public cause. A civil servant, then. It is not very clear what this increase is for, but in any case it gives room for differentiation by the criminal court. The concept of official is widely interpreted. From now on, the King is also covered by this broad concept of civil servant. To make it clear that no distinction is in principle made between servants of the public case. They're all the same before the Criminal Code. On the other hand, the public service mission is also carried out by employees of private companies. My group assumes that they too are covered by the broad view of Article 84. Does the author share this view? In the event of insulting all these government servants, an additional month may be imposed. With one major exception: the representatives of the people and the directors. They have the same protection as the voters they represent. They're not a step up. It behoves the petitioner that he has not succumbed to the temptation to arrange this differently. Madam Chairman. As a fourth point, the complaint requirement. The Public Prosecutor's Office will only prosecute insults if the victim has lodged a complaint. This bill makes an exception to the complaint requirement for the King, the officials, directors and representatives of the people. The public service must be able to operate without interruption to a certain degree of anonymity. And it could be that a complaint only makes the case worse. Does the D.A. have the right to investigate when the victim doesn't want to? What prevails in such a situation? The legislative proposal does not provide sufficient clarity on this issue. The complainant does not believe that this will occur so quickly. Would the author like to go into this in more detail? Madam President. All in all, my group welcomes this proposal. It is a step in a development that is constantly moving. This proposal makes a valuable contribution to this. We are committed to saying that we want to assess this proposal in the light of our great appreciation for the way in which our King and the members of the Royal House carry out their difficult tasks. It is precisely this appreciation that we must devote great care to legislation that affects the position of the King. We look forward to the reaction of the petitioner and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Those who make use of the right of initiative usually show worklust, courage and perseverance. Today, on behalf of the Christian Union Group, I express this appreciation to the initiator and his predecessor, who has reached this side of the Binnenhof. With regard to the content of this bill, however, my group has less appreciated words, but I assume that the author is well aware of those first sentences. Because questions remain both practical, but also basically. I put many of these questions to the author and some of them to the Minister of Justice. The King of the Netherlands is not a well-known Dutchman, a BN, as the author did say in the explanatory statement. No, he's the head of state above the political division that symbolizes the community and unity. Just in times of polarization, of different visions, of beliefs that break up and of great political diversity, the King is one of the important institutions, bearing in mind our state system. That thus contributes to social cohesion, security and solidarity, to a stable state system. The Netherlands is a constitutional monarchy and the Christian Union welcomes it. It is logical that the King has a special position. And it is precisely this aspect and its implications for the King's office where the Council of State puts the finger and where the Council of State points out an imbalance in the initiator's proposal. From the answers he then gave to this criticism, it is clear that he considers the King important and that the King deserves respect, but in addition to the bill it did not come of his own accord. That is a pity, because that also turns out to be law-systematic. The first articles to be deleted, Articles 111 to 113 of the Criminal Code, are covered by the title "Missing against Royal Dignity." After the deletion of these articles, only the criminal acts remain in respect of an attack on life, or the physical attack of the King or Queen, the crown successor or the regent. Royal dignity does not appear to be at risk until there is a physical attack in criminal terms. I would like to ask the petitioner and the Minister once again to explain what they consider to be the concept of 'royal dignity', and how this relates to the criminal law that remains if this bill takes effect. I would also like to hear from the initiator and from the Minister why the offence of insulting the King, as is now the case after the Koopmans/Kuiks amendment in Article 267, would not be better placed under the title in relation to crimes against royal dignity. Wetsystematically one would expect that here is the place to protect royal dignity in criminal terms. Not only do we have a responsibility here for what is happening, material law, but we are also responsible for the fact that a law is simply a good one. That is why I am asking for a reflection on this point. In answering our questions, the author argues that dignity and authority follow from the performance of the post. I'm sure that's the case. The Netherlands is lucky to have a king who is aware of this. But the office of King also brings with it that people acknowledge that a person is the King, not because he or she is better or behaves better than an average Dutchman, but because he or she is called to this task. I entirely miss that aspect in replying to the author. A new king or queen will of course have to prove himself, but from day one, we all swear allegiance to this king or queen. We hereby declare that the new king or queen has authority. The bill that was left after the thorough renovation in the Lower House mainly changes the penalty ceiling. Can the initiator, if he takes up the case of the past ten years, indicate how many of these cases his new law had made a difference? Have there been higher sentences than would be obvious with this new law? I am very curious whether the new law would indeed give a different outcome. Can the author also comment on the literature which clearly describes that Article 111 of criminal law is not an easier article to charge majesty than "simple insults', which are later under Title XVI, from Article 261 of criminal law, I say for the listener who is interested. Can the author explain the difference? Does not Article 111 of the Criminal Code also apply to offences which are dealt with in Title XVI? Can he include the answer to this question in his view on how these matters have been dealt with in the last ten years and where this difference had been made? And if the conclusion is that I hope the petitioner can prove that, but I doubt that the penalties would have been lower, why didn't he choose to make a smaller change, which is to adjust the penalty? The initiator is, of course, fully quoting European case law, and as far as the maximum sentence of five years is concerned, he has a point. I can imagine that the Netherlands is getting a little out of hand. But that fact is not yet an argument for the larger-scale conversion of the insulting articles that are before us today. The initiator describes in the new course of events that although there is no complaint requirement, fortunately no longer, I add, but outlines the next process. "It is not excluded that the State will seek the advice of the government on this matter, and that consultations with the King will take place within the government. Any discussion within the government shall remain confidential. Now that a complaint is not required for prosecution, the D.A. can also prosecute without a complaint. But the initiator hopes and expects that the prosecutor will not use persecution against the king's express wish." Does the petitioner mean to say that the King must be known in this consideration? That is not clear from the legal text before us. So I would like to hear a precise answer on this point. Furthermore, the initiator talks about chilling effects that would arise in the legal articles that are still in force. If people know of a strict criminal standard and there is a lack of clarity when it is maintained, they will not make statements that risk criminal prosecution. Do I understand the author so well? In this case, I'm missing a basis. Does he think that the public debate on this issue has been slow down in recent years? Does he have the impression that the debate would have been different without these articles of law? And would it have been a better debate? This is even more true of the assumption that Articles 111 to 113 criminal law are used by mayors to enforce public order. The initiator shall indicate a pattern in the explanatory statement. But asked for a justification for this, he suddenly makes the argument because it is not a main argument and does not want to elaborate the argument further. But then there's an issue here. If this is indeed an instrument that mayors use to promote public order, then it calls for a response from the mayors showing when they use it, why and or without these articles, security is in order. And if this cannot be substantiated, then the applicant should not write it down either. Also when it comes to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the judiciary, the petitioner has failed to hold a consultation round. I think that's weird. Why does the petitioner not want to know whether his bill is feasible in the eyes of these key stakeholders? Why didn't you seek counsel from the field? What role does the Minister see for himself as an advisor to this Chamber on this point? Can he inform us about that? Has he taken any advice and can he send us that? The bill also amends the Code of Criminal Law BES. I ask the Minister whether any arrangements have been made for the establishment of this code with the administrative colleges of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba on consultation on proposed amendments. If not, wouldn't it be advisable to do so anyway? The petitioner says it's not necessary. He says we can just deal with it here and that these are sort of municipal councils. I think it's a little bit different. I would like to hear his reaction to that in the light of what I just said. I will go one step further, because the King is not only King of the Netherlands, but also of the other countries in the Kingdom: of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. What are their thoughts on this bill? Have these countries been consulted? How has Article 39 (2) of the Staff Regulations been implemented? Can this bill actually be dealt with in this Chamber? It was only when I read the responses of the author to Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba that I understood exactly what this omission was. We all attach great importance to good practices in the Kingdom, we all attach great importance to the Statute. How, then, is it possible that an important change which affects all of us Kings has not been observed in the other countries of the Kingdom? Can we actually continue with this legal treatment? Or does that have to happen first? I can imagine that, at least in view of the manner in which we are dealing, but in fact in view of the Statute, we are only in the right place. I would like to hear a very sharp reaction from the author and the Minister on this point, because we need to consider this very carefully. Finally, I noticed that the abdicated King has no position in these articles. I believe that the CDA has already put its finger on this in writing too, quite rightly. In view of the years in which this legislation has been drawn up, that is not so strange either, because abdication has only occurred a few times in the last century in a pleasant way, but in the meantime we have some experience with it. Does the Minister consider that the law needs to be amended in this respect? I'd like to hear his vision. Mr. Chairman. They are called to kingship. It is a heavy and extremely responsible post which is responsible for a state system. I am grateful for our King who so faithfully fulfills his duties and wants to be a symbol of unity, above the parties, in our country. Such an institution can only be handled with care and care. However, the present legislative proposal is messy; the amendments adopted are improvements but do not reduce the messy picture. The applicant's argument varies on a number of points. It would really have decorated the author if he had sought more advice and then shared it. I am thinking of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the justice system, the mayors, the BES islands and also the countries of the Kingdom. Furthermore, the Christian Union Group is not yet convinced that the legislative proposal solves a problem, but we are, of course, looking forward to the debate with the initiator and the answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group also wants to congratulate initiator Verhoeven on his thorough and persistent work, which makes the legislation in the field of majesty desecration and insult of friendly Heads of State more of this time and brings it closer to the citizens. I know that some other groups, to the extreme guard against the desecration of majesty, will be calling for the necessary attention to be paid to this today. It just happened. In this brief speech, therefore, I will confine myself to the insult of friendly Heads of State, to which I also have personal emotional memories when I think of an unprecedented wave of protest that went around the world more than 50 years ago. It's always been a little weird with the concept of a friendly head of state. For example, in 1938, the writer Maurits Dekkers received a heavy fine for calling the friendly head of state of our eastern neighbours, Hitler, hysterical. A preacher appeared before the court in The Hague because he had called the same friendly head of state a villain. My own very emotional experiences date back to the second half of the sixties of the last century when the U.S. military in Vietnam waged a relentless war using napalm on a large scale. It was at a time when criticism of our ally had to be weighed very carefully, because the older generations in particular saw the Americans as our liberators in the Second World War for which there could only be a great deal of thanks. However, not only worldwide, but also in the Netherlands, the protest against the barbaric war conducted under the leadership of President John F. Kennedy, who was killed, was Lyndon B. Johnson. Protesters chanted or performed slogans with the text "Johnson Killer," which led to arrests and convictions. The political science student Hans M. was one of the first two weeks of unconditional imprisonment for insulting a friendly head of state. This led to a certain creativity among the protesters and also politicians often mixed themselves with agility in the intense discussions. Arresters declared that they were misunderstood and that they had called "Johnson miller." Others only shouted "Johnson" after which others shouted "killer." Political action took place when the Groningen professor of Philosophy Bernard Delfgaauw declared on 21 October 1967 in the old RAI for 15,000 people that according to the criteria of the war tribunals of Nuremberg and Tokyo that what the Americans do in Vietnam falls within the category of war crimes. Johnson, his ministers and generals, his war criminals, according to Delfgaauw. Initially the then Minister of Justice Carel Polak did not want to prosecute because he said: criticism is allowed, insult not. This triggered a great discussion about class justice. Simple students do, professors don't prosecute. By the way, banners were then carried with the text "Johnson killer" with the reference to Professor Delfgaauw. This led to re-baralizations, among others, against the PvdA-Second MP Joop Voogd, who was highly esteemed for his war history. In the international Institute of History a large picture can be seen in the daily Het Vrije Volk with the banner "According to International Tribunal Johnson is not a miller" and also "Johnson murderer." On 3 November 1967 the ministers of the De Jong cabinet met on this matter and a formal decision was taken by a majority to prosecute Delfgaauw. Later, however, this was abandoned because "it was not possible to verify exactly what the literal text had been." Much of this can be read in the work "The Cabinet-De Jong 1967-1971" by the authors Johan Merriënboer and Carla van Balen. Politicians, too, were increasingly involved in the discussion on the subject of insulting friendly heads of state. PvdA'er Ed van Thijn spoke in the Lower House about "the ridiculous situation" that in courtrooms "adults squabble about the insulting character and subvariants of the miller's office" and advocated the abolition of certain articles. In this house, the First Chamber, when examining the budget of Justice on 12 March 1968, the left-wing opposition asked whether the song "Delf soon a grave for Johnson" could also be seen as inciting unlawful burial of a not yet deceased. It was not until 1976 that the law established that prosecution would take place only if the insulted head of state officially complained to the Dutch government. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that the deletion of Articles 118 and 119 serves freedom of expression and that insulted people, like any citizen, can rely on normal procedures. We have often come across the term contemporary as a qualification for this change of law. However, we still have a question on which we would like to hear a little reflection from the initiator and the government spokesperson. That question is about the concept of "head of state friend" which is now being used if we are not at war with the country in question. Does the average Dutchman have a friendship with a Putin, Maduro or Erdogan, not to mention the heads of government of the many dictatorial countries where human rights are not or hardly respected? Shouldn't the concept of a friendly head of state be given a more contemporary meaning? We are curious to hear the answer, that I will follow this afternoon by circumstances at a different location than here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating the author of the own-initiative proposal. People's representatives who make independent proposals and actively fulfil their role as co-legislator, should be congratulated on the next Labour Party. This increases the recognition and representative role of politics. Mr. Chairman. The title of my short contribution could be: No Mercy. It is the Dutch music group Racoon who sings in one of her songs, No Mercy from 2012, the fact that both soldiers and the king get no mercy. And although in this song, I believe, it is about the fact that soldiers and the king are equally rejected by someone of the female sex, I think the motto "no mercy" applies to the present proposal of the initiator. The starting point is that public people generally have to take more pleasure than any private person. The initiator used the established case law of the European Court of Justice to argue this in the earlier phase of the examination of this initiative proposal. And although a politician is also entitled to protect his or her reputation, this protection must be balanced against the interests of an open discussion on political matters. In this context, the European Court of Justice also refers to 'the right to defend' and 'the right to shock'. Thus, a special legal status for Heads of State, which only protects them by virtue of their function or status from criticism and gives them a privilege, is not in line with modern practices and political views, according to this case law and thus the ruling of the Council of Europe of 2007. The motivation for this is, of course, that without pluralism, tolerance and open-mindedness, a democratic society cannot exist. That democratic society is not so old. This also has to do with the origin and legal basis of the legislative proposals that have been put forward for this purpose in the past and parliamentaryly confirmed. The diversity of views that this creates is at the heart of the dynamics of our democratic system. According to the French political philosopher Claude Lefort, the core of the democratisation of society after the French revolution is the fact that the place of power has come empty and is free to be filled with the will of the people. In this concept, democracy is an indefinite regime: power depends on free expression of opinion and votes. This is contrary to a monarchal order or a totalitarian system, in which the power is visible in the hands of one or more rulers. It is therefore not surprising that the first basis for the current ban on majesty desecration arose in response to the French revolution and the Napoleonic regime, from the need to protect the royal houses that returned to the throne after 1815. Those who find that historically interesting can read that in the book of Professor Van Sas, our natural ally, from 1985. Recently Beatrice de Graaf recounted this in her book Against Terror. We believe that it is possible to be critical of the functioning of the institutions of the rule of law, even if this is done in a passionate way. The same applies to the possibility of pleading for a state establishment in which a certain institution, the hereditary kingship, is no longer a place. A wide range of opportunities are essential in a democratic society. Mr. Chairman. It is an accepted case that private, public and legal persons are also entitled to protect their honour and reputation. The legislative proposal therefore maintains the criminal law possibilities in accordance with Articles 261, 262 and 266 of the Criminal Code. But on the basis of what I said before, you will understand that our PvdA Group is in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr Verheijen. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. The author has already received compliments from all sides. I'd like to go along with that. It is an achievement to come up with an initiative-based draft. The original proposal submitted by the initiator was rather rigid. Equalize the king to any other random citizen and offer even less separate protection than a number of other categories of persons? Yeah. In the meantime, a great deal has changed, so that the proposal may no longer fully reflect what the author was trying to achieve, but what I believe is better adapted to the situation in this country. The existing regime for what we call "majesty desecration" has been inherited from another time, a time when State and sovereign were considered almost identical in many respects, but is therefore not without real meaning, even for this time. The King is no longer identical to the State and his meaning is not based on power but only on authority, but that authority is still partly derived, perhaps to a very large extent, from the position of the King as reigning prince, head of the State and symbol of the State, as well as from the fact that that authority is personally coloured by the duties of the king. In my opinion, that means that not only a physical attack on the King, or the murder of the King, is an attack on the State and rightly treated as such in the Code of Criminal Law, but that the authority of the King and of the State can also be threatened by insult. No one has to be offended, but insulting the King also involves the interest of the State. However, the rule of majesty in Articles 111, 112 and 113, and in the same way the insults of foreign Heads of State in Articles 118 and 119, as measured by our standards, are out of the question where the penalty and the additional measures are concerned. There, of course, the author has a point that could give him cause to pursue a change. And the fact that insult and expression are different things, but may resemble each other in their expression, also justifies that freedom of expression is also taken into account in relation to the position and even to the person of the king when assessing what might be qualified as an insult, but perhaps should not be. Current Articles 111 to 113 of the Criminal Code do not provide such a balance. And even though the case law for that purpose has Article 10 of the ECHR in place to make that assessment, the applicant is right that the law should also make that distinction explicit. In the case of Commune insults, however, that difference can be made by the grounds for exclusion which give rise to respect for freedom of expression when weighing a complaint of insult. Those are arguments for affronting the King or his immediate surroundings, his husband, his heir and husband, to regulate the Regent............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This could be done by adapting these articles to terms of punishment and by supplementing them with grounds for exclusion. The scheme could then continue to be part of Title II of Book 2 of the Criminal Code. After Title I, the crimes against the security of the State, Title II, the crimes against royal dignity, is certainly not illogically placed for provisions against the knowingly insulting of the King, who in office and in person represents the State. Taking into account the freedom of expression, incorporated in the law in the form of the grounds for exclusion, that would seem to me to be an appropriate arrangement. The State and the King are not identical, but the King personifies, symbolizes the State. It's not easy for me to deal with that lightly. The method chosen by the petitioner to achieve his, in the course of the process, highly moderate objectives will not work much differently in the practice of the case-law than what I had seen as a more beautiful solution, even in the context of historical development. But the solution that he chooses and which is now before him as an initiative proposal has at least all the elements necessary to provide adequate protection for King and State, and for the citizen the space needed for expressing his own views on the establishment of the State in general and the position and fulfillment of the King and his environment in particular. Compared to the general rules of insult, there is a limited increase in the maximum penalty. There is no complaint, but like officials, the prosecution can prosecute independently and the regular grounds for exclusion apply here too. The fact that the author of a bill in which he classified insulting the King or his surroundings as a commune insult in principle also classifies the articles about insulting foreign heads of state as a separate category is obvious. But that also a strange head of state does not have to file a complaint in person in case of insult would not have seemed inappropriate to me. Articles 118 and 119, as well as the increase in penalties in Article 267, seek to remove the applicant. But perhaps he or the Minister can indicate what will become the procedure for a foreign Head of State or representative in any event and to what extent this will meet written or unwritten obligations in diplomatic matters. Mr President, I would like to hear the comments of the author and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for his initiative. The bill aims to remove the provisions on majesty desecration and insulting a friendly head of state from the Code of Criminal Law. Both provisions have a history. Looking back, sometimes laughable, it wasn't that many people were the victims of it. In 1986, the Socialist foreman Domela Nieuwenhuis was sentenced to one year in prison for majesty desecration, for his...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u20	1886, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u21	Yes, you're right: 1868... 1886.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u22	1886. Not 1986.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u23	No, thank you for this correction. Then there would have been a misunderstanding about the period in which Domela Nieuwenhuis still worked. But that was a long time ago. Then he described King Willem III as "someone who makes so little of his job," followed by a dozen blank pages. At that time, justice found evil and public disdain, blasphemy and blasphemy of the king's person. Nowadays, many historians judge Domela Nieuwenhuis' pronunciation as fairly accurate. Unfortunately, it is the fate of socialists that they are ahead of their time with their insights, sometimes. By the way, after seven months, Domela was pardoned by the king on the occasion of the seventh birthday of Princess Wilhelmina. That's how it was at the time. Almost a century later, in 1965, some people were fined 50 guilders for hanging a banner with the text "live the republic" and also shouting that slogan on a tour of the Amsterdam Herengracht by Princess Beatrix with her fiancée Claus van Amsberg. But more recently, in 2014, a speaker at a demonstration could finally go unpunished: "Fuck the king, fuck the queen, fuck the royal house!" Mr President, I apologise for the language in this quote, because I do not think we should speak English in this house. The latter case was also dismissed by the judiciary, explaining that these statements were made "within the context of the public debate." A very different approach to justice than in the time of Domela Nieuwenhuis. This cannot be done otherwise, because our judges have the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights. The ECHR has made some interesting statements on the relationship between freedom of expression and the criminality of insults in connection with the initiative proposal. The initiator summarized them well for us in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. It is established case-law of the ECHR that public persons should be more well-pleased, not less, than any citizen. The same applies to heads of state, including monarchs. The Court stated on several occasions that a provision of punishment which gives greater protection to the head of state than to ordinary citizens is in principle contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. As early as 2007, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe called on the Member States to bring their legislation into line with ECHR case law and to remove any enhanced protection of public figures from their insult legislation. Our government has failed to do so, but it is good that Mr Verhoeven has taken the initiative to respond to this call. Mr. Chairman. For majesty desecration you can get up to five years in prison, much more than for defamation, slander or insult to other citizens. There is also a lack in the article on majesty desecration of the absence of an exception for the defence of the public interest. Because according to Article 261 of the Code of Criminal Law there is no defamation if the offender has been able to assume that his ruling was true and that it served the public interest. And Article 266 of this Code excludes simple insults: conduct intended to give an opinion on the defence of the public interest and which has not been done to grieve beyond that purpose. These are important grounds for the freedom of expression for any sharp criticism that is unfortunately lacking in the article on majesty desecration. All in all, therefore, the SP Group welcomes the removal of majesty desecration from the law. That doesn't mean you're allowed to offend the king unpunished. The king and his people can also invoke the ordinary articles of law against defamation, slander and insult. And after an amendment from the Lower House, which has also been supported by the SP, it remains possible for the Public Prosecutor to prosecute, even if the King does not complain, as with insulting other officials in office. Mr. Chairman. I will be brief, partly in view of my increasing speaking time, on the deletion of the articles of law on insulting a friendly head of state and members of a government of a friendly state, that is to say any state that the Netherlands is not at war with. That was a very bad idea when you weren't allowed to insult Hitler before the war, it was a bad law when pro-Vietnam protesters were convicted of shouting "Johnson killer" and it's a bad law because the Public Prosecutor should consider prosecuting us for insulting a friendly head of state if we were chanting "Erdogan, deslegat, you're killing the Turkish rule of law." We'd better get rid of these articles of law. For foreign heads of state, there is still the possibility, as for others, of lodging a complaint for defamation, slander or insult, and it remains possible to do so by diplomatic means. We think that's enough. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that we have not asked Mr Verhoeven any questions, we look forward to his response to the input of our Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. I would also like, on behalf of my group, to congratulate Mr Verhoeven on the initiative to put this issue on the political agenda and also on its elaboration. His initiatives often serve our democratic state and, in particular, the freedom of citizens within it, as they do today. Freedom of expression is at the heart of our pluralistic society and our democracy. In a free society, power and authority must always be able to be criticized and ridiculed, as well as those in power or persons with special status. This will allow citizens in power to hold a mirror. An opinion or criticism may be an insult to one person and may concern a confirmation of thought. What is, in the end, an insult is always difficult to establish and is therefore, in part, at odds with freedom of expression. With slander and slander that is a slightly different story, but that people in the Netherlands are not quickly convicted for insult, is probably partly because it is rather multi-interpretable. A resilient society can be expected to have a certain absorption capacity. In this light, I would like to ask the initiator and the Minister how they generally view the need for the criminalisation of simple insults, partly in view of the ultimatum-remedium nature of our criminal law. What purpose does this article serve according to initiator and government? Shouldn't we be dealing with insults in our society in another way rather than trying to regulate it through criminal law? On the other hand, there is the practical side: how effective is the criminalisation, partly in view of the low level of use? Can it even lead to counterproductive effects, such as hardening of relationships? Isn't it better to deal with insults outside of criminal law, for example through the civilian route or through mediation? These were general questions about criminalisation of insults, but now I am going to deal more specifically with the current bill. The removal of special criminal provisions on insulting friendly heads of state and insulting the King is a good thing, just because a maximum sentence of five years, a high fine and the withdrawal of the right to vote in the event of insulting the King is not only disproportionate, but is almost against the ridicule. Besides being a person, the King is also a power institution and should therefore be able to be criticized without such a heavy, dissuasive effect from criminal law. This so-called chilling effect is a term that indicates a circumstance in which a person does not feel entirely free to exercise his or her rights for fear of threatening sanctions. From the point of view of my group, this should be avoided as much as possible, especially when it comes to freedom of expression. According to the initiator, does this happen enough in this bill? The initiator referred to such an effect as inevitable if insulting public authority as such would and will continue to be punishable. What is the initiator's view of minimising an undesirable chilling effect, which will continue as long as criminal prosecution remains an option? In my group's view, it is still unclear what can and cannot be said by the citizen. Does the initiator share this view and does he consider the current law sufficiently clearly defined in this respect, also in view of the principle of legal certainty? We can also ask ourselves to what extent persecution based on majesty desecration has been effective at all. If, in exceptional cases, the public prosecutor decides to prosecute in order to undermine the dignity of the office, it sometimes generates so much attention that it contributes to the loss of dignity of the head of state rather than the other way around. In doing so, the dignity of authority should follow from the performance of the post rather than from a threat to citizens. Our group welcomes the fact that officials are better protected than members of general representative bodies, but there are also a number of parts of the law that my group still has some questions about. Mr. Chairman. The next point is also mentioned by others. According to the initiator, the case-law of the ECHR shows that in any event special provisions relating to the desecration of majesty are very difficult to relate to Article 10 ECHR. This proposal is taking a step in the right direction, but it does not completely remove all the objections, given the same case law. Indeed, the Court emphasizes that slander laws which are too protective of reputational violations and which provide for sanctions can still have a chilling effect on freedom of expression and public debate. According to the Court, the principle of proportionality with regard to the punishment of slander and defamation is very important when it comes to preventing that effect. My group wonders whether the current legislative proposal goes far enough to take account of the proportionality considerations of the Court, precisely because it is not even about slander but about insult. In my view, that is actually a less serious crime than defamation or slander. If you look at the practice, you can see that 19 cases were registered in the Netherlands between 2000 and 2011, almost half of which led to a conviction. These are five fines, three unconditional prison sentences and one conviction in the category of "other punishment." Although this legislative proposal reduces the penalties, it does not completely remove the possibility. I repeat what has already been recalled by others: the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in its resolution "Towards decriminalisation of slander" in 2007 called for the abolition of prison sentences against slander, in line with the case law of the ECHR. Couldn't you argue that it should be done at least with regard to insults? Did the initiator consider that, too? How does he see his bill in that light? And does the Minister also recognise the risk of the chilling effect as appointed by the ECHR and the Parliamentary Assembly? How does it intend to minimise that effect, even after this law has been adopted if it is adopted? Mr. Chairman. My group shares the view of the ECHR that politicians have a different function than civil servants and that therefore there is no need for more punishment in insulting politicians. As far as my group is concerned, this should also apply to political directors and the whole category of public bodies. At the first reading of the initiator, insults to public bodies were excluded, but they were added later. It may be an open door, but I would like to ask what Minister Verhoeven's view is on this. The penalty increase does not apply to friendly foreign heads of state. This could lead to the situation that a state banquet with, for example, Germany could be punished less severely against Angela Merkel than an insult to our King or a police officer on duty. My group has a great deal of sympathy for the abolition of the criminalisation and the extra heavy penalty imposed on friendly heads of state, but the question is how far that can be justified if you see the whole situation together. The initiator justifies this by saying that they have other ways: they can file a complaint and it can be resolved by diplomatic means. But the question is whether that is sufficient justification and whether in such a case the public prosecutor should not have the opportunity to start doing so, at the same time as insulting our own head of state. Our group also has a question about the consultation of the other countries in our Kingdom, as Mrs Bikker has already mentioned. Why did the initiator Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin not ask for their views? These countries have largely the same criminal law. This is also how the articles on majesty desecration agree. Our group would have thought it logical if the countries had also been consulted, since they have the same head of state and insult of the head of state could soon be punished differently in the countries of the Kingdom. Although it is not a state law, it is in line with Article 39 (2) of the Statute, which requires that a view be sought if there are significant changes to the Code of Criminal Law of the countries of the Kingdom. Or does the initiator consider that this is not a major change? For the sake of certainty, it should also be consulted, because there may be different opinions on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u26	I am very pleased that Mrs Strik is making this point, because Article 39 of the Statute is there for a reason and we attach great importance to that good understanding, including within the Kingdom. Now I have seen such a consultation on the other side. It lasts six weeks; that's not very long. This room's gonna be here in six weeks. Could she imagine that we would still consult, given the text of Rule 39 (2)? In fact, it says: before taking any action... I am curious to see how Mrs Strik looks at this. I could imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u27	I do not rule that out, but first I want to hear the answer from the initiator and also from the Minister. How do they look at that? Finally, on the ministerial responsibility for the King. The initiator says that in practice the present King proves assertive enough to bring a lawsuit if he sees the need to do so. This is also reflected in the civil cases brought by the King so far. My group nevertheless questions this line of argument, because this law will also apply to future generations of Heads of State. And the reaction of the initiator is a very personal one, you might say. But above all, the initiator seems to trivialize the King's special constitutional position somewhat. Assertive or not, he does suffer from limitations due to the system of ministerial responsibility. So I'd like another reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, especially from my generation, have already reminiscent of the demonstrations against the Vietnam war where protesters were forced to resort to the slogan "Johnson miller" in order to avoid criminal proceedings. My group hopes that after today the public will no longer have to adapt in such a creative way for fear of criminal prosecution, but will be able to express its criticism of any public behavior. In any case, we look forward with interest to the response of the initiator and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to congratulate the initiator who has now reached this Chamber with his proposal. Our King has a special position in our state system and in our society. He's in no way an ordinary citizen. He holds the highest office in our country on the basis of our constitution as Head of State. The King promotes national unity and represents the Kingdom of the Netherlands and all the Dutch. A post with appropriate dignity, and it should be. The present bill raises the question of whether the dignity of kingship should be protected by a separate description of the offence against deliberate insult or whether insulting the King should be equated with insulting "ordinary" citizens. The initiator aims at the latter. Mr. Chairman. Let me start constructively. The bill introduces a more appropriate criminal threat to majesty desecration. The current maximum penalty threat is disproportionate to the nature and severity of the crime. There is therefore a consensus on this. But, Mr President, that is what it was all about in terms of equality. In itself, my group still thinks it is a nice idea that the applicability of the penalty exclusion principle 'participate in a social debate' also explicitly follows the law for insulting the King. However, this is not necessary, since the judge is already fully assessing whether the conviction of majesty is compatible with freedom of expression. To this end, the ECHR and the case law of the Strasbourg Court also require. According to the initiator, it would be necessary to abolish the separate ban on the desecration of majesty, otherwise restricting freedom of expression and the possibility of holding a civil debate would be unacceptable. In this context, the initiator always refers to the so-called "chilling effect'. Citizens would not feel entirely free to use freedom of expression for fear of threatening sanctions. However, in the opinion of the members of the CDA Group, it is a great misunderstanding to think that critical citizens are silenced by the current ban. In this context, members of the CDA Group have asked the initiator to give some examples of convictions. The initiator didn't give it. If he had, it would have been obvious to everyone that the argument of a "chilling effect" does not affect any purpose. I refer the initiator to the published case law relating to the prohibition of majesty desecration as set out in the excellent article by Jasper van Uden entitled The ban on majesty desecration in the modern democratic rule of law published last summer in the Magazine of Constitutional Law. (J.E. van Uden, The ban on majesty desecration in the modern democratic rule of law, TVCR 2018/3 (July 2018), p.221-234). My group sees the case law analysed in this article as consistent. I will not quote the expressions in question here, because they are such ghastly texts that I do not wish to get them out of my mouth. In any case, it is always a question of clearly offensive and unnecessarily offensive and grievanced expressions that do not contribute to any social debate. The court held, quite rightly, that there was no such thing as protection. In addition, the draft law before us does not make it any clearer when an insulting expression about the King is punishable or not. It is also up to the court to consider whether there is an expression which has exceeded the limit of the permissible level of offence in the assessment of communal offences. The judge assesses that on the basis of the statement itself, the context in which that statement was made and the question whether there was a justification for the expression in that particular case, for example because it was expressed in the context of a public debate. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group is not at all convinced by the arguments put forward by the initiator for the partial equivalence of majesty desecration with communal insults. In addition, my group sees a material gap in both the current and the proposed regime, namely in the regime with regard to the abdicated King. The abdicated King is protected neither by the current provisions of derived majesty desecration nor by the proposed regime in Article 266 introductory wording and under 1 Criminal law. Is the Minister prepared to promote this gap through legislation? Chairman! I'm rounding up. In the opinion of the CDA Group, the King deserves additional protection by means of a separate description of the crime. This does not limit freedom of expression to a greater extent than the assignment of the majesty desecration to the commune of insults. There is also a clear signal from the separate description of the crime: a gross violation of the good name and honour of the King and his close family, and therefore of the royal dignity and dignity of this country: we do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiator, Mr Verhoeven, on being able to defend his bill in the Upper House today. Quite an achievement that bears witness to a lot of perseverance. The bill aims, at least in its original intent, to ensure a complete equivalence of insulting the King with communal insults. The ban on majesty desecration should be removed. This initial objective of the legislative proposal brings me on my own to a first general question. Has the petitioner not seriously considered withdrawing his bill after treatment in the Lower House? Because, let's be honest, after treatment in the House of Representatives, his bill is neither meat nor fish. The Party for Animals will be happy with that, but that cannot apply to Mr Verhoeven. His bill no longer refers to a complete equivalence of majesty desecration with the commune of insults. We are now talking, with all due respect, about some crumbs: the penalty is reduced, the insult of the King must be appealed to communal insults and the grounds for exclusion of communal insults also apply to majesty desecration. Does Mr Verhoeven think that he would later dare to tell his grandchildren with pride, pump and circumcence how he got this bill through the First Chamber? Does he recognize himself in his initial ideals? Mr. Chairman. The kingship stands or falls with the dignity attached to the office. This dignity, the SGP believes, deserves protection and is also served with some mystery, magic and special privileges. I am thinking of the immunity of the King, of various duty-free allowances, of an exception to the rules on funeral care, but also of several civil and criminal regulations. It's all supposed to be, you might say, in our country's choice of a monarchal state. Anyone who looks at this rationally only misses the fact that there are things beyond reason. The love of our royal house in the breadth of our society cannot be separated from the magic of the monarchy either. Within this context also fits very well a special, insulting description of the King's crime. This description of the crime is a symbol of the special position held by the King and the dignity served by it. In addition, a king is in fact defenseless. He cannot defend himself in the same way as ordinary citizens. For that reason, too, a king deserves some extra support and protection, so to speak. The King's position and dignity deserve special protection. That would only be otherwise if there were serious objections to this particular description of the offence, for example an unacceptable restriction of freedom of expression or the impossibility of holding a thorough debate on the royal family. However, there is no such thing. Or can the petitioner make this hard? The initiator will also have seen the responses to his bill by renowned lawyers. I also refer to the article just mentioned by my colleague, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Doesn't that show that the ban on majesty desecration doesn't in any way create any friction in the area of freedom of expression? What does this say about the purpose of the bill? Is this fear, which is therefore not necessary, for too limited freedom of opinion, or yet secretly a paw of that special position of the Royal House? If there are no problems at all in terms of freedom of expression, why is a particularly criminal protection regime a threat to the initiator? Mr. Chairman. It's campaign time, so allow me. Fine that D66 throws her one crown jewels overboard, but she should not touch the crown jewels of Néderland. Mr. Chairman. Then I ask the Minister whether, in his view, the insult of the ex-King should not also be regarded as a derivative of majesty. Mrs Van Bijsterveld rightly made this point just now. The existing regulation does not provide for this and neither does the legislative proposal. Isn't this an omission? When Princess Beatrix is heavily offended, this also reflects on the person of the King and on the royal dignity, especially now that Princess Beatrix is and remains so closely attached to the institution of the monarchy. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Is he willing to restore that legal omission? Finally, I would like to endorse Mr Bikker's intriguing questions about the involvement of our overseas territories in this bill. Hasn't the petitioner overlooked some compatriots in preparing this bill? Mr President, I will conclude. An Dutch party like the SGP does not need this bill. Nevertheless, I look forward with great interest to the answers to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I notice we'll be done 45 minutes faster than expected. I will not put the question to the author and to the Minister whether they can answer immediately. I think that is well indicated in the agenda, unless you think you can solve all that in 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u33	No. So many questions have been asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-3.u34	I think so, too. A few fundamental questions have been asked to you. There is nothing left for me but to suspend the debate and to suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. before lunch.
