ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the debate on the US Ambassador's call for a boycott of Russian gas. The US Ambassador, Mr Hoekstra, took his place in the chair. I would like to welcome him to the House of Representatives. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We're going to the speakers now. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The cabinet long insisted that Nord Stream is a purely commercial project. On the contrary, independent analysts have stressed that there is no business case for this huge investment and that there should therefore be other considerations, especially geopolitical considerations. In the meantime, the cabinet has also come to that understanding. In Zurich, the Prime Minister even coined the term "pipeline politicians." Last week a compromise was reached in Brussels on the adaptation of the Gas Directive. It is not easy to interpret that compromise. This is, I think, mainly due to the unclear division of roles between the Member States and the European Commission. Member States may negotiate exemption from rules with third countries, but only with a mandate from the Commission and with the agreement that the final result will be returned to the Commission. How does the Commission assess whether the criteria for exemption are met, I ask the cabinet. Is it true that Member States decide whether to exempt existing pipelines themselves? Or does the Commission have the last word here too? Will the compromise enter into force before Nord Stream is finished? Perhaps the most important thing: in practice, Germany will soon be able to obtain an exemption and therefore it agreed. Why is the Netherlands, which is always a clear opposition to the application of the directive to Nord Stream, after all, it was a private project that Brussels had to keep far from. In the letter of 7 February, the Netherlands, this cabinet, still maintained the old position. A day later, in Brussels, we agree with something that goes against that. A few days later, in a speech in Zurich, the Prime Minister says that the Member States have taken a big step in the right direction: "The compromise on the Gas Directive means that the EU can apply rules to third countries in its own energy market." I am pleased with that, but the question remains: why this turn? Then geopolitics. The Prime Minister also said in Zurich that EU foreign policy should become less naive. It is good that this has led directly to recognition of the geopolitical dimensions of Nord Stream 2. It was indeed a strong piece of naivety to insist that this project was purely commercial. The consequences of Nord Stream for countries in Eastern Europe dependent on Russian gas and earning from its transit can be disastrous. In the letter we received about the talks between Russia, Ukraine and the Commission, I read that there is still no agreement on Ukraine's position as a gas transit country. There's a new date for consultation, and that's about it. This raises the question of what should happen for Nord Stream 2 if no agreement is reached. So it's just gonna go on? Or are we willing to play hardball? Finally, I wonder what else the cabinet intends to do. The Prime Minister spoke in his Zurich speech about diversification. He wants to enter into supply contracts with the US, Canada, Norway, Africa, and Central Asia. I would like to see this worked out further. Which countries have gas available in the coming years for which contracts have not yet been concluded? How do these different sources relate to economic costs and environmental impact? Finally, my final question. How do we proceed with the United States, with our ally, who threatened us again today with sanctions and the withdrawal of military cooperation if we do not turn our backs on Nord Stream?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u4	Mr. Chairman. What is it really about? Why are we discussing a pipeline between Russia and Germany, when there are already different pipelines between Russia and Germany and between Russia and many other countries? For the VVD this is a question of security of supply. There is more demand for natural gas in the Netherlands than supply. That is why we need to extract natural gas from abroad for the time being. That is the reality. We all want it not to be, but it is. This means that we must also do business with countries such as Russia, which behave like our opponents. We have been importing Russian gas since the times of the Soviet Union, and that is what we are doing today. We also have to do business with companies from countries that we don't like. That's just what the VVD's clear about. It is good that we are busy reducing our dependence on natural gas, also in the context of climate change. But for the time being, we simply need foreign natural gas, especially now that we are rapidly phasing out the gas extraction from Groningen for the safety of the Groningers. Meanwhile, we have to keep our homes warm and keep our businesses running. Almost all households in the Netherlands and large parts of industry depend on natural gas. That is why we still have to get our natural gas from abroad to a large extent. We are therefore concerned with security of supply. Nord Stream 2 does not create a new dependency, but an additional possibility to import gas. So we are not becoming more dependent on Russia, but less dependent on other pipelines from Russia that are already there. It is a good thing that a new EU compromise now includes the Nord Stream 2 pipeline under European rules. This means that the conditions for delivery to Germany will be closely monitored. It is also a good thing that agreements are being made on Ukraine's delivery position, which is now an important transit country, and that this position is not unnecessarily affected. The pipelines through Ukraine must remain open, also in the interest of Ukraine and in the interest of our security of supply. I therefore ask the Minister what is the state of play now in the discussions on monitoring Ukraine's position. And I ask him about his talks with our American friends about their statements on this project, because we see no reason for America to interfere in a discussion about a new Russian-German pipeline. America must keep away from threats to Dutch companies that contribute to this. We should not go to a foreign policy in which we punish each other's companies for choosing their business partner. That divides us, when we need to be strong together. That is why I am pleased that the American Ambassador is here to follow our debate. Finally, I say that we are our own boss. That is why the security of supply for Dutch people is our responsibility. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u5	Were you ready, Mr. Koopmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u6	Yes, I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u7	Okay. Before I give you the floor: I did not make any agreements on interruptions, but I allow two interruptions in the first term of the Chamber, so a question and a follow-up question. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u8	It is good to see that the VVD actually embraces this compromise, this European Commission proposal and therefore also agrees to the transfer of these powers to the European Commission. Mr Koopmans talks about security of supply. An important question for me is how much, what percentage of those existing pipelines have already been used?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u9	I hope that Mr Sjoerdsma will not use this debate to ask me some sort of quiz question. If he's got quiz questions, I hope he puts them to his associates. If he has actual questions, I hope he will ask them to the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u10	It is an essential argument. If you are in favour of security of supply, you should also check whether the existing pipelines are already being used to the maximum. Do we really need a new pipeline on top of Nord Stream 1, on top of the pipelines running through Ukraine and Belarus? I shall then give the answer to Mr Koopmans. That is no, because the capacity used does not exceed 50%. In other words, there is enormous space. Even if demand from the European Union almost doubled, which I consider unlikely...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u11	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u12	...even in a very severe winter, you can use those pipelines. That brings me to the question: what does this pipeline, on top of Nord Stream 1, of which only half is used, actually have to add to the security of supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u13	In my view, Mr Sjoerdsma gives his own answer here, at least if he had finished his sentence. What are we talking about here? There's gonna be an extra pipeline on top of the pipelines that already exist. Apart from how the pipelines that are already there are used, it is clear that, if you put an extra one next to them, you have less to worry about the pipelines that are already there and how they are used. I can't make it any easier for Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u14	This is pipeline politicians of the higher order, I believe. One of the central points in Mr Koopmans' speech is: Nord Stream 2 doesn't make us more dependent on Russian gas, does it? I understand that, don't I? The question is whether he recognizes that the construction of Nord Stream 2 has very great implications, for example for the relationship between Russia and Ukraine or the relationship between Russia and other Eastern European countries, and that this also affects the interests of countries like the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr Van Ojik has listened carefully to what I have said, at least in part. Indeed, if you already have pipelines with Russia now that are going not to the Netherlands but to Germany and via Ukraine; there are all routes... and you put one with it, then you don't become more dependent. If there are any more shops nearby, we will not be more dependent on one of those shops, but we simply have more choice or, I say halfway towards Mr Sjoerdsma, you will be less dependent on this or that other shop. On the question of what this means for the relationship with Ukraine, I said: I am very pleased that agreements are now being made to ensure that Ukraine's position as a port of transit is not unnecessarily weakened. I also asked, as Mr Van Ojik said earlier, what is the status of these agreements? I am very curious, as is Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u16	I am almost certain that the Foreign Minister will confirm it in due course: the state of these talks is poor. The relationship between Russia and Ukraine is very bad. Of course, Mr Koopmans knows this as well as we all do. The chances of Ukraine getting hurt in any way by Nord Stream 2 are not that imaginary. It's very big. It's very likely. So the question is what should we think in that light of a project like Nord Stream 2, except that we are just saying: it does not increase our dependence on Russian gas. Because our dependence on Russian gas is growing every day. That's not because of Nord Stream 2. This may be due to all kinds of other factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u17	Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u18	The question is what political consequences he sees, knowing that the relationship between Russia and Ukraine is as bad as it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u19	I have already said that this additional pipeline is an additional option, an additional delivery option, so it does not create additional dependence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u21	Well, I wanted to give Mr Van Ojik the rest of the answer, but if you don't have to, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u22	Well, not too extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u23	But he can still give the rest of the answer, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u24	If it's short, please, but he shouldn't repeat everything again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u25	Mr President, you are being extra strict today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u27	I generally appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u28	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u29	But I would like to do justice to Mr Van Ojik and give him his answer. What does this mean, politically? Politically, it means that we ensure security of supply. In the meantime, we must make a political effort to ensure that Ukraine's position is not unnecessarily weakened. But an additional pipeline is just good for the Dutch security of supply. Then, as is happening now, agreements must be made at European level to ensure that this is not at the expense of Ukraine. That's what we're getting at right now. I'm also asking what's going on with it now. That question will be answered soon, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u31	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ojik also said it, and he quoted from the Prime Minister's speech: we must move towards a less naive European Union. That's what the Prime Minister said last week. Less right, more right. That is a plea that could come directly from our electoral programme: a stronger foreign policy, more Europe in the world. But, Mr President, it has also been said that the ministers present would have done well to have heard this plea earlier. Because while Putin was disarming Ukraine piece by piece, while Putin used as a kind of boa constrictor Nord Stream 2 to squeeze the last piece of oxygen from Ukrainian society and economy, while Poland called Nord Stream 2 the Molotov-Ribbentroppact of our time, while the American ambassador imposed sanctions on the mat, this foreign minister maintained for a very long time that this was just a commercial project, while existing pipelines are at best half full and run by the Russian state company Gazprom. Mr. Chairman. Commercially, I find it geopolitically silly to look at it this way. Energy policy is foreign policy. My group has always been clear: Nord Stream 2 is nothing but a geopolitical Russian weapon. We would prefer to see that this project as a whole does not go ahead, but given where it is now and given the kilometres of pipeline already lying on the sea floor, we should then dismantle it by bringing it under European regulation. I also voted in favour of the agreement on the Gas Directive reached in Europe last week. It gives far-reaching control to the Commission through the transfer of powers. It ensures that gas pipelines between Member States and third countries are covered by the same rules as the European Union's internal gas market. I hope, and I expect, that the cabinet will agree to that agreement. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know, like other colleagues, what the effects of this agreement are in practice. It will have no effect on the construction, so much is clear, but what effect will it have on the commissioning of that pipeline? The requirement that 50% of that pipeline can be used can, for example, be used by parties other than Gazprom. Is that gonna happen in practice? Or does that mean that it cannot be put into use at all? What power of perseverance does the Commission really have to say: no, it can't be that way? Can Germany ask for an exemption on its own? What are the chances of that waiver? Because let's make sure that this deal doesn't mean Nord Stream 2 can count on exemption. Mr. Chairman. I ask that, of course, Mr Koopmans rightly referred to this because of Ukraine's precarious transit position. Of course, we were not set up to protect Ukraine's transit position, but we must realise that Ukraine's geopolitical position is so important at the moment that we certainly should not undermine it. One thing is certain: Nord Stream 2 will undermine Ukraine's position. How will the European Union prevent this from happening? How are we going to ensure that this position is maintained? Mr. Chairman. For the Minister for Economic Affairs in particular, I have the following questions, because the ultimate solution to this problem is, of course, that the European Union adheres to the climate agreement, that we reach that leading group and that 55% reduction is within our grasp. What about the assignment given to the CDA and D66 Prime Minister during the General Political Reviews? How far along is the Prime Minister with the breakaway? Finally. The American ambassador is here; I would like to welcome him to this house and threaten him with sanctions. I do not think that is appropriate in the alliance, but I would like to ask this cabinet what it thinks of the attitude of the United States. What is the risk of these sanctions actually being implemented? What are the consequences if these sanctions are actually adopted? Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u33	Thank you, Mr President. In the Netherlands an open battle is being waged on the use of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, which is not yet operational. The American ambassador has called for a boycott in fierce words and waving the possible sanctions. The Russian ambassador then launched a counterattack. He said that the Netherlands is free to choose between the Russian gas and the approximately 40% more expensive American gas. Although the message of both ambassadors was completely different, they were driven by the same motive. Both the American and his Russian counterparts stood up for their own national interest. Mr. Chairman. That is exactly what we need to do here: to defend the national interest and that of the Dutch citizens. These citizens are currently hard hit in their pockets by the Rutte III cabinet. The VAT, the care costs, the rents: everything goes up; the costs shoot through the roof. And the energy bill is also getting much higher. At first there was that fake news from the cabinet that it will not be that bad, but now it turns out that in 2019 the average household will have to cut down as much as €334 in energy costs. Should we end up with far-reaching or perhaps even complete closure of the cheap Russian gas for the households, who are already getting a peppered energy bill in the mailbox? The answer from the PVV Group is no. I therefore ask the Minister to say that a boycott of Russian gas is not an option and that is excluded by our government. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is in favour of Nord Stream 2. The Netherlands is increasingly dependent on gas imports. That's a fact. If that could be cheap gas from Russia, then that would be nicely taken. You can't eat russophobia from a lower energy bill. And we need gas, also from abroad. That will be more than ever in the coming years. The Netherlands, as we know, has been a net importer of gas for the first time in decades since 2018. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the safety aspect is also important. Let me be clear about that. It is certainly not the case that we should put all the eggs in Putin's basket. We must not become too dependent on any country in terms of our energy supply: not Russia, not the US, not Norway, nor any other country. That is why the widest possible supply of gas is by definition a good thing, with a good balance between our security interests and our citizens' wallets. What possibilities, I ask the rulers, do the government see to promote this? Diversification of gas suppliers seems to be an attractive perspective. What is the government going to do to promote that? And on what time can we expect action? Mr President, I will conclude. Let us not be scared by people who cry out that Russia will just shut down our gas tap. That has never been and never has been. Moreover, we cannot turn it off either, for the simple reason that households in the Netherlands already saw their energy bill explode in 2019. That cheap Russian gas must therefore continue to flow, as others from Washington, Brussels or Ukraine may think. Russian gas will continue to be part of our energy supply for the time being. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u34	The fact that Mr De Roon is in favour of Nord Stream 2 does not surprise anyone, I think. His party leader, Wilders, travelled to Moscow with a friendship pin from the Netherlands-Russia. His party, together with the Democracy Forum, did not join the consensus in this parliament that it was necessary to make Russia state-appointed and felt that there was still some doubt. In fact, his party is trying to trivialize any criticism of Russia. That is why it is not surprising that Mr De Roon is now in favour of Nord Stream 2. My question is what Dutch interest is served by this. What benefit, concrete, tangible advantage, does this bring to the Netherlands? For there will be a lot of rubles flowing into Mr Putin's pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u35	That the gas is cheaper for our citizens and that the gas necessary for the energy of our companies is cheaper: that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u36	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u37	I was a little worried that there wouldn't really be an answer, but the answer isn't coming. The gas will not be cheaper via Nord Stream 2. Russian gas is Russian gas, whether it flows through Ukraine or through Germany. It doesn't flow directly to the Netherlands and it doesn't get cheaper. It's really about the security, the security of this continent. Look at the way Putin is playing this continent apart, occupying the Sea of Azov and destabilizing Ukraine. Do you also think it is a good idea from a security point of view that we should play into Putin's hands in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u38	I have just made it clear that the alternative, the American gas that is generously offered to us, is 40% more expensive than the Russian gas. So we shouldn't go on that road. We have to go for that cheaper Russian gas, whether we want it or not. Our citizens want that, because they want a low gas bill and not a high one. That gas bill is already too high, thanks to your party. We shouldn't go on that road any further. The diversification appeals to me, but I would like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u40	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about Russian gas, Russian missiles and the American pressure on the European boiler. How do we deal with the increased tensions and instability around Europe and with a world of geopolitics, power politics and authoritarian regimes knocking on our door? Democracy, free trade, human rights, a rule-based world order and peaceful conflict resolution are fine principles, but unfortunately they are no longer self-evident, not even in Europe. They certainly are not in authoritarian countries such as Russia and China. Russia is destabilizing Ukraine. Other colleagues have already spoken about this. Russia speaks threatening language to the West, arms itself, carries out cyber attacks, spies and blackmails. And it also violates the INF Convention, the symbol of post-Cold War disarmament. According to the Frankfurter Allgemeine, Madam President, Russia would now have more banned cruise missiles than has been adopted so far. The newspaper claims, based on intelligence sources, that Russia should have at least 64 SSC-8 rockets. I'd like to get a response from the Foreign Minister. Can he confirm or deny that? What's his reaction to that? Both the US and Russia have now denounced the INF Convention. It continues to hope for a miracle and it will take six months for the treaty to come to an end. The odds of it being saved, I don't think it's very big, but we shouldn't despair. What we should not do is mirror Russia's behaviour and thus station similar missiles. And there must certainly be no new nuclear weapons in Europe. However, we need to consider counter-measures. The Russia we were just talking about is supplying Europe with gas. That was also the case in the Cold War. It doesn't shy away the use of gas as a pressure agent. Pipeline policy, that's what Prime Minister Rutte called it in his Churchill speech. However, that is something we must put into perspective, because Russia is also heavily dependent on the revenue it gets from Europe for that. Russia is also trying to take Ukraine into an economic stranglehold by blocking the Sea of Azov and thus Ukrainian ports. In that geopolitical perspective, we can place the American criticism of Nord Stream 2. A new gas pipeline around Ukraine through the Baltic Sea to Germany could be called a geostrategic threat to our best friends and allies. That's how the American ambassador described it in a strong open letter. The ambassador, present here, referred to sanctions against Dutch companies involved in Nord Stream 2. The CDA opposes the extraterritorial effects of US sanctions. It's okay to disagree, even without hitting directly. That is why it is right that we should also have an American-Dutch parliamentary friendship group, of which you will soon chair the inaugural meeting. We have many partners in the world with whom we cooperate and trade, I can say to Russia, but also to the United States. That's what we're about as a country. We want a good mix of energy not to be dependent on anything and therefore also a mix of different countries. Russia is such a country and the gas belongs in that mix. However, Trump has a point about Russia's behaviour and about the possible serious consequences of Nord Stream 2. The EU can ensure that the conditions of the Energy Union also apply to pipelines under construction from third countries, such as Nord Stream 2. That is what the agreement is for. The cabinet would like to agree and the CDA supports that line. That is why I ask the Minister how the cabinet views the relationship with the US as a result of this agreement and the consequences for Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u41	Thank you. You have also drawn attention to the INF Convention, but this is the subject of a separate debate. That is not part of the debate on tonight's subject. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u42	Mr. Chairman. The American ambassador in the Netherlands, Pete Hoekstra, found it necessary at the end of last year to send an activist opinion piece to De Telegraaf. He denounced the Dutch involvement in the construction of a new gas pipeline from Russia in collaboration with Germany, the Nord Stream 2 project. They even warned of possible sanctions against Dutch companies, and those warnings actually continue. It was not the first time that Mr Hoekstra got involved in matters on which he could sometimes better keep his mouth shut. Previously he criticized the Dutch association with Russia regarding the taking down of flight MH17. I'm curious to see what our minister's message has been to the ambassador. Did he tell him, for example, that we like the United States, that Trump is a special man, but that we don't always follow them blindly? Of course, the American ambassador wants to defend his interests, the interests of the United States and also the geopolitical interests in Europe. Of course he wants to sell more expensive gas to us, to Europe. And of course the Russians want to expand their own interests and influence in the region and, of course, they want this project to continue. And of course it is the large, polluting industry that is serious and they want to continue this project because they are not under any obligation to abandon the polluting fossil industry. That while everyone knows that a radical change is needed to bring about the transition from fossil to renewable energy. One of the 15,000 climate strikers or skippers, as some call them two weeks ago on the Malieveld, put it as follows: The Netherlands hasn't carried out a bag for years; that transition has to be much faster and that transition must be just. That would mean introducing a CO tax and creating a green revolution, where the burden on the polluters and the lusts lies with us, the community, while it is now the other way round. We also see this in the ever-increasing energy bill. So, Mr President, it is clear to my party that we need to get rid of the gas. Investments of billions of euros in old fossil energy should actually go to clean energy. We're rolling down in Groningen and not for nothing. Winning gas in other countries such as Russia and the United States also has a devastating effect on local populations there. The problems we have here are elsewhere too. So I don't understand why this pipeline should be needed. You say: in the longer term, we want to launch a green revolution and switch from polluting industries to clean energy supplies? My question to the cabinet is: is there a plan for total... Can the Cabinet exclude that the grant goes to Shell or other companies participating in the Nord Stream 2 project? Finally, Mr President. Yesterday, the EU would have reached an agreement on stricter monitoring of gas imports. This would also strengthen the monitoring of Nord Stream 2. What are these appointments? What is the position of the cabinet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u43	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I see that the rulers need a suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u44	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u45	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ojik has been very involved in the new directive. He's just described exactly what the outcome is. The Netherlands has made a small reservation because we wanted to wait for this debate with Parliament. We therefore felt that this reservation was appropriate. It is true that a compromise has been found in the sense that a Member State can negotiate, but is being reviewed by the Commission. I'll get back to you on that. One of the important questions I wanted to start with was: why did we now agree? Yes, I can tell the wonderful story about that that we now find that it is a huge improvement compared to our chip, but that is not true in all honesty. We had three objections in the chip. Half of them we brought in. That's more than nothing, but there's no reason to put out the flag in relation to the chip, I'll be honest. It is important, however, that I am, of course, personally the cause of a certain hesitation in removing us from Germany here. I've made sure Germany gets less gas. They have also been very generous in reducing the demand for Groninger gas. Then it is also neat that you at least ensure that there are no hesitations at European level about the security of supply during the period when we still need gas. That period ends, but in front of us there is still a period where we need gas. So it was significant not only that this Chamber wanted us to support that amendment of the Gas Directive, but also that by now every other country, including Germany, had agreed to it. A vote against might also have made little material sense. Those are the considerations. It was also stated in Coreper that the proposal was supported by a certain reservation, because this debate had not yet taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u46	Yes, I see Mr Van Ojik, but do you have any points you would like to address now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u47	Yes, I wanted to answer the other questions from Mr Van Ojik, among others, on the application of the directive and the compromise on exemptions, for example. It is very obvious that Germany should ask the European Commission to be allowed to conduct this negotiation. The European Commission may be able to focus on these issues, but Germany is in principle the negotiator. The exemption shall be granted by the party building the pipeline. That could be Gazprom's underlying owner. This could apply for an exemption, for example for third party access. I mention one of the things that is part of the directive. Germany might agree in the negotiations that this third party access is appropriate, but the final judgment is still the European Commission's responsibility. He'll check it out. Where would she be able to test that? For example, it could look at the impact on the internal market. Let's take third party access as an example. If there is an exemption, does the fact that there is only one party supplying that pipeline have an impact on the internal market? It may also be that the Commission considers even more sophisticated that it could have an impact on other negotiations on other pipelines. That could also be a consideration. Furthermore, in general, the security of supply of the Union or a Member State is, of course, particularly at stake. These are the criteria that the Commission has set itself. Mr Van Ojik asked me whether it is likely that there will be an exemption, although he knew that he might not get an answer. No exemption has yet been requested and I am unable to do the Commission's work. I can guess by looking at the criteria that the Commission could reasonably use, but since the negotiations do not yet exist, there is still no result. So we don't have a review yet. I find it difficult to judge myself from this place whether it is very likely that any exemption, which has not yet been requested, will be granted. I would like to say that it is actually the same as it is now doing internally, with the exception of the fact that the Commission still has a key role to play. So the procedure, such a negotiation, is not very different from how the directive works for the Member States themselves. But now there's no review. In fact, it's kind of the practice we do internally, but with a lock on it. In this connection, Mr Sjoerdsma wondered whether the Commission would have power of perseverance. Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u48	I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u49	Maybe I can answer this question first, because it is part of the argument. I'll just finish this off about the waivers. Then we've got everything together. It is up to the President, of course, but Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the Commission's power of perseverance. Of course there is, because if there is no agreement, there is no gas either. That is clear: you have a directive or not. Then there was Mr Van Ojik's question as to whether there is any chance that the pipeline will be ready before the amended directive can be launched, because then we still have him under the old conditions. That's a very small chance. He's halfway there. According to the experts, it does not appear that the pipeline is fully operational when the new Gas Directive enters into force. It will therefore come ashore under the modified conditions. That is what I had to say about the directive and its impact on the various derogations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u50	I would like to thank the Minister for the clarity about what exactly happened. We actually had three objections. Half an objection has been met and two and a half have not been met. But then we agreed, because voting against as the only one makes no sense. Let me get this straight. It is a credit to the Minister that he is so factually reporting on this to the Chamber, but of course it is a bit strange. The Chamber gave a ruling in April of last year. The cabinet has always opposed arguments, which I did not agree with, to that statement and said that it was in a different position. On 7 February, the cabinet repeated this in a letter through the rulers and on 8 February, it was all different. Then I think the question is: what happened between February 7th and February 8th?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u51	The night between February 7th and 8th I can no longer verbatim remember. There is one part of my summary that Mr Van Ojik does not mention for a moment, but it also weighs. That is that the original situation was, of course, that Germany did not agree to this. We felt obliged to Germany in a number of areas, such as energy, especially in the field of gas. Germany can now agree to this. That too is important. I have to say it again: Germany is a partner to whom I owe great gratitude. My colleague Altmaier helped me to reduce the gas demand for low-caloric Groninger gas in Germany faster. That's what I got down on my knees for. He helped arrange that. All kinds of private parties in Germany have also helped. We have, of course, put Germany before an import issue. It wasn't entirely for nothing and in that you have a certain responsibility to bear. So that's the point that counts. Let me be honest with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u52	I understand that Germany and the Netherlands have been building together on this issue since the beginning. However, that is not yet an answer to the question of exactly what has happened. One day it was said that this is a private project, that we do not want to change the rules of the game, and that this should not be regulated in Brussels, but that countries have an autonomous choice. Those were the arguments. In the letter of 7 February, these two rulers referred to it without any reserve. The next day there is an agreement and all these arguments are suddenly off the table. Is that because Germany's going down? I assume that the Netherlands is also self-sufficient in balancing. I would ask the Minister once again what has been the event, the discussion or the consideration that brought the Netherlands to a diametrically different position on 8 February than on 7 February. I haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u53	There's not a lot of diametrics in it. The objections to the remaining two and a half points remain. At some point you take it for granted, when you see that the playing field has changed, that your main partner can live with it, and when you see that there is no longer any more in the barrel. That is how Europe works. By the way, that's how Dutch politics works. You haven't been able to get rid of all your objections. You see at some point the endgame and you decide to make a final position. We did. That's not so crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u54	I would like to congratulate the Minister on his disarming honesty. I think we can use it more often in Parliament to discuss very factually why something happened as it happened. The Minister says honestly: okay, not all our objections have been lifted, but we are going for this now. But the Minister's putting something else on the table. He mentions his talks with the German partner about low-caloric gas and the problems in Groningen. I don't see that in the BNC sheet and the letters from the cabinet about this piece. Let me just quote the BNC sheet: 'The cabinet has doubts about the added value of this proposal'. Subsidiarity scores negative. Proportionality scores negative. Let me get this straight. Was this based on actual substantive resistance to the proposal, or was it written down in such a way because of the, otherwise clear, interests which the Minister put forward here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u55	The objections are written down in complete business and in substance. I dare to make it even more embarrassing: they still apply, of course. If we had to judge it now, the objections would work the same way again. The Dutch position was based not only on those objections, but also on the German position and the Dutch position. That went hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u56	I do not share those objections, but the Minister knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u57	No, but okay. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u58	That's a disagreement. We will end this debate today, because the cabinet is going to agree. That's a good thing. The question to this minister is why he did not put the German side of the story on the table. Why wasn't it mentioned in the letters? I don't think that would have changed my position, but it might have increased my understanding of the cabinet's position slightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u59	The German interests were covered by the arguments. One of the arguments was that Member States have their own position there to determine their energy mix. Well, that's straight into each other. If I had been asked to look specifically at Germany, I could have given you the answer. But it's written neatly in business. It's not an opportunity argument. Honestly, I'm still in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u61	I don't think it's the happiest day; I'd rather have it different. But there's a chamber motion and there's no blocking minority anymore. It is clear that the Netherlands alone will not make the other two and a half points. Let's just be realistic about that. If you're gonna join the European adventure, you're gonna have to take your losses once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u63	If we all make up a little bit now and then, it will ultimately be for the benefit of cooperation. But then the big question is what this means for dependence on gas. What does this mean for the dependency of the Netherlands, for the EU's dependence or for the dependence of the two on each other? What sources do we have? All kinds of questions have been asked about that. Let's talk about the Dutch situation first. I'm going from small to big. The Dutch situation is that we win. We're winning gas. We're winning gas in the Groninger Field. Now that's 20 billion cube. You have read in the newspaper that this will go to zero in 2030, but I will tell you much more: from the second half of 2022 there is hardly anything left of it. That's how fast it is. That means we have a chance to be at zero by 2030. In any case, it does not represent much more from the second half of 2022. So that goes down by at least 20 billion cubic metres until 2030. Then we have the small fields. From the point of view of security, we will only continue to win where it can be safe. But we know that this will be reduced to zero by 2050, because then these fossil resources must be excluded. The natural path of the small fields corresponds to that. We are now winning 20 billion cuubs, and by 2030 there will be 5 to 10 billion cuubs left. So that too goes down hard. We're exporting about 11 billion cubs now. But by 2030, that will be gone. And then there's another drop in consumption. We are now using 30 billion cuubs; in 2030 we will need 23 billion cuubs without coal-fired power stations. What does that mean? We are now exporter of 11 billion cubs. Soon we'll be importers of 15 billion cubs. That is a deterioration of the gas balance by 26 billion cubic metres, by the Netherlands alone. The whole of Europe's gas balance is mixed up with 26 billion cubs. That is our contribution to reducing the gas balance in Europe. So we're gonna have to buy gas. And let me be clear: because we are still exporting a lot and we are going to win less, now comes about the time that we also have to import. That is not yet a net import, because we are now importing gas to export our 11 billion cube. In not too many years, there will come a time when we are also net importers. But the moment of import is getting faster, because we have to meet our export obligations. What's the market like? So we are going to enter the European market, not as a seller anymore, but as a buyer. The gas market of the European Union is 480 billion cubs, mostly Modo. It's kind of funny that the billions wiggle back and forth a little bit, depending on what source you use. I'll get to that later. There are all kinds of sources and they're billions side by side, very wonderful. But 480 billion cube is the most reliable number I could find. According to the estimates made at the time, that number would fall slightly. So we're going down a little bit to 450 billion cube. What wasn't there yet? The Belgian Atomausstieg was not there yet, and neither was the German Atomausstieg and the German Kohleusstieg. So there is a good chance that we will eventually have a gas market that is at least stable or even increasing until 2030. However, there is no significant reduction in EU gas consumption. How much of that 480 billion cube do we produce ourselves? That is 130 billion cubic metres, which goes down considerably to 2040: from 130 billion cubic metres to 50 billion cubic metres. So we're gonna win a lot less. The balance sheet is deteriorating considerably, at least by 100 billion cubic metres. The Netherlands contributes 26 billion cuub to this, so we cause a quarter of the deterioration in the balance sheet. We import a lot of gas as the EU: 350 billion cubic metres. So by 2030, that should be more: 400 billion cube or more. Where did that gas come from? Depending on what source you're looking at, there's now 140 billion cubs or 175 billion cuubs coming from Russia. There is capacity up to 210 billion cubic metres, so part of that capacity is still unused. But a very large proportion of imports into the EU, 40% to 50%, is Russian gas. Of course there are other sources, like the Norwegians. Depending on who you believe, it comes to 85 to 107 billion cubs, but they don't have much more space. In fact, that's just dropping. So we're not getting gas from Norway anymore. The Norwegians also say that more gas from Norway is not in the mix until 2030. Then there are Algeria, Qatar, Nigeria and Libya. It is clear that the energy does not come from our favourite holiday country. Because whatever choice you make, it can hardly be combined with a holiday. Sometimes I can't make a choice between those countries. This means by 2030 that we need at least 50 billion cube and perhaps 100 billion cube extra. So that's not going to be from Norway. There is rack in other sources, such as Algeria and Libya, and Turkmenistan could also report to the European gas market. So there are sources, but the greatest upward potential is in LNG. But in all honesty, there are more parties who can use LNG and who may also be willing to pay higher prices for it. In any case, the basic costs of LNG are much higher. But it is unlikely that we will be able to import 50 to 100 billion cubic metres of extra gas and at the same time reduce these 40% to 50% Russian imports to zero. So we in Europe are dependent on Russian gas and we will remain dependent on it until 2030. The Netherlands has not been affected by this so far, because the Netherlands was a net exporter, but we are now about to become an importer, and that also makes us dependent on the European gas market, and thus on Russian gas. I would like to say that we will be because, both in the smaller fields and in the Groningen field, yields are falling. I would also like to say that this dependence is not due to the Nord Stream 2 leadership. Providing extra options can never work against you. A Nobel Prize was awarded once: the Black-Scholes option theory. I'm not going against Nobel Prizes. An additional option is never negative, but we must not fool ourselves: we will soon be dependent on a European gas market and the European gas market will also depend on Russian gas. Mr Van Ojik's climate demand is relevant. Important to know is that gas, also for the Netherlands, is really a transition fuel, with the emphasis on transition. We don't want to get out of gas by 2050. We want to be away from gas and then we go for sustainable solutions. The cabinet tries to grope with a climate agreement. This will require some discussion in society, but everyone knows that we will eventually have to go there. That's the most climate-friendly option. Shortly afterwards, Dutch gas comes. That is also the reason why I use my heart and soul, and not always under cheers, also on Dutch gas extraction where it is safe to do so. I was the first to say that this can no longer be safe in Groningen, but that is not the main issue. It's not like we're disconnecting the Groningen field because we have sustainable ambitions. No, we still need gas in the coming years and where it can be safe in the Netherlands, we continue to win gas. And by 2050 it's over. Dutch gas is by far the most sustainable solution in the gas market. Next comes pipeline gas from elsewhere, then comes LNG and ultimately it is those damn coal plants that we have to phase out, because with coal plants there is no climate goal to be achieved from Paris. As far as I am concerned, that is the situation on the gas market. In the balance sheet there is the limited influence of Nord Stream 2. Even if you do not use that extra volume of that Russian gas, Mr Sjoerdsma thinks that we should not do so, it is still beneficial for price formation, because it is always the most expensive and last alternative that the price determines throughout the market. If that reserve capacity is for pipeline gas, it will affect the price in a more favourable way than if you are attached to increasingly expensive and remote LNG sources. So it might be good for price formation, but I do not want to predict prices here until 2030. It's something that ultimately goes to your advantage when you look at security of supply, and not at your disadvantage. Mr President, there are a few other questions that were not specifically about gas, but about climate. Mr. Sjoerdsma asked who exactly our friends are at the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u64	Before you continue... Mrs. Karabulut is standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u65	I'm listening to a minister who says we have to get rid of the gas eventually. We already have Russian gas, so there is no need for that new gas pipeline. Why is industry still investing billions in the construction of Nord Stream 2? What role has the cabinet been given, given the task we all have to carry out that green revolution for future generations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u66	We do not promote sustainability by preventing private parties acting in accordance with the law from making a certain investment and thereby slowing down the offer. What we need to do is work on alternatives to demand. We do not do this by taking all kinds of statements in Europe about a Russian pipeline, but we do so by agreeing a climate agreement with the parties here to ensure that Dutch people are not forced by a supply restriction, but helped by things on the demand side, can switch to other forms of energy in such a way that their wallet is not dented, that their lives go on, that they understand that it is inevitable, but also possible. That's what we all have to do here. We still have a hard time with each other, but that is the real challenge. As far as I'm concerned, that's separate from Nord Stream 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u67	That's not isolated at all. When the Minister says that there is a challenge and points to the households, and then companies under which Shell is letting go of investing billions in the fossil industry again, I wonder what this minister is doing and what the bill is going to be. Again the question: why is this even necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u68	The construction costs of this pipeline do not reach households in this way. We need to ensure that the investments that these households have to make, in a neat way and as far as I am concerned, are returned to these houses without hassle and carelessness. That's our challenge. That pipeline has very little to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u69	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u70	Finally. I just want an explanation from this minister. He says, "I want to get rid of the gas." By 2030 it will have to be phased out and by 2050 it will have to go all the way to zero. How are we going to do that and how does it relate to this new pipeline, which is based on the old model, which industry is still investing billions in, because it deserves it? How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u71	Someone's free to try to sell something. It's up to us to make sure we don't buy some things anymore and that we're going to heat our houses in a different way. If we are to achieve the sustainability of our built environment by acting against a Russian pipeline, then in the year 2050 we are really nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u72	I want to see how far you are with the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u73	I still have a very limited number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u74	Then I suggest you answer it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u75	Yes, very limited. Mr Sjoerdsma asked me about our 55% coalition. Apart from us, there are seven countries in favour of an increase, which have also expressed genuinely their support for an increase in the European objective. It is no secret that our mp is still in this with Macron, but there are also other countries that have spoken out for increasing the European objective. There are two other countries that have even mentioned 55% as a European target, namely Sweden and Finland, but there are five other countries that are also in favour of increasing that target. There are also countries that have spoken out against this. But we sometimes hear that under the hood, too, I cannot always tell you that there is movement in those positions. But roughly one third of the Member States have not yet taken a final position, which means that the competition has not yet ended and that we will continue. We will continue to appeal to all our European colleagues and we will tempt them to accept the idea that the 55% target ultimately fits better with the 1.5oC than the 49% target. That is what we are doing, and we are now standing on eight Member States, a lot of undecided Member States and a few Member States that are on the move. I have one more question from Mr De Roon. He wants to know how we work on diversification. We are working on diversification by, among other things, enabling the construction of LNG terminals. We don't invest in LNG terminals as a country, just like we don't invest in the pipeline we're discussing here, but the LNG terminal in Rotterdam handles around 100 ships a year. That can be just the balancing factor that will allow us to get affordable gas into this market in that intermediate period in a manageable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u76	Thank you. Has there been a question left, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u77	I'm just thinking, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u78	You can always think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u79	... because I wanted to answer honestly your question as to whether a question remained. But I have one more question for the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u80	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u81	...not so much because it stayed down, but because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u82	...you just made it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u83	...I still have that question. The Minister has just outlined, with all these figures, that we are going to be dependent on Russian gas in my own words, at least for the next ten or fifteen years, for 40% to 50%. Pretty much, huh? The Prime Minister spoke in Zurich about these pipeline politicians, and I liked that. He said: we are too dependent on Russian gas; we have to conclude supply contracts with all kinds of other countries and whole continents. The question to the Minister is: how is that statement made by the Prime Minister in Zurich being translated into concrete policies of this minister and this cabinet in order to be able to come up with such measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u84	We are, of course, pressured with other European countries to ensure that there is sufficient supply capacity, including in terms of LNG. Whether you conclude contracts on this is, of course, a decision of each individual party. As long as the gas market is sufficiently liquid, as long as the supply is sufficient and as long as there is little tension between supply and demand, long-term contracts are of course less useful. Long-term contracts are especially nervous about closing in a displacement market, in which you can see that there is a kind of chair dance going on. Then someone will always stand and that's why you want to get on your seat as soon as possible. As long as the market is sufficiently liquid, it is at the moment, and that is the one with all these new sources expected to continue in the future too; you have a correspondingly less need for those long-term contracts. Well, that's including the Russians. But long-term contracts are a matter for individual parties buying gas anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u85	Thank you. You have one more interruption, Mr. Van Ojik, but the Secretary of State still has to do. So you can choose when to make that interruption. I'm going to see the Secretary of State now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u86	Mrs Karabulut is now asking a question outside the microphone. But I'm not the chairman, so I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u87	No. Then why don't you just sit down? I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order not to leave Mr Van Ojik in suspense for too long, I will start by answering his question, which was also put by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert, how we are working to strengthen Ukraine's position as a transit country. Ukraine has significant revenue from transit across its territory. That is also why I have previously informed the Chamber that it is our full commitment to guarantee that role, through the European Commission, which is negotiating it. By the way, that is not the only thing we are doing to help Ukraine. Of course, it is also very important that the Ukrainian economy strengthens and diversifys at all, because it is, of course, uncomfortable when your economy is heavily dependent on one large source of income, such as gas transit. Thus, in the framework of the neighbourhood programme, a total of 12 billion in loans and 1 billion in grants have been provided by the European Union in recent years to strengthen the Ukrainian economy. And, of course, a trade agreement has also been concluded. How are these conversations going? The same three gentlemen asked. The good news is the parties are on the table. But we know, of course, and that will undoubtedly also be the background to that question, that the relationship between the Russian Federation and Ukraine is not easy and that these talks are therefore quite difficult. But, again, the Dutch and European commitment is that these talks do lead to agreement. Mr Van Ojik then asks: what if there is no agreement on this transit? In all honesty, the kind of honesty that Mr Wiebes did just now, you end up in the ratio that it is ultimately a commercial project. Both Mr Van Ojik and Mr Sjoerdsma asked again why the cabinet has always described it in such a way in letters. That is because the point of reference for the Dutch Government of a pipeline which does not cross our territory and which does not contain tax money is only the point of reference of the directive on commercial projects, as more directives relate to commercial projects. It is indeed a commercial project with geopolitical consequences, but the observation that there are geopolitical consequences does not lead to an additional target. That would be the case if it ran over our continental shelf, as is the case for Germany and Denmark, for example. That would also be the case if there is Dutch taxpayers' money in it, which is not the case. But the mere observation that there are geopolitical consequences is true in itself, but it does not lead to a different point of reference than the point of reference that it is a commercial project, for which at the time a European directive was in the making and is still in the making, but is closer to completion. Mr Van Ojik asked how we should see it against the backdrop of the mp speech. This was asked by Mr Wiebes just in the event of interruption. The mp speech is about the European Union becoming too dependent on a small number of countries, creating room for pipeline politicians, and is then calling for that palette to be extended to that number of countries around the world that he mentioned. This is a logical approach from the point of view of risk spread. Fortunately, the gas market is currently wide and liquid. Mr Wiebes pointed out that they are not necessarily all holiday countries, but that does not prevent a foreign minister from visiting a large part of the list of countries themselves. I believe that I have in any case spoken to the ministers responsible of all the countries mentioned by Mr Wiebes, if I have not already visited them myself. These contracts themselves are commercial, but of course it is important that we, as governments, have intensive contacts. In fact, all the speakers asked me how I look at the criticism of the US, and the ambassador is here with his staff and the possibility of sanctions against Dutch companies. Here again, the observation that it is a commercial project is again important. In a free country, it is not for the government to assess why companies invest money in this or provide services to it. That's up to those companies themselves. They must do so within the law and international treaties; they must do so. There are a number of European sanctions against the Russian Federation, but they do not concern this. Those companies must assess the risks and potential returns themselves. In a free country and a free economy, I know how much the United States is attached to a free economy. If there were sanctions, which are fortunately not concrete, but I too have read the statements, then we would find that very wrong. Companies comply with Dutch and international regulations. Then, of course, it is not appropriate to impose sanctions on this. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u89	It was not the first time this activist ambassador has been involved in our affairs, which are indeed a domestic matter. Today there was another extensive interview in the AD. I asked what this minister's opinion was and what message he had to the ambassador.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u90	I'll speak to the ambassador regularly and openly. Then we have points on which we do agree and which we do not agree on. I don't find that strange in a good and intensive relationship that has existed for hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u91	Fine, fine, of course. But does the Minister consider that this is interference in our domestic affairs? Or does he say, well, this should be possible; let's keep going like this? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u92	I think I have just gone into this in detail. I have indicated that in a free country and a free economy it is not up to the government to intervene in the project itself. To be honest, I would not know on what basis it is for a government to intervene in a rule of law. That seems to me to be a clear answer to the Ambassador's statement. I have just made a clear statement on the possibility of sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u93	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u94	Let me turn it around for a second. Suppose tomorrow the Russian ambassador criticizes a trade relationship between our government and the United States. What would the Minister's message be to that ambassador?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u95	Look, this is something that... I have the pleasure of debating with Mrs Karabulut a few times a day. A few times a day she asks me the question: ask that. In the previous debate I had with her today, she also asked me the question: ask it. She knows that I always give her the answer that I don't answer questions. Luckily, she's laughing now. She usually gets a little bossy, but I like this better. But the answer remains: I don't go into questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u96	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u97	You may respond to this very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u98	Yes, very briefly. I wish it would be a few times a day. I think it's fine to debate more often. However, the Minister's substantive answers are sometimes a little disappointing. That's the lake. But I suggest that we debate more often. I see the Minister is enjoying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u99	Sure! A minister, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Mr Wiebes, has no greater pleasure than being able to debate in your midst, especially if Mrs Karabulut is there. There!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u100	So, that was just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u101	Yeah, it's in the Acts now. That won't come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u102	I don't think I can get past this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u103	No, no. Well, Mr. Van Ojik. Give it a shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u104	I'll be modest. I actually wanted to get back to the point: suppose Ukraine is ultimately going to suffer from Nord Stream 2. This is not unthinkable in the current situation. Then the Minister says that it is after all another private project. That is one of the reasons why Nord Stream is such an interesting example. So we don't really have a point of contact to do anything. If geopolitics clash with private investment, which is quite often the case, then we must finally accept that we are empty-handed, if I understand the Minister correctly. It seems to me to be the very essence of modern foreign policy not to accept it as such and to see what you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u105	This raises a lot of questions, but I start with the question to me: see what you can do. That's what I've been working on. I think it is very important that an economy is diversified, so that the Dutch economy is not dependent on a single energy source. By the way, the government does not buy energy but, as Mr Wiebes also outlined, we do monitor whether the gas market is liquid. From my role I maintain relationships with countries for all kinds of reasons, but also for the reason that they are energy suppliers. So in general, as a country, you must avoid having great dependencies. That was also the central thread in the Prime Minister's speech. I am not in Ukraine's government, but if I were in it, I would ask myself: am I not too dependent? Well, I noticed with you, too, that I started by saying that transit revenues from the existing pipeline are important for Ukraine. That is why the Dutch Government, in particular through the route of the European Commission, which is also doing so on our behalf, is working to prevent Ukraine from leaving. In addition, on the one hand, we have a trade agreement with Ukraine, also on the European route. This has been a major political debate in the Netherlands. In addition, we help develop and diversify the Ukrainian economy along the route of loans and grants. So it is not that we have no eye for it or any other instruments. I'm really throwing that far from me. I indicated that this raises a lot of questions, because then the question to Mr Van Ojik is also a bit the following: now, of course, the President is going to turn his finger on me. Mr Van Ojik notes that in a world where private parties supply energy, there may be geopolitical consequences, but that as a government you do not have immediate targets. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u106	Finally, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u107	The question raised, for example, by the Prime Minister's speech in Zurich is the following. I will remain pure for a moment with the example of Nord Stream 2. Would you, in the extreme case, be prepared to close the Nord Stream 2 crane at the moment you feel that the outing of Ukraine has such geopolitical consequences that you do not want to be partly responsible for that? That's also pipeline politics. It's not just Moscow that's on that crane. There is also a crane in Berlin and perhaps even in The Hague. The question is whether, in a situation where geopolitics can have such great consequences, you are prepared, for example, to intervene on such a point, on your private energy supply in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u108	There is no crane in The Hague for Nord Stream 2. That is why we have indicated from the outset that it is a commercial project that does not run on Dutch territory. We do not therefore have a point of contact along the line of ownership, along the line of taxpayers' money or along the line of licensing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u109	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u110	If we do not buy that gas from Nord Stream 1 or 2, then there is no alternative but to use the pipeline that runs through, for example, Ukraine. Of course, we do have a crane, because as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate has just explained, we currently rely on Russia for almost half of our energy. But there are several ways in which we can get that gas from Russia. It doesn't matter what route that gas comes to us. That's geopolitics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u111	The question is again: who is "we"? The Dutch government does not buy gas. Mr Wiebes is deeper in the gas market technique than I am, but because of the tyranny of the pipe system we cannot see whether a gas molecule has come through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline, through the Nord Stream 2 pipeline or through a Ukraine pipeline. Gas is purchased by commercial energy companies. They enter a pipeline and enter the Netherlands along different routes. However, it is very important for this debate to be clear where the Dutch Government is concerned because it is a debate between Parliament and the government. We just need to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u112	Minister Wiebes began by saying that we thought it reasonable to await the outcome of this debate before we could finally agree to this revision of the Gas Directive. In view of the second term, will the cabinet agree? Because that saves some of the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u113	This is primarily the case with Mr Wiebes, but also on behalf of Mr Wiebes: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u115	I had come to the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u116	Thank you. Mr Van Helvert is interrupting. But don't bring up the INF treaty!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u117	No, excuse me, Madam President. But when we talk about geopolitics and the United States versus Russia, it is hard to avoid mentioning the INF Convention. I will not go into that further, but I would like to ask the following question. The Minister just said about Nord Stream 2 that it is simply an economic project that we have nothing to do with. That on the one hand. On the other hand, in his speech, the Prime Minister was really talking about pipeline politicians and he saw a connection with geopolitical forces working on them. He also talked about the consequences for the situation in Ukraine. Do I understand now that the Foreign Minister, Nord Stream 2, on the one hand, and geopolitics, on the other hand, and the consequences for Ukraine, on the other? And is it true that the Prime Minister sees a connection there? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u118	No, Mr Van Helvert carefully summarizes the discussion. I have just stated in detail in the debate with Mr Van Ojik that Nord Stream 2 is a commercial project from the point of view of the Dutch government's targets: it is not about our territory; there is no tax money in it. We do not buy gas, so the only point of contact is the energy directive which deals with commercial pipelines. In addition, the wider question is whether a country, the Netherlands in this case, is sufficiently resilient in a complicated international playing field: isn't the Netherlands too dependent on one or two energy suppliers? In doing so, the Prime Minister warns that, by phasing out our own Groninger gas, the situation for the Netherlands and also for a number of neighbouring countries arises that we become highly dependent on gas from a limited number of countries. His message is to avoid that. That is also a logical observation. I have just gone into that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u119	Absolutely, I've heard that too, but that's still focused on the question: are we buying gas or not? Will the Netherlands be dependent or not? But I thought the Prime Minister said that in the geopolitical game, of course, he also sees the forces Russia is trying to exert on Ukraine, and that he sees the reaction of the United States, which warns us about Russia, also through the ambassador. I also thought that the Prime Minister saw the consequences that this could have for Ukraine. The geopolitical game is not really a game anymore, but the geopolitical work is something to which the Netherlands relates and in which the Netherlands can play a role. The Foreign Minister, on the other hand, I only hear talk about an economic project, which we have nothing to do with, and I hear only say: if we do not become dependent. I think I can see some light in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u120	In doing so, Mr Van Helvert is failing to discuss the matter. I have also indicated how much the Netherlands is committed to preventing Ukraine's vulnerability, both by using us at European level to maintain the transport function and by using us at European level to strengthen the Ukrainian economy. That's pure geopolitics, isn't it? I would therefore like to see the whole palette of the debate, as it has just been held, reflected in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u121	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I give Mr Van Ojik the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers. It remains remarkable what happened between 7 February, when the last letter from the cabinet arrived, and 8 February, the day of the Coreper negotiations in Brussels. I am not a conspiracy thinker, absolutely not, but I am afraid of perhaps a catcher, which may make it too easy for Member States to grant exemptions after negotiations. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission has the final say on granting exemptions for pipelines under the Gas Directive and on the negotiating results achieved by Member States with third countries;]] [[considers that exemptions should be assessed against objective criteria in order to avoid arbitrariness and ensure continuity;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself in the Energy Council and other relevant EU bodies to establishing objective criteria for assessing requests for exemption and negotiated results with third countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-33-749]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u123	Mr President, I have a second motion to encourage the cabinet to move forward on the line that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u124	Read that motion right now, because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u125	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is becoming increasingly dependent on gas supplies from Russia;]] [[Whereas increasing gas dependence on Russia entails risks;]] [[noting that the Prime Minister recently stated that we should also enter into supply contracts with producers from the US, Canada, Norway, Africa and Central Asia;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how diversification of gas suppliers can be promoted on the basis of the security of supply, economic costs and environmental impacts criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-33-750]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u126	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u127	Thank you. I am going to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both ministers for the clear answer. Thank you for the clear position now in Brussels. That's today's profits. After a long stay between Chamber and Cabinet, but also between Russia, Germany and other European states, the outcome is that Nord Stream 2 will be covered by European rules. That's good. We are also giving the Commission powers that it has not yet had. I also think that is good and sensible, because energy policy is foreign policy. Then I guess it doesn't matter if we play a word game about "commercial" versus "geopolitics." Then it's the outcome that counts. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question: is there not an agreement behind the scenes between Germany and the Commission in advance on the exemption for Nord Stream 2, as Mr Van Ojik said? Is this not part of the compromise that has now been reached? Do we not still see Nord Stream 2 free of these rules? Mr. Chairman. As far as possible sanctions from the United States are concerned, I would particularly like to ask the Minister to keep us informed. I would actually like to ask him for a greater explanation, but perhaps the American ambassador present here is more in a position to do so. I would like to say the following to him from here on out. From the First Salute until now, our relationship is always based on mutual respect and on taking care seriously, and little on compulsion. Let's keep it that way. Thank you, Mr President. I've actually stayed within the time frame, so you can go straight to your next appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u129	Nice. Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Did you say something about an appointment from me or you? I'm fine. I'm available. Mr Van Helvert, on behalf of the CDA and Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP, waived a second-term contribution. I'll take a look at the ministers. They say they'd like two minutes of suspension. Then I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u130	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u131	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and one question. In the motion in part No. 749 Mr Van Ojik called on the government in the Gremia to commit itself to establishing objective criteria. Once again, when we look at the directive that is before us, I can see that the criteria are mentioned objectively. I keep saying that the weighting is really up to the Commission. The criteria are very clear. I think this motion is superfluous and I would therefore like to discourage it. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 750. That is where diversification is very important. Sure, we really do. I see you can distinguish three roles. The government doesn't buy gas. Nor does the government itself create infrastructure, but it has, of course, a kind of conditional role to play. For example, we have European funds that we actively participate in to also provide interconnection capacity. I think Mr Van Ojik knows a lot more about this in trade missions to energy countries than I do, by the way. I happened to be there at the Gasunie last week, where all kinds of knowledge-promoting activities are being carried out. There, for example, the LNG facilities are very much in mind, even abroad. I simply see this creation of conditions as the normal and regular work done in the Department of Energy, EZK. So I think the call is understandable and meaningful. I would therefore like to leave the motion to judge Chamber, but in the explanation that that investigation is never finished, is permanent and part of our regular work. Of course, I am prepared at any time to provide text and explanations on this matter and to answer all the questions raised by the Chamber, but it is not a concrete investigation that starts now, is about to be completed and never happens again. It's something that happens all the time, and there's a lot of movement in it. All kinds of countries are scaling up. We must increasingly ensure that private parties provide sufficient gas for as long as this is still necessary. Besides, we also need to work more actively on the need for an alternative. In fact, the government has a more than facilitating role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u132	Mr Sjoerdsma and I, as proposers, are not so much concerned with a very large study, of which we are then sent a large report. For what it is about, I would like to refer you to what the Prime Minister said in Zurich. He has indeed said that we should become less dependent on Russia and therefore think more about supply contracts with... And then he called a whole pride of countries and even a whole continent. So it would be good to hear a little more of this. Maybe there'll be a letter about how that works. How are we going to realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u133	Maybe it's nice to put that on paper. I can see, of course, that a Prime Minister can make calls that do not directly concern actions by the government, but private parties. Such an action can be: act normal! But it could also be: let's diversify on gas sources. You can address society in all kinds of ways and call for things. But let me try to put some things on paper, because I very much support this goal. Then Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether something was happening behind the scenes. I don't know anything about me there. If so, then that is behind a screen I stand for, so I don't see it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u134	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u135	As far as I am concerned, Mr Sjoerdsma was right to point out that this debate has clarified how a commercial project can also have geopolitical aspects and where the scope for action lies. This debate will undoubtedly continue. As far as I am concerned, Mr Sjoerdsma also quite rightly referred to the fact that the Netherlands was the first to recognise the United States with the First Salute. The Netherlands was then faced with very severe sanctions on the part of the United Kingdom: Saint-Eustatius was bombed. Nevertheless, we have never regretted the fact that we were the first to recognise the United States. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u136	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-16.u137	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, the Members of Parliament and the staff. We shall vote on the motions tabled in two weeks' time.
