ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to Mrs Ploumen's question on behalf of the PvdA to the Minister of Defence, who is replacing the Foreign Minister. The question concerns the withdrawal of the visa of the Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court by the United States. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The United States has withdrawn Mrs Bensouda's visa. She is Chief Prosecutor of the International Court of Justice. That fits in with a pattern, because the National Security Advisor of the Americans, Mr Bolton, said that as far as he was concerned, the International Court of Justice could bleed to death. Disgusting, but also worrisome. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. One: what is the response of the Netherlands to the withdrawal of the visa? Two: has the Netherlands been in contact with the US Government on this issue? The Hague, a city of peace and justice, is the host or host of the International Court of Justice. Three: Has the Cabinet contacted Pete Hoekstra, the American ambassador? We read this morning that he is very well integrated in the Netherlands. I would like to check with him whether he also knows that the Dutch Constitution states that we stand for the protection of the international legal order. Those were my questions to the Minister for the time being, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I am standing before my colleagues from the State Department. I fully agree with Mrs Ploumen that what has happened is extremely worrying, that The Hague is indeed the city of peace and justice and that justice must be done. I took a look at what was discussed last week in preparation for the RBZ. This was also the subject at the time. At that time, my colleague from the State Department indicated that he expressed his concerns about what has happened. He also sent a tweet about it. As you know, that's quite a common way of operating in America. My colleague Kaag spoke to Pompeo. We have also passed on our concerns at a high level of administration and we have also discussed them at European level. I can therefore reassure Mrs Ploumen that we share her analysis that this is worrying and that The Hague must remain a city of peace and justice. I do not know whether the Foreign Minister's colleagues have already been in contact with the Ambassador or whether that has already been done on an official basis. It seems to me appropriate to contact the ambassador in The Hague and to inform him of what is in our Constitution. I assume that he knows what is in our Constitution and that it is extremely important that we maintain it. So our line is: we have raised it and we will continue to raise it, because it is extremely important that the investigation that Mrs Bensouda is doing is properly prosecuted. We will continue to keep our finger on the wrists and say everywhere that this is not part of our policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for these answers. Two more questions for the Minister, if I may. It is good that it is being discussed. That's step one in a conversation. Step two is, of course, what the reaction of the United States has been. Does this give rise to an increase in the efforts of the Netherlands in terms of pressure on the United States? Two: the International Court of Justice has been under pressure for years. The United States is critical and some other countries are critical. Would it not be good to forge a visible coalition to protect the International Court of Justice and ensure that all kinds of fake news about the Court of Justice going around the world is contradicted? Should the Netherlands not have a more active and visible role in protecting the Court of Justice and the international legal order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	As I look at it now, I think it is important that we keep the subject on the agenda in discussions with the United States. This also means playing an active role in this. I will speak again with the BZ colleagues about whether it could and should be even more active. However, you can be convinced that we are proud of everything that is established here in The Hague in the field of peace and justice and that we will protect it with everything we have in us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	That seems all the more important to me, because an important advisor to Trump, Mr Bolton, has indicated that he not only wants to withdraw the complainant's visa, but that he also wants to sanction states and companies that facilitate or support the criminal investigation into Americans, or that he wants to bring these states to justice. It all sounds very nice and neat as the Minister puts it, but I would also ask her to convey loud and clear the fuss about this in the Netherlands, but also to make it clear that there can be no question of the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	There's no misunderstanding about that. I believe, however, that it is important in diplomatic matters to convey what we stand for properly. If you do that neatly, it does not mean that you are not indignant about it, I say in the direction of Mr Sjoerdsma. I have also made this very clear in my reply to Mrs Ploumen. I have also indicated how we stand in this regard. In the follow-up steps, colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also make this clear. And we will indicate that we do not consider possible follow-up sanctions to be totally inappropriate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	Last week we had a similar situation about lawyers assisting suspects of terrorism. Their licence also appears to be withdrawn. Can I ask the Minister to ensure that a whole package is actually discussed with the Americans? It is not just about the defendant of the tribunal, but certainly also about people who support people in our rule of law, which we oppose, but we also want them to be able to be assisted and that these people also simply enter America.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs Van Toorenburg can certainly ask that, and we will certainly do so. At the moment, we know from Mrs Bensouda herself that her visa has been withdrawn, but we do not know from others. She's allowed to travel, by the way. That is what this is all about. We do not know who else, but you can be sure that we feel the same about everyone who is working on our rule of law, based on our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you.
