ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u1	We will proceed immediately with the pièce de résistance of this evening, namely the amendment of the Arms and Ammunition Act. The first speaker was Mr Van Dam of the CDA. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u2	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of 2015, Paris was shocked by a bloody attack. 130 people were killed, including at a concert in the Bataclan. Most of them were killed by reactivated automatic weapons, often from Eastern Europe. A year later, in Brussels, in Zaventem, another terrorist attack was committed, resulting in many deaths and injuries. This was a bombing, but in the investigation that followed this attack, weapons and explosives were found in a Paris suburb and there appeared to be a link with three men living in Rotterdam. In a basement box in Rotterdam, 45 kilos of ammunition and cartridge holders for kalashnikovs are found. It appears that weapons and ammunition have been delivered from the Netherlands to the attackers, both in Paris in 2015 and in Brussels in 2016. These attacks have led to the common feeling among the European Member States of a strong European arms law. The law we are discussing today concerns the implementation of that new European arms directive. For the CDA, this directive brings valuable improvements, in particular with regard to the registration of weapons, the granting of licences and the way in which weapons are decommissioned. The CDA Group thanks the Minister for the comprehensive answer to all the questions we raised in the written round. We had many questions about the processing of special personal data, but the answers convinced us. It is not simply a matter of faith or political conviction in granting a permit, but if someone radicalizes, whether political or religious, then the government must be able to intervene and then we must also give the police the tools to act. That is how we see it and that is how we see it in these proposals, which we support. However, I would like to know from the Minister whether the possibly collected special personal data cannot be used for other leave applications, for example for purposes outside the Arms and Ammunitions Act. However, I am concerned about the increase in the number of hours for carrying out the legal tasks that follow from the proposed law, in relation to the capacity of the police. We all know how overloaded our police are. Every task that we place on the shoulders of our officers, certainly a task that could well be done by others, is too much for the CDA. Did the Minister discuss this with the Chief Constable? Can the police actually have this extra task? Colleagues Van Nispen and Van der Staaij have previously tabled a motion to identify deficits and ensure that there is sufficient capacity to carry out careful checks. The Minister refers to this in his reply. In that reply, I still miss a reference to the letter of 20 December 2017, in which the Minister states that the teams of Chief of Staff, who carry out this work, experience too much workload and that solutions are being sought in the short term. Is there any insight into these solutions? What has been done to ensure that, in addition to the supervision of the Arms Act, the other tasks of the Office of the Chief of Staff are properly addressed? Think, for example, of monitoring the private security industry, which is also very important. Can the police chiefs handle all this? It also seeks to modernise, simplify and simplify the Arms and Ammunitions Act. But it seems, above all, that this bill increases the workload. Does the Minister share that with me? I also read that the Minister intended to increase the fee by 1 January 2019 in order to fully reflect the higher staff costs of the applicant. But that fee increase isn't entirely cost-effective. When does the Minister expect to realize this? What difference are we talking about? I would also ask the Minister specifically for the possibility of extending the time-limit for the delivery of arms, in order to reduce the workload. The SGP has already tabled a motion on this subject, but I am also curious about the state of play. Mr. Chairman. An important point of this directive is to increase the traceability of weapons. With the fall of the Berlin Wall and the break-up of the Soviet Union, large quantities of weapons have landed on the European black market. In Slovakia, until recently, automatic weapons were legally acquired. In addition, weapons from the Second World War, for example in the Netherlands, often wander around in an attic, tucked away somewhere, of which the current owner does not know what to do with them. It is bad if these weapons are accidentally placed on the black market. Recently, a successful action was carried out in Rotterdam, organised by local residents, to hand in weapons to the police without consequences. A nice cooperation: a district that stands up against gun violence and is supported by police and prosecutors. In other municipalities, too, there have been such weapons surrender moments in the past. Of course, there is also a shadow side to it, because having a firearm is simply a criminal offence and you have to find a solution to that. But we find this return action extremely charming. Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that we should do everything we can to get weapons off the streets. If there are weapons in people who do not mean any harm, it is important that they can do so safely. That is why I intend to table a motion with other parties in the second term to look at a national arms surrender. It is important to me that those weapons can also be checked. I ask the Minister how this is done in practice. Was this also the case with the Rotterdam action? Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, this legislation will be introduced as soon as possible. Last Saturday, I was approached at our conference by a CDA member from Alblasserdam. He's had hunting rifles in his house for a long time, coming from his father and his grandfather. He's trying to disable these weapons. Don't destroy it, because those weapons have precious memories attached to them. But he can't turn them in to the official arms trade right now to disable them, because that official arms trade is packed. It's packed because no official body has yet been designated to monitor the disabling of those weapons. That's what this law is about. So it is not just criminals and terrorists, but it is also about proper supervision of ordinary people, who want to practice shooting in a safe manner and who want to end it safely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u3	Mr Van Nispen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u4	I am sympathetic to the proposal for an annual national arms return. I also think it might make sense to get as many guns off the street as possible. When we made this proposal about ten years ago, CDA Minister Hirsch Ballin's argument was not to want this to send a signal to people that they may have a weapon unpunished until that annual day has arrived. How does Mr Van Dam view that argument? What would argue against this? Has he thought about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u5	You are asking an ex-prosecution attorney who has been sitting with many arms cases himself what would argue against saying to people: gosh, you have actually committed a criminal offence, but one day a year, or one day in so many years, and that is it. I would like to know from the Minister what guarantees there are that real criminals will get caught. I would like to know from the Minister what guarantees there are that weapons with which, for example, was fired, with which someone was shot, are being fished out, and that someone who has turned in such a weapon repeats it to the police. So I'm sure I can see the dangers. You say the CDA didn't feel the same way ten years ago. This is proof that we are a party with lively thoughts on security and criminal law. So we don't stand still in thinking. And there's something else that's really important to me. Compared to other countries, we have relatively strict arms legislation in the Netherlands. This must be done not only on paper, but also in practice, in enforcement. In the actual removal of weapons from society, we must throw everything into battle that is conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u6	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u7	Madam President. Does a terrorist comply with Dutch arms legislation? Asking the question is, of course, an answer. Those who have misintentions will often fail to comply with what the law says. And those who do not adhere to the multiple "you will not kill," will often not follow the lesser "you will not have an illegal weapon." Does an implementing law for the Firearms Directive make sense? The answer of the SGP is without doubt: yes. A government can never guarantee that no attacks will take place, but a government can ensure that the threshold for committing such crimes is as high as possible. The purpose of this bill, which is to combat the abuse of firearms for criminal purposes, can therefore be supported. This legislative proposal is largely in line with the existing rules. However, additional conditions are laid down to prevent the re-use of unusable weapons and to improve registration and control. These are principles shared by the SGP. Mr. Chairman. One comment is that, in the explanatory memorandum, the government states that there is a short implementation period. That is understandable in view of the urgency of the review, but in the meantime we are well ahead of time. And before the First Chamber was discussed, we've moved on for a while. The question is also what is the reason why this has taken longer, given the urgency and the agreed short implementation period. Mr. Chairman. One question that we always ask ourselves when it comes to European directives and rules is: is it necessary to regulate the European system? In view of the international ramifications of crime and the terrorist threat, the examples already mentioned are those which do not comply with national borders, in our view this is a good choice in this case. It should not be the case that you are properly registered in Belgium as a person who is not allowed to own a weapon, while just across the border in the Netherlands no rooster crows to it if you report yourself to a shooting association. An important point of attention and discussion in the course of this legislative proposal is the registration of data on, for example, religion and race. The SGP believes that such special personal data should be handled very carefully. That is why it is right that attention has been paid to this issue, including in the written debate. As far as we are concerned, it is good that this is further clarified by the Minister in the oral debate this evening, but I would like to say that we can imagine very well, also in the light of the General Data Protection Regulation, that it is desirable to say explicitly here that in particular cases those sensitive personal data may also be registered. I think that is really the difference between the past and now: we are very explicit that there must be a formal and legal basis for recording certain particularly vulnerable personal data somewhere, because it is particularly desirable in this case to do so. Imagine if someone turns out to be connected to ISIS, and his name is recorded because of the ties with ISIS or any other terrorist club, that is extremely relevant information. And that can indeed be linked to religious beliefs. Mr. Chairman. Then there's an important point. The implementation of the rules on the Arms and Ammunitions Act rests with the police chief of police. Is that a task that's really most appropriate there? Are the executive police officers able to grant these engagements properly? Isn't there a high risk that inexperience might lead to such a request, but sometimes, within the framework of a review, the quality of the test can easily fail? That is a question I would like to put to the Minister. Previously, the Chamber adopted a motion by Mr Van Nispen and myself on the question of whether the police have sufficient capacity to carry out thorough psychic investigations and home investigations when granting an arms license. Isn't there a great danger that that will only increase? I'd like to get a response to that point. Finally, the issue of administrative burdens. As a general rule, everyone agrees that we need to reduce administrative burdens, but in concrete terms the Van der Staaij motion (34432) has not yet been properly implemented. 11) from two years ago on the renewal of permits such as a hunting certificate. It is crucial that good tests are carried out on the authorisation of weapons, but the question is whether this can be improved by a heavier authorisation procedure for a few years rather than by some sort of annual routine check without in-depth investigation, but with considerable burdens on everything and everyone. Is the Minister prepared to take another look at this? We understand that both the fee and the fee have gone up considerably and the review still has to take place every year. We understand that it will not work within the framework of this legislative proposal, but I would like to ask the Minister to look again at this point in this motion and to come back to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u8	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u9	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing today the tightening up of the Arms and Ammo Act. This tightening-up is necessary to implement a European directive. GroenLinks welcomes the aim of this directive, namely to make weapons more traceable and to impose stricter requirements on registration. I agree with many of the specific questions raised by the previous speakers. I also have a few comments to make on and on the legislative proposal. First of all, the storage of personal data, which Mr Van der Staaij just ended with. I can imagine the inconvenience of many in the current Article 44. I say 'the current article', because there was a lot of confusion about that. First of all, I would like a confirmation from the Minister: is it true that, as of 16 October 2018, the current Act on Arms and Ammunitions states that the Chief Constable can process personal data from which racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious or philosophical beliefs and so on can be seen? I think that's what the current law says. At the same time, as Mr Van der Staaij said, there are cases where it can be said: if there is evidence that someone belongs, for example, to an extremist group, you want to take that into account in your decision whether or not to issue an arms licence. I have seen that there is an amendment tabled by Mrs Den Boer. 9, to request an evaluation of how this article is now applied in practice. That seems to be a useful direction for my group. I would therefore like to support it. I hope the Minister will be able to support them as well. Mr. Chairman. I saw in the law that there's going to be an automated system that contains all the information that tells me about the connection between a legal firearm and the owner. This is intended to enable this information to be exchanged with other Member States. The AMvB will then determine exactly what data can be provided to other Member States. Can the Minister tell us anything about this? I understand that the European Commission still needs to make a proposal for what data should be included. I don't think we have enough information on that. What is the Netherlands like in this? I also believe that a country such as Luxembourg voted against the compromise in the Council because the government of that country considered this compromise to be inadequate because it wanted a strict and harmonised ban on the most dangerous semi-automatic weapons. What about the harmonised ban on semi-automatic weapons? Does that mean anything, or is that certainly not strict enough, even in the opinion of our government? There are indeed many illegal weapons in circulation in the Netherlands, more so than before, as Mr Van Dam said. They are cheaper and easy to get, for example via the Internet, but also because of the availability of large quantities of weapons coming from former Yugoslavia. I think we are all very concerned about that. We had a rather more extensive debate on this not so long ago, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he can now tell us what is going on with dealing with this illegal arms trade. How does European cooperation view this? Is this really a priority at European level? Then there are also illegal weapons that do not belong to criminals, but which we want to get out of society, because we do not want our children to touch them with their thumbs or that someone suddenly has a weapon at their disposal. Even if it's from a distant grandfather, it's still a weapon, and you don't want it with someone who's suddenly in a furious mood. We have seen that in Rotterdam several weapons were handed in in that special action, in which the police said that people would not be prosecuted for illegal possession of weapons. I think it is important to say that, of course, people must be prosecuted for any crimes that might have been committed with those weapons. We intend to table a motion with the CDA colleagues and the VVD. I hope that it will be followed widely here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u10	Thank you. I call Mrs Laan-Selschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are all obliged to keep the Netherlands safe. We must therefore take seriously any proposal that can help in this respect. The amendment of the Arms and Ammunitions Act is such a proposal. The VVD realizes that 100% security does not exist, but that stricter arms legislation can contribute to a safer Netherlands is clearly important. And so do the Dutch. The amendment of the law in question has a particularly nasty reason. Following several attacks on European territory, the European Commission has already called in 2015 for the directive to be amended. With the adaptation of the Firearms Directive, we want to continue to tackle the abuse of firearms for criminal purposes. The Dutch arms legislation is already quite strict, but the law is now being tightened. I understand the thought behind tightening up, but I still have some questions about the approach that really matters. That is the approach to the illegal arms trade. Stronger supervision of arms dealers, buyers and recreational users is fine, but it is difficult to imagine that terrorists are legally coming to these weapons. If that's any different, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. I would also like to hear from the Minister how the tightening up of this law contributes to the fight against the illegal arms trade. Mr. Chairman. Although we support this law, I would like to draw attention to the shooting associations. Legal weapons must be in the hands of or come from those who are able to deal with the far-reaching responsibility that weapon possession entails. This is generally the case with members of shooting associations. And for guilds and fences, of course. Can the Minister clarify what is going to change for these associations? The members of these clubs understand the rules that apply to them because they may be in possession of a firearm, but they should not be flooded with red tape and hassle, partly because the regulations in the Netherlands are already quite strict. We are therefore pleased with the motion that the CDA is presenting today, which is also being tabled on behalf of GroenLinks and the VVD. Of course because this Rotterdam initiative of a Rotterdam MP has been very enthusiastically welcomed, but Mr Van Dam has brought it up nicely today. Thank you for that! Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to address the issue of the registration of race and ethnic origin among others. The VVD also drew attention to this in the written input to this law. The VVD is also not in favour of registering the race or ethnicity of the weapons owners. The Minister admitted that there was some ambiguity on this point in the explanatory memorandum to this legislative proposal. That's caused a lot of confusion. We are convinced by the explanation given by the Minister in his answers to the questions of, among others, the VVD. The disputed article 44 has been removed from the bill. The Minister has made it clear that race, ethnic origin, religion or political opinion do not play a role in the authorisation under the Arms and Ammunition Act. However, it is possible that the examination of an application for authorisation reveals, for example, the applicant's religious or political views. The VVD fully supports the fact that these special personal data are registered and that the police must have the power to process them. By the way, they already had that power. This bill doesn't change anything about that. In short, the Minister has removed the misunderstanding, and that is the end of the matter for the VVD. So much for my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u12	Mrs Buitenweg has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u13	This is very confusing and I myself have just asked questions about it to the Minister. But I was afraid for a moment that my colleague almost made it a little more complex again, because I do not think that the Minister withdrew Article 44 because of the lack of clarity. Article 44 has already been included because of the fact that we have adopted the GDPR. Since October this article 44 has been part of the Arms and Ammunitions Act. So I think that's the case. There is absolutely a great deal of uncertainty about it, also on my part, but I think it was already part of that law and therefore the Minister has not withdrawn it because of the lack of clarity. Perhaps you could respond to that in a moment. I understand that it is weird to interrupt on this, but I think this is a crux, also in many reports from the media. It is important that we are very precise about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u14	I think Mrs Buitenweg has made this analysis sound. I agree with that, but I also welcome all the words devoted to it by the Minister in all his documents, as I say again. In any case, he has removed uncertainty and uncertainty from us. As a VVD we also attach great importance to privacy and also to Dutch people, but I think that your summary does more justice to the truth; it is true that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u15	Thank you. We were also concerned as a group, so we share your observations on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u16	Thank you. I call Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u17	Mr. Chairman. If you have received a permit to own a firearm, for example for a shooting sport or as a collector, that creates a special responsibility. Most people deal with that very well, by the way. The origin of this European Firearms Directive lies in the terrorist actions in Paris. My group, like Mr Van der Staaij, has also wondered whether this directive is going to prevent attacks and whether terrorists are even complying with European directives. However, we certainly need to look at this directive as a serious attempt to see where it can be better, in terms of control, supervision, etc. The aim is to support the idea of combating as much as possible the abuse of weapons and ensuring that weapons do not fall into the wrong hands. That's what the SP totally agrees with. First of all, I would like to ask a few questions about the applicant's sensitive data. This has been a lot to do. The police aren't gonna ask people who apply for a gun license about race, religion and political opinion, are they? We raised that question. The Minister swore to us immediately that this was not the case. There is a basis that allows the processing of special personal data: only if necessary. But it is not an end in itself to collect data about race or religion. I thought the example also made it a little clearer. Suppose, in the context of a house visit or a vault check, the police see that there are all flags of swastikas or, for example, IS symbols, then it would be a little crazy if the police couldn't do anything with that data if they weren't allowed to process it and shouldn't involve that data in refusing to grant that application. I agree with that in principle. I would ask the Minister, however, whether it is really limited in this respect to data which the police appear to be some kind of bycatch. How is that guaranteed, I ask the Minister? I also understand that other special personal data are relevant, such as criminal history or mental problems. All in all, I would like to raise the question once again, precisely because I think this is important in this debate: can the Minister guarantee that there are sufficient guarantees that special personal data will be handled properly, lawfully and carefully? This must be done not only on paper, but also in implementation practice, and certainly also in exchange with other countries. For my part, there are also some questions about the capacity of the police. That's been a problem for a long time. We make laws here that make the police even more busy. Two years ago, when amending the Arms and Ammunitions Act together with Mr Van der Staaij, we tabled this motion: 'calls on the government to identify the deficits and to ensure that there is sufficient capacity to meet deadlines carefully and to carry out intensive checks'. Because this proposal increases the burden and tasks again. Partly there's compensation for the police, but part of it isn't. and then the Minister writes: any additional costs will be discussed. Discussing costs is something other than compensating. In short, I'm not entirely comfortable with it. What about the execution of that motion? Has it been mapped out what the shortages in police capacity are to carry out the arms legislation tasks properly, carefully and in a timely manner? What can we talk to the Minister about this? We are having this kind of debate on legal weapons and on stricter requirements for licence holders and the police to obtain an arms license, but there is actually a much greater risk of illegal weapons. Too many killing machines are way too easy to get. I'm not an expert, but what I read is that this is getting worse and worse. Is that also the Minister's image? Do we have enough visual on this? How better to get the finger on this? Isn't this also particularly a question of investigating the criminal circuit by experienced detectives who can do their job with enough colleagues? Are we satisfied with the progress of international cooperation in this area? I'd like to have another reaction to this. Finally, the voluntary surrender of weapons. I think it is a really good proposal from my fellow Members. I have just looked it up and my illustrious predecessor Jan de Wit also submitted a proposal on 13 May 2008 not to punish the voluntary surrender of weapons. Back then, Minister Hirsch Ballin was unfortunately not in favour of that. I think it is only very nice that there is now a broad initiative from the Chamber to do so now, because I believe that we really need to get as many weapons off the streets as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u18	Thank you. I call Mrs Helder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following the horrible attacks in Paris in 2016, the European Commission came up with a tightening up of the Firearms Directive. That has led the government to tighten up the Arms and Ammo Act. It is nothing more or less than an example of EU interference on a subject that, of course, nobody can oppose at all. You need to prevent attacks as much as possible. But what does that help? My group has said many times, and I repeat: border controls, know what is coming in. That's not a wall that's always funny about. Look at the example of Latvia, where infrared rays can also control what's coming across your border. Then you can control very well and efficiently. What else does it take? I have said that a great many times, and I repeat that. Sufficiently specialised detectives, so that you can get the finger on who uses the weapons, where they come from, how unready firearms can cross our border and how they can be made "use-friendly" again and thus used. That's what we need. We all know: the police don't have enough capacity at all. The department of Chief of Staff has to check the enforcement of the Arms and Ammunitions Act, so whether those who are on an armory leave, as it is called with a beautiful word, comply with the law and whether the lockers in which the weapons are contained are locked and anchored to the wall and floor as it should be. There's not enough capacity to control that. That doesn't change anything. Then what's gonna happen? People who follow the rules are often referred to as sportsmen who are once again subject to stricter controls. My group strongly opposes this. This also applies to EU interference where it is not necessary. My group is therefore opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u20	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Den Boer of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u21	Mr. Chairman. In front of us is the Wet weapons and ammunition. We have this debate following a European directive, which has already been mentioned. The aim of the directive is clear. The aim is to better register the circulation of weapons and thereby to better manage terrorism and organised crime. Let me say first of all that my group has a great deal of understanding for this objective. My group welcomes the fact that this law regulates, inter alia, the marking and registration of firearms and improves the exchange of information on firearms between the EU Member States. Mr. Chairman. The end justifies the means. That's a well-known statement, but according to D66, that doesn't always happen. The Arms and Ammunitions Act contains an article that deals with the processing of special personal data. These are data such as race or ethnic origin, political views, religious or philosophical beliefs. There's been a lot of fuss about this. Not only political parties but also the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority were critical. In many respects, the legislative proposal was unclear and insufficient in this respect. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister later acknowledged that the explanation of the legislative proposal was incomplete. But despite that, my group continues to worry. D66 is not in favour of the processing of special personal data. Despite the confidence I have in our police and investigation services, I cannot deny that there are risks of abuse and discrimination. The Minister wanted to clarify that this is not the intention. He also addressed the questions raised by D66 on this subject in detail. I thank him for that. However, my concerns have not been completely removed. D66 has doubts about the usefulness and necessity of the processing of special personal data. Does it really contribute to the effectiveness of this proposal? What is the Minister's view on the one hand of the purpose of this law and, on the other hand, of the infringement of the interests of those concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u22	Mr Van Dam has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u23	I have a question for the representative of D66. Imagine that policeman going to check up on him, that he's gonna be in the attic of that vacationist and that he's gonna be there all sorts of... It can be ISIS; it can be radicalisation on the right, on the left, at the top or at the bottom. That policeman will have to take some things back with him. He's gonna have to go to the station with that, and he's gonna have to do something with that. What the hell is he doing? Does he have to have the ability to capture that and process it? Or are you referring him to the ghostland? 'Cause I don't think we want that cop to do anything with it. He's gonna have to do something with it. So if you want the police to do this, you have to give her adequate resources. I really don't understand how you see it and what you expect from the police at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u24	In addition to the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority, several parties have been very critical about it. In the past, the CDA has also asked why the processing of special personal data is useful and necessary in order for this law to work properly. You're talking about the ghostland. But I am asking the Minister to give further clarification so that the professionals in the country can get away with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u25	I really appreciate being reminded of the questions I've asked. I had already mentioned this in my speech, and I said that I had adequate answers to that. But my question to you is: what do you give to the police in terms of legal powers to control this law? Because I can't imagine that D66 would want people who radicalize to keep their weapons. That actually makes it possible for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u26	This law makes a lot of things possible. This law allows the registration of weapons, the marking of weapons, the transaction of weapons etc., etc. So keeping an incredible amount of data will be made possible by this law. And that's what the police can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u27	Very briefly, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u28	Very briefly. I note that there is no answer to my question. So I note that D66 leaves a big gap in the law here, especially when it comes to what that law is meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u29	The law wasn't made by D66. It is a pity that Mr Van Dam finds that D66 has left a gap here. Apparently, Mr. Van Dam hasn't been convinced by D66. I would, of course, like to see that different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u30	I hear Mrs Den Boer now saying that care has not yet been fully taken away. I am indeed asking for clarification. However, I have seen an amendment which says quite clearly: delete the whole article. Or is that out of date?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u31	The amendment in part No. Eight still stands. It's about article 44 in the law, not article 44 in the bill. It is also not about deleting the whole article, but about a large part of the article that relates to special personal data, which you have previously qualified as vulnerable, sensitive data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u32	Sure. Technically, at first it seemed as if they were new provisions. Later it appeared that it is already legislation with the Adaptation Act General Data Protection Regulation. Of course, it is your formal right to use this legal treatment to say that we did vote in favour of the Adaptation Act and did not make it a point at the time, but we have now become alert on this point and want to amend the law. That's your right, but I still have a question. I found the Minister's reply very clear and strong. Does D66 indeed say: even if the police find out that someone has become a follower of jihadist ideas, then that should not be recorded in any way, because these are special personal data, and we do not want them to be stored?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u33	To the last question I would like to answer that Article 44 as it stands in the law may lead to discrimination. That's what D66 is critical of. We do not want this to compromise fundamental rights. In the first part of your question you asked: you will return to that GDPR. I am pleased that you have given me the opportunity, as a representative of the people, to look again at a legal text. That's what I do here. That is why I come to the Minister with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u34	Fine, but still about the content. Mrs Den Boer says there is a risk of discrimination. Yes, there are a lot of powers that can be used wrongly. It's always good to see how you can clause that or keep an eye on it. But don't you throw the baby away with the bathwater? Once again, I would like to put a specific question: may or may not, in Mrs Den Boer's view, be recorded that, for example, someone has now converted to jihadist ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u35	I can only respond to this in such a way that my group has not become convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the processing of special personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u36	Mr President, one more time. This is a very concrete case. That's not far-fetched, is it? Does D66 simply say: it may be interesting information in the context of weapons possession that someone is now jihadistic, but you cannot record that, because who knows what could happen to it? Is that really what Mrs Den Boer is advocating here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u37	I have a question for the Minister myself about this in a moment, I hope. I don't know exactly what he's gonna come up with in answering all the questions. I have also included more questions in my text. In any case, the Minister has left no information on the processing of special personal data. In the newspaper, for example, we could see this morning that we could run into this kind of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u38	Mr Van Dam or Mrs Laan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u39	I wanted to make another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u40	Okay. Mrs. Laan, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u41	At this point, exactly. I shall put Mr Van der Staaij's question in a different way. One of my colleagues formulated it in this way this week. Is it then the case that the police are specifically forced by D66 to formulate extremist ideas of someone applying for a permit for a weapon, for example, in the sense that certain facial hair has increased, because you cannot say that someone in his religion is extrapolating the extremist thought? Is that what D66 wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u42	Facial hair is not particularly personalized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u43	No, exactly. That's what I'm saying. In fact, therefore, you force the police to use these kinds of creative descriptions of certain extremism to prevent the things that you feel so badly from getting on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u44	In my opinion, Article 44 is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u45	It is clear that I consider the D66 proposal to be a form of Russian roulette. But I would like to ask one more thing, because I do not think there is just an amendment tabled to largely dismantle Article 44. An amendment is also tabled to introduce an evaluation clause. Are you preaching that your amendment is not gonna make it? What's your purpose? I can imagine a great deal in an assessment. Of that I think: it is a special character. I could very well agree with that, speaking for myself. But what's the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u46	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u47	Let me be clear: I want this debate to be conducted in a calm manner, because I have the feeling that there is some excitement here. The first amendment is to delete a large part of Article 44 from the law, since it concerns the processing of special personal data. We know that this is potentially damaging the fundamental rights of citizens in the Netherlands, but also elsewhere in Europe, because discrimination is lurking. Two. If the Minister is prepared to accept this amendment on the most important deletion of Article 44, then we shall also drop the amendment on the evaluation, because that amendment on evaluation relates to that first amendment or amendment. Article 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u48	The representative of D66 says that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u49	I have a name, too. Mrs Den Boer, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u50	Mrs Den Boer from D66 says...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u51	Mrs Den Boer, I am very glad that you remind me of that. I'd appreciate it if I could run the meeting here. I understand there's some excitement on your side now, but for God's sake, let's all take it easy. Mr. Van Dom... look, there you have it! Mr Van Dam has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about radicalisation here, and I actually think that D66 is radical in the privacy debate here. I really think it is a huge problem that we are asking our investigators to prevent wrong people from holding weapons and that we are not giving them the means to do so. I do get a little excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u53	I leave this observation entirely to Mr Van Dam. The purpose of this law is to better register, better visualise and exchange information on the circulation of weapons in the European Union. By the way, the EU directive does not require the Netherlands to process special personal data. This is what the Netherlands itself has added to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u54	There is no excitement with me, so I will simply ask a question in all calmness, also to understand it better. With the questions that I and other colleagues have just asked, we have expressed our desire to know how this is going to work in practice. It's a big deal: special personal data. At the same time, as a result of the Minister's example, in which the police visit the house and see everything in a vault check, I said IS-sympathys, that it is difficult to imagine that the police are not allowed to do so. That has led me to think sincerely and hence my critical question to the Minister. How sure is Mrs Den Boer of her case that Article 44 must be repealed? Is there room for debate, in which the Minister can explain how this competence will be used in practice and after which Mrs Den Boer may say: on second thought, was my amendment not such a good idea? Or does she really say: I am sure this should disappear, no matter what happens in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u55	We are very much in principle in this. We are not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of Article 44 in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u56	Okay, that's okay. In that case, colleagues' questions remain unanswered as to how police officers should deal with what they may see on the spot or what they may see from Facebook expressions or name it. My follow-up question is as follows. Mrs Den Boer says that she does not really want special personal data to be processed. But why can D66's health and criminal convictions data be processed? That remains, according to the amendment, of Article 44. Why is that allowed to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u57	Criminal record and the like is not covered by special personal data, but it is very important to know someone's history: can someone handle weapons in a good and conscious way and does he or she not pose a danger to society? That has convinced us of the need to preserve those parts. But I would also like to answer a question you asked about the practical operation of such a law. I have seen that there are quite a few delegation provisions, general administrative measures, in the law. There is also, as has also been noted by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, some uncertainty about how this law will work in practice. You yourself asked the question about capacity. That is a very relevant question: can we implement this law? But the law itself must be clear about its implementation. I therefore ask the Minister to remove any further ambiguity. I feel like there's still some missing things. I have some questions about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u58	Mr Van Nispen mentioned a point on which I also have a few questions. I heard Mr Den Boer at some point hiding behind the word 'processing'. The Minister also said: processing is not a task, but writing down what you have seen, which you are required to do as a police officer. I hardly heard Mrs Den Boer go into that further, but then she talked about privacy. Then I entirely agree with Mr Van Nispen: a health file can apparently be processed, regardless of what you mean by 'processing'. That's inconsistent, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u59	It's not inconsistent. We have looked very carefully at this and consciously opted for it, also for examples I have just mentioned. You also ask a question about the difference between 'collecting' and 'processing'. The GDPR makes a very clear distinction between these two processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u60	This is where words are put in my mouth that I haven't used. I'm not talking about the GDPR at all. I am referring to the amendment tabled by Mr Den Boer and I would like to clarify it. I have also heard her say that the Minister goes far beyond the directive. But so does the Minister on another point, namely the possession of large warehouses. The Minister goes much further than the directive, but I do not hear Mr Den Boer on that. I still think it's inconsistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u61	It may be quite clear that Mrs Helder is asking questions about this, which I also, in part, put to the Minister myself. Why does he go beyond the European directive at all? We have not become convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this addition. We do see a difference between collecting, at the front, and processing of special personal data at a later stage of data processing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u62	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u63	Short, Mr. Chairman. That you are not convinced of usefulness and necessity, there is a debate for that too. I agree with Mr Den Boer. However, an amendment is already being tabled and another amendment is being tabled as a safety net, as Mr Van Dam also said, in case that amendment would not be necessary. Well, I think that's a little double. Well, then it's not crazy to ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u64	Good. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u65	I'm just trying to clear up the difference between "collect" and "processing." Is it possible for the D66 group to collect this data, not to process it but to collect it? My group is also in her stomach with the processing of personal data, but I do think it is important that if there are indeed all Nazi symbols or all kinds of other things found somewhere that show that people have rather extremist and perhaps also really dangerous sympathies, we should take them into account when asking if we should give someone a gun permit. On discrimination: I think it is important to note that this is an illegal distinction. It may be that we find it permissible not to give a weapon to someone who is very extremist. My question is: in that case, can we collect according to D66, but not processed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u66	The GDPR sets very strict requirements and provides an explicit basis for the processing of special personal data. This is also the subject of Article 44: the processing of personal data by the Chief of Staff. That's what we're talking about, not collecting. Moreover, the Minister has also said that I hope he will give further answers in a moment to questions that are and may come to light that it is apparently not the intention to collect this particular personal data at the front, but that we may run into these particular personal data. I find that rather unclear. I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this further in the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u67	I would very much like to be a co-sponsor of the amendment on an evaluation clause, but of course I see that in a text which must be there. Let me put it this way: should Mrs Den Boer think that the amendment to delete Article 44 is gonna be okay, I'd be happy to accept her amendment for the evaluation, because of course they bite each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u68	Thank you for this suggestion and for the support for the evaluation amendment. I am, of course, very curious to know what the Minister's opinion will be on the first but also on the second amendment in the course of the debate. Can I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u69	Yes. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u70	Of course, I still have the question of whether the Minister can explain why it is necessary, how he can prevent arbitrariness and abuse and how risks can be kept as low as possible. This particular point of the law was not part of the European Directive. That is why my question to the Minister is equally explicit as to why he goes beyond the proposal of the European directive. Indeed, my group has specific concerns about Article 44 of the law. The Minister indicated that this article is no longer part of the legislative amendment, because the article is incorporated into the law. So it has been deleted from the bill, but it is still in the law, and there are the concerns of the D66 Group. That is why I have therefore prepared those amendments, the first of which removes the basis for the processing of special personal data from the law. As far as my group is concerned, it is not yet sufficiently clear how abuse of this personal data and arbitrariness in its processing is prevented. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I have a number of other questions about privacy. My group doubts whether the need for privacy breaches is justified, given proportionality and subsidiarity. We also have doubts about the necessity and effectiveness of the extremely long retention periods of personal data. It's about 30 years. I am aware that this deadline has already been included in the directive, but I still wonder why this retention period is necessary for the regulation of the possession of firearms and the prevention of abuse for criminal purposes. How does it contribute to the effectiveness of the Directive? Why can't we do this with shorter retention periods? And does the Minister see any possibility in the future to see if these extremely long retention periods are proportionate? The Minister states that a privacy impact assessment, a PIA, i.e. a data impact assessment, was not necessary and has been carried out before. Can he indicate what the outcome of this PIA was at the time and what was done with that outcome? Have these improvements also been applied to this law? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group supports cooperation between Member States under this Directive. However, we ask how the data exchanged will be protected. Questions have been asked about this earlier by Mrs Buitenweg. How is it prevented from being misused for other purposes? And to what extent does monitoring take place and is there the possibility of imposing sanctions in an extreme case? How does the Minister work in this respect with his colleagues in the other Member States? And how does he view an evaluation of this exchange and cooperation? I'd like a response. In short, it is clear that action must be taken against terrorism and organised crime. The question is how best to do that. Is it really necessary to justify an infringement of the right to privacy? Finally, Mr President. As you will hear, my group remains critical of the present proposal. I have asked many questions, and I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u71	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for 15 minutes. So I'll see you back at 9:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u72	I give the floor to the Minister. I would ask the Minister to be somewhat brief and concise. Can I ask you that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u73	You cannot just ask me to do that; I am going to meet that requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u74	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u75	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Arms and Ammunitions Act to implement the amended Firearms Directive. That Directive is intended to increase the traceability of arms within the European Union. By strengthening the control of legal possession of weapons, we are at least going to prevent as much as possible from putting weapons into the illegal circuit. That is why the requirements for the registration of weapons and the marking of weapons have been extended throughout the Union. In order to make access to illicit weapons as difficult as possible, Member States should inform each other as closely as possible about the transport of arms to other Member States and about refusals to grant arms licences for security reasons. The new requirements of this directive are included in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I am going to go through the questions that your Members have asked about the various subjects. I am going to do so quickly and with very few words, but there is, of course, one subject on which there are questions, particularly with regard to D66 but also with regard to some other groups. That's the use of those personal data. I would like to say two things about that. Then I'm going to answer some more or less technical questions, especially from Mrs Den Boer. I shall now turn to the two amendments. Then I'll continue with the other topics. I would like to make two points. This bill no longer regulates anything with regard to Article 44. Why is that? Your Chamber approved a new article 44 through the AVG Adaptation Act last spring. Why was that? That was necessary, because the Armaments and Armaments Act is now covered by the GDPR. The GDPR says that you must have a legal basis for processing personal data, so that there is transparency in the law on when that personal data is processed. This bill, for which we are here tonight, only provided for a simultaneous provision in the event that the adaptation law would not be ready in time, because we had to comply fully with those GDPR requirements on a certain date. But since that law of adaptation was completed in time, I have to admit that much earlier than this law, Mr Dekker has done so more quickly than I do, Article 44 is already in the Arms and Ammunitions Act, as your Member Buitenweg rightly pointed out. That's why I removed the co-decision clause from the bill. So that's not part of it anymore. But I did address the concerns that had been expressed in the meantime and the questions that had been asked, because I just thought it important that we have been well established in parliamentary history as to why we have such an article 44. In view of the risk that weapons may constitute weapons, an arms leave should only be granted if it is established that a person can be entrusted with a weapon. You will find this as a chorus when you answer, in particular, Mrs Den Boer's questions. Remember, a weapon can be entrusted. What the police don't do is ask about someone's race, religion, political beliefs, etc. That fact is not relevant to the question of whether anyone can get a gun leave. That is not at all covered by the target binding of the Arms and Ammunition Act. However, it should be possible to include data that have been discovered in a police investigation about involvement in a violent group in the application. Whether that is a violent political group or a violent religious group, so what political or religious group is involved, is not the relevant point. In such a situation, it is about the violent nature of such a group. There were some misunderstandings about this. I have honestly said that the explanatory statement should have been a little more detailed in that regard. That it was not, was because it had already been included in the Adaptation Act GDPR. Apologies for the way things turned out. But at least I have already mentioned two examples when that consternation started. I would like to repeat it very quickly. These are also interesting examples. The first example is that of a jihadist. I would like to take you to the text of Rule 44. It states: for the purpose of the task under the law, the Chief Constable may process personal data from which racial or ethnic origin, political views, etc. may be expressed. I take the example of someone in whose police record is a report that shows that he has called for armed jihadist struggles on the Internet several times. I think that is what I think, as Minister of Justice and Security, is a relevant fact for the Chief Constable to take into account in his assessment. That falls under the target binding of the Arms and Ammo Act. That if the underlying fact is then a Muslim is irrelevant; that is not taken away. It's about the first thing. Only the fact that he or she is a jihadist can show that he or she is Muslim. A completely different example. Someone's police file has a report that shows that he threw heavy fireworks a few times or maybe a grenade at a mosque. This may show that the person is a supporter of a particular direction of thought, a certain political extreme direction. The latter, the political direction, is irrelevant. Relevant is that whoever's in his police file has been caught, or whatever, throwing a grenade at a mosque. That's something the Chief Constable will really want to take into consideration. I would like to give two very different examples, from both sides of the spectrum. The point is that the GDPR determines: if you want to use personal data from which ethnic origin and so on, you must report in the law that this is happening. But, again, I have clearly stated that in the note following the report, the underlying fact that you are Catholic, that you are Jewish or that you are a member of the CDA is irrelevant and is not taken into account by the Chief Constable in his assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u76	Everyone is laughing because the Minister calls them "to be members of the CDA" as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u77	That's how I see it, too, that it's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u78	I see Mr Van Dam looking rather indignant!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u79	I do have a serious question. The Minister says very precisely a few times: one is relevant and the other is irrelevant. It is relevant to make it clear that someone is following a violent current, but it is not relevant to report whether someone is following a particular religion. But in what way is it recorded? Does it say "extremely" on its own? Or is there a current called? Can the minister give it some coloring?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u80	The police will have in the police report that someone has a few jihadist sympathies on the Internet, for example... or at least that they have called for armed combat. Or the police will have in a police report that was caught throwing a grenade at a mosque. Underlying it may appear that that grenade was thrown as part of a manifestation of a particular political organization. The latter is therefore irrelevant and does not fit within the target binding of the Arms and Ammunition Act. Mr President, you didn't want to say much, but if you'll allow me, I really want to go through many more examples with you to tell you what it's about. Can you trust someone with a gun? To this end, the Chief Constable must process certain personal data from the file. Someone, for example, has called for the armed struggle. That is covered by personal data. He uses that, but we have to report in the law "personal data from which ethnic origin, religion and so on". I would like to stress once again that this ethnic origin, that religion or political belief do not play any part in the goal-binding under the Arms and Ammunitions Act. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it will become even clearer if you allow me to just answer the technical questions of your Members, perhaps somewhat staccato. I will start with Mr Van Dam. Can the data collected possibly be used for other leave applications outside the WWM? No, it should always be within the target binding of the WWM. Is anyone capable of confiding a weapon? Data may only be used for the execution of the WWM. Then there is Mrs Buitenweg's question. Is it true that Article 44 has been in the WWM since 16 October? I said this in my introduction and I really want to stress this: it was adopted by your Chamber some time ago. But I think it is right that we should have this explicit discussion with each other this evening or at least that I should give this explicit explanation and accountability to you. Mr Van Nispen asked about the guarantee of the restriction. The limitation is guaranteed by the purpose binding of the Arms and Ammunition Act. It is therefore a matter of data which is necessary to assess the application, but in which you can say, Mr President, as an unwanted bycatch, that someone is Muslim, Jewish, Catholic or whatever. That by-catch is irrelevant and should not be used. Let me come back to common sense: it doesn't say anything about trusting someone with a gun, let's be it. At least it's very clear in the law. I hope that in these Acts for parliamentary history we have made it quite clear once again. Mrs Den Boer asked what the use of special personal data contributes to the effectiveness of the WWM. The grounds for rejection are that someone can't be trusted with a weapon. Article 44 therefore makes it possible to use special personal data that come to light in the police investigation. That could be the data I mentioned in the examples. Only, with some of these data comes up or can show what one's political belief or religion is. I believe that the use of special personal data is justified in the light of the danger associated with the possession of weapons. We should not forget that Article 44 derives precisely from the requirement of transparency in the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation, namely: include in the law when you use personal data. I am perhaps going to surprise Mrs Den Boer with something beautiful, because it is of course true that transparency also gives you the motivation for the Chief Constable's decision. So you can determine whether he does not grant or reject a licence on improper grounds. The aim of the GDPR was once to ensure that you could not discriminate for a false reason. This transparency is exactly what we want. Mrs Den Boer also asked what is the relationship between purpose and means in Article 44 WWM. The central question in dealing with the application is whether you can entrust someone with a weapon or leave to do so. If there is reason to fear, that application must be refused. That assessment can only make up for the Chief Constable if he has all the relevant information. Mr Van Dam has already made some observations on this. In my two examples, I think it is relevant that someone has thrown a grenade at a mosque or that he has called on the Internet for the armed struggle in Syria or anywhere else. Mrs Den Boer also asked if I would go further than the directive requires with Article 44. I'm gonna have to explain that to you. The arms directive, if I may say so, requires, for ease of reference, that we introduce these rules so that we can get to grips with the possession of weapons. Because such authorisation requires all relevant data to be taken into account, the GDPR requires that this law should include that the Chief Constable may process personal data from which matters relating to religion, ethnicity, race and so on can be identified. So there are no heavier or different requirements than those required by the directive, both the arms directive and the GDPR, I would like to emphasise that. Then Mrs Den Boer asked: how can you prevent arbitrariness and abuse of special personal data? The point is that the Chief of Staff is the controller within the meaning of the GDPR, so he is bound to the GDPR and is under the supervision of the Personal Data Authority. The controller, the Chief of Staff, should take all appropriate measures, technical and organisational, and should therefore also demonstrate to the Personal Data Authority that he does so in accordance with the GDPR. And I am not talking about the need to justify the individual decision, for example a refusal of a gun licence. There is, of course, another review by the independent judge. Then Mr Van Dam of D66 asked, says on my note, but that must have been a nice contamination of this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u81	I find this entrapment. It's only gonna get worse this way, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u82	However, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to take full care with regard to the registration of the special personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u83	Yeah, I think this is the kind of personal data that you're not supposed to bring. I think this was a question from Mrs Den Boer, because that is how I remember it. How is it that for such an important competence as laid down in Article 43, a PIA has never been created? It's not made, I just want to say. There may have been a misunderstanding about it, but there's no PIA. For the viewers, that's a privacy impact assessment. A privacy impact assessment has not been made here, as no new power to process special personal data has been introduced. This competence already existed, it alone has now been elaborated more explicitly, because the GDPR says that you should explicitly lay it down in the law. Mrs Den Boer then asked whether an evaluation would be carried out in the exchange of data between Member States. The establishment of rules on the system has been delegated to the Commission. The Commission's proposal was first discussed in an expert group of Member States on 7 February. It is proposed to use the existing Internal Market Information System as a platform for that exchange of information. It follows that, according to the Commission's proposal, leave has been refused, stating the name, date of birth, place of birth and nationality. The system does not specify why such leave has been specifically refused. Whether that system should be evaluated will be decided by the Commission, but you can see that the whole of the rudimentary data is included in it. In this proposal, therefore, the exchange with other Member States goes through the internal market information system. This will be limited to the authorities competent in the Member States to process such data for these purposes. As far as I'm concerned, you have a hermetically sealed, well-functioning, reliable system. As far as the long retention period is concerned, it is in the directive and I have no freedom to depart from it. I shall come back to what I have just discussed with you; how carefully that is put together, including as regards the sharp control by the Personal Data Authority. The Chief Constable has to answer to that. Is this breach of privacy with the use of special personal data necessary? Is the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity met? Then I'll come back to target binding. It is only about the personal data that are relevant to the answer to the question of whether someone is a weapon to be entrusted. This is an objective binding that meets those requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the two amendments. The first amendment, in part No. 8 concerns the expiry of Article 44. I stress that this article was adopted in the context of the examination of the GDPR Adaptation Act. Arms leave can only be given to someone to whom that weapon can be entrusted. The police are doing a good job of investigating that. It's just a question of whether there's any reason why someone shouldn't trust that weapon. We must state in the law that the police file, a report or any other document may reveal data relating to race or religion. But, I keep repeating, those circumstances are zero relevant to the assessment of whether someone can be trusted with a weapon. So they can't be taken by the Chief Constable. I'm just saying it out loud. Mr. Chairman. I have the two examples I have already mentioned here, so it saves time. They are about the follower of a jihadist movement and the mosque grenade launcher, if that exists. I think those examples are clear. That's what it's about. You're a member of a violent organization. What is the basis of that organization is not interesting. You're a violent person. What's your origin or your background isn't interesting for that gun license. I think I've said enough about that. I have also said that I really want to emphasise that, through the President to Mrs De Boer..... that information that emerges from the investigation should not be used without that legal basis. So if we remove Article 44, we can no longer use special personal data, for example that someone has expressed himself on the Internet as a supporter of the armed struggle or has thrown a grenade into a building. And that's irresponsible. Again, understand me correctly: we have this provision in the law precisely in order to create transparency. If you remove the provision from the law, the Chief Constable no longer has permission to use special personal data, such as the data I just outlined. One of you, I believe, Mr Van Dam, referred today to a very nasty game, Russian roulette. Indeed, the chief of police must simply gamble in the blind to see if he can grant the licence. So I really must advise against this amendment. I hope that my several times repeated, clear statement that you absolutely cannot allow race, religion, ethnic origin or anything else to take into account the question of whether someone is granted a gun permit, provides sufficient comfort for D66. There is a second amendment, in part No. 9. That's about the assessment. When I read the amendment, I wonder how you determine the effectiveness of data processing. Then you should also check whether it is important how many times data have led to a rejection of the application, or what information it was about. However, it is more difficult for me to address this question here, and that is why it is necessary for evaluation to highlight the special personal data appearing in the police investigation as such in future. That marking is necessary to know that in those cases there was a particular personal data to be involved in the evaluation, as this is requested. In doing so, such an evaluation will process the data in question further than is currently the case. That is in fact contrary to the principles which D66 has made quite understandable. To put it mildly, this evaluation is counterproductive. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I hope that D66 realises that the evaluation in this form is going to get the wrong result, because it is going to process the data much more, more than is needed and more than is happening now. Anyway, Mrs. Den Boer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u84	I'm trying to listen carefully to the Minister's words. I'm still processing the examples he gives a little bit. He often referred to the word "violent." D66 really is about special personal data such as race, religion, belief and so on, and not about the adage "violent." However, this morning I read in the Volkskrant that the Minister has removed the concerns of the Chamber. At least he tried to address them, but I'm afraid there have been some misunderstandings. If I may quote: "Applicants of a gun permit will not be asked for personal characteristics such as religion or political opinion. The controversial article in the new Arms and Ammunition Act, on the processing of personal data as a race and ethnic origin, is in fact superfluous and does not give the police any new competence." It was in the paper this morning. And when I read this like this, I ask the Minister, then the Minister seems to agree with D66, so why does he not support the amendment correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u85	I find it a little difficult to respond to the newspaper here. I think it is a very pleasant newspaper in general and I also like to read it on weekends. But I'm gonna go back. I'd like to repeat it. What happened? The GDPR, that very important big European directive, required that, in those situations where personal data were processed, we report that in the relevant law. A legal basis was needed. So my officials have made sure that there is also an article in the AVG Adaptation Act that reads: "Article 44 of the Arms and Ammunitions Act will read as follows." And then just comes the text as the GDPR says. That means that Article 44 of the Arms and Ammunitions Act was adopted in this spring, sometime in May or June. At the same time, because we did not know whether the Adaptation Act would be earlier or this legal treatment, Article 44 has also been included, to be sure. That has become an obsoleet, that is what we call it, because it is already in the law, and so I wrote to your Chamber by letter of amendment: Article 44 is repealed in this bill, because it has now been adopted. That's how it happened. And that the Volkskrant writes something else, I am so sorry. I want to call them tomorrow, but I can't do much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u86	I'm gonna get a little confused about this anyway. Look, the Minister of Justice and Security states that he has no intention of processing special personal data, but he says that the police can run into this kind of information. He just used words like "come to light" or "may turn out." They should then be able to use, process or exchange such special personal data with other Member States. I just don't get this. I still think it's vague and shady. You can only run into it if you've collected that data before, can't you? So why don't you just take that part of the article out of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u87	But I never said the police didn't... I'm just saying, and I even read it: "The police can process personal data." For example, one person is that I wear mostly blue suits. I'm just telling you. That's crazy enough not relevant to the Arms and Ammo Act. So that's no reason to refuse me a permit, at least I should hope so. But that's also a personal detail. A personal statement is also that someone on the Internet has called for an attack on a Catholic church. I'm just getting it out of the sensitive domain of mosques and synagogues. If, because of abuse in the church, someone has called for the basilica in Den Bosch to be set on fire, so to speak, it is a person given. That's what's known about the guy. That as an underlying fact shows that those who have as philosophical beliefs atheism, anti-Catholicism or whatever, is not at all relevant. The point is that he's expressed himself as a potentially dangerous person, and that's something the Chief Constable needs to know. The law now states that this is a personal data that can be processed, but now I come to it that can show what your race or ethnic origin is. There's nothing we can do about that. We cannot go away with the fact that a jihadist in 99 out of 100 cases and perhaps in 100 out of 100 cases is a Muslim or that someone who wants to set a Catholic church on fire in 99 out of 100 cases is fiercely anti-papist. We can't get rid of that, but it's irrelevant. Do you understand? But you have to say: listen, I'm going to collect data that can show ethnic origin, political opinion and so on; I have to do that from the GDPR, dear people, but those things are not relevant, because they don't fit in with the goal-binding. I have said it twenty times now: we are really not going to use it in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u88	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u89	The point is that the Minister now uses terms such as "relevant" or "relevant." I believe that it is necessary, useful and necessary to process special personal data. It's still in the law now, and if it's not relevant, it can be out of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u90	It's really relevant to a gun license or someone known as a rioter, a violent person or someone who intimidates others. Now I am speaking as a minister: I think that is relevant in the assessment of an arms licence. The fact that there is underlying talk of someone with an extreme hoppup political conviction or someone who is Roman-Catholic, that can also be seen from the file................................................................................................................................................................ The point is that this person is violent, intimidating, messed up or whatever. That's the point. And that's a personal detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u91	I would like to prevent us now from putting a brake on the Minister's explanation or the police from doing the work with flour in their mouths. That is why I would like to ask the Minister specifically whether my interpretation is the right one. Every example is hard because you put someone in a corner, so I'm just gonna keep it to myself. I take as an example a radicalized Protestant who is going to use violence; I will just mention what. Do I understand correctly that this article allows the police to process that I am a radicalized Protestant? My file in the Verona system, where the police record the weapons, appears: Mr. Van Dam is a radicalized Protestant. Only, the argument why my weapon is being taken away is not that I am a Protestant, but that from my radicalized Protestant I am willing to use violence. The latter is the argument. That's how I understood it. I think it is very important to have this clear, because I would very much like to see Article 44 as well as Article 44 which makes it possible to establish that I am a radicalised Protestant. In my view, that is what Article 44 entails. Only, what I don't want and what we all don't want is that sec being the Protestant is an argument to withdraw that permit. It's about the fact that I'm willing to use violence and that I'm lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u92	I have emphasized it a few times now, but I say it again through the President to Mrs Den Boer and Mr Van Dam: the motive for your violence is irrelevant in the assessment. So that's the fact that might prove to be true. The point is that you are violent, disturbed or intimidating. That information must be made available to the police. If we delete Article 44, that file will go away. And then someone like that gets... I don't want to think about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u93	I fully agree with the Minister. The behavior or the likelihood of that behavior determines whether or not to grant it, but at the same time it seems to me quite logical that the police should be able to capture extensively what is underneath and that there are elements of special personal characteristics in it. That's how I see Rule 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u94	I believe you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u95	That could prove to be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u96	In my view, the Minister has also been giving his opinion on the various amendments, including the amendment on evaluation. He does not see the amendment as it has been formulated. We're having a discussion right now. For example, we say that the motive why someone is violent is irrelevant. It might be good to keep an eye on whether the police are doing this properly. So is it possible to amend the amendment in that sense, that that is the point that is also being evaluated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u97	I think that is a very constructive thought. Forgive me if I am a little out of my mind right now; perhaps I can be very sharp in the second term. However, you might imagine that in an evaluation in five years' time you say that the reports of the Dutch Data Protection Authority show that the use of the competence of Article 44 has not or hardly led to the entry outside the target binding of the Arms and Ammunitions Act. There may always be a doubt, but when I say "barely," that power is actually being used for what it was meant to be. Why do I refer to the Personal Data Authority? We must at least involve them in such an evaluation, because it is of course best to give the opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u98	Mrs Buitenweg, as the amendment has now been formulated, has been "dissuaded'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u99	It is of course also Mrs Den Boer's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u100	Exactly. If it is amended, it must be re-submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u101	I'm gonna see if I can do that together with Mrs. Den Boer. Or alone or with other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u102	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u103	I've exposed my soul to that. On the one hand, I think it is right for me to hear the question and, on the other hand, to find out that we are going to continue the discussion in order to carry out such an evaluation. But then it has to be an evaluation that you say, okay, we're gonna do it that way. We look at whether it has remained within the target binding and, as far as I'm concerned, we also involve the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a few more questions on other subjects. I will go through that again with as few words as I have so far. I don't know why they're laughing now. Mr Van Dam asked: has the Minister spoken to the police about the tasks and can the police carry out the tasks? Then, of course, we are mainly talking about the workload. The police are fully prepared for the introduction of the bill. The proposal does, however, have an impact on the performance of police chiefs' duties, as it has been worked out in the pleading. That intensification is covered. The incidental costs are borne by my department and the structural costs are covered by an increase in the fee or the levying of new fees when it comes to new tasks such as the decommissioning of the authority weapon. As your Chamber knows, there are critical reports from the V&J Inspection. It's now called the JenV Inspection. It indicates that the performance of the Chief of Staff tasks needs to be improved. The police also need additional capacity for that. Those chief of police duties are now largely covered by the police's lump sum funding. A smaller proportion comes from the fees charged. In order for the police to be able to deploy more capacity, as a first step from January last I increased the fee under the WWM. I would like to add a personal note in the direction of Mr Van Dam. I personally spoke to the Chief Constable about this myself. If the answer is a little mechanical, it's because I want to do it as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij had asked about the task of the Chief of Staff: are the executive officials able to grant the leave? That question is in line with the Van Nispen motion, whether the police have sufficient capacity to conduct background checks. Yeah, I think so. That task has been carried out by the police for several decades. So if there is some knowledge and experience to do background checks, for example, then that's with the police. That does not alter the fact that the police need additional capacity to ensure that they are able to commit to their task. In any case, I have already said this; that fee has already been increased. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to an important issue: the fight against illegal weapons. Among other things, Mrs Laan, Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Buitenweg, but also Mr Van Dam, asked questions about this. What tools does the EU directive offer in this respect? Moreover, the Netherlands has strict arms legislation internationally. The legislative proposal we are discussing will have to help ensure that there are sufficient safeguards to prevent legal firearms from disappearing into the illegal circuit. With this implementation, additional tools will be made available to do something not only in the Netherlands, but also throughout the EU about the leaking of weapons. It is also important that uniform European rules are now in place for decommissioned weapons, especially in order to prevent them from being converted into working ones. That underlying EU regulation was further updated on feasibility last March, as I reported to your Chamber earlier. There really were some serious gaps in that old directive. Another measure is that there will be rules to prevent alarm and signal weapons from firing real bullets. But it is a fact that, despite the rules and bans, there is also an illegal arms circuit and that these weapons are mainly from abroad, often Balkan countries. Significant progress has been made in the field of information exchange between Member States in recent years. Information is more often shared internationally about people who are refused arms licences. Criminal investigations into illegal arms trafficking often take place through international cooperation between different police forces. The national firearms officer plays a central role in the Dutch contribution. This improves the information position of firearms, including the fight against the trafficking of firearms on the Internet. This approach has already led to many successes: several large finds and seizures of lots of weapons and explosives. Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, I believe it is necessary to strengthen the fight against illegal possession of arms and the trafficking of illicit weapons in the coming years. That is why, at the end of 2018, I tabled a bill proposing to double the penalty for illegal possession and trafficking of heavy firearms. It went to your Chamber in November 2018, to be precise, and on 18 December, your Chamber adopted the report. In consultation with the College of Attorney General, the regional mayors and the police force leadership, I have also included the approach to weapons in the new Security Agenda. As you know, it sets out the priorities until 2022. In order to give hands and feet to that increased prioritisation, OM, police and my ministry are currently exploring, also in the light of the broader undermining approach, the possibilities to further strengthen the approach to illegal weapons. The ambition, the societal impact that we want to achieve over the next four years and the action lines to achieve them are set out in a joint action programme. Prioritising the search for identified firearms will also be one of the points in this reinforced approach. That also makes sense when it is so high in the Security Agenda. On Mrs Buitenweg's question, specifically about weapons from former Yugoslavia, I can say that the directive on which this bill is based also provides the framework for dealing with this trade. Then I'll mention the stricter marking rules, which allow weapons to be better traced by the police, and the exchange of information on denied engagements. Police cooperation in dealing with illegal weapons is also taking place at a more practical level, including in and with the European Union, and that is very important to Europol. That is an agency that is still under-utilised in this sort of thing. Then there's the arms drop-off. Let me tell you straight away the plot of my speech: I think that is an excellent idea. In the Rotterdam region, this successful return action has been launched. Recently, there were 262 surrendered weapons, including 60 firearms. That really deserves to be followed. The approach to arms will be given an increased priority in the coming years. I therefore believe that a motion on this point will be given to me without further ado. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few other questions. Of course, that's always hopeful, for you, because then we're almost there. What is the reason for the delay in implementation? That was a question from Mr Van der Staaij. Your Chamber had many good, critical questions that required a precise answer. The mandatory consultation and advisory steps have also taken some time. I continue to work for the implementation law to enter into force as soon as possible. This can, of course, be done as quickly as the parliamentary debate has been concluded. In the meantime, six Member States have transposed the Directive into law. Then there was the administrative burden to which Mr Van Dam and Mr Van der Staaij asked. In order to implement Mr Van der Staaij's motion, a process was launched in early 2018 to improve the Arms and Ammunitions Act and the implementation practice associated with the law. In this context, improvements have been discussed and identified with all relevant parties. The desired goals of the motion to relieve the burden have been explicitly taken into account in the various discussions that have taken place. The extension of the leave and hunting license period was discussed in an early 2018 process, which, in addition to this bill, looks at the improvement of the WWM and the implementation practices associated with the law. I have to cough; that's the emotion. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the last two questions, of which Mrs Buitenweg's first is. It dealt with the content of the Commission's proposal for a computerised system. The maintenance of such a computerised system is an obligation imposed on all Member States. In the Netherlands we have the Verona system of the police. It is therefore an information exchange system for the refusal of the readmission and export of arms within the EU. But I said before that there are only a few text proposals now, in February. So we're still talking. Finally, Mrs Laan-Selschap asked about the effects of the bill for shooting associations and guilds. That question was, of course, implicitly hidden in Mrs Helder's speech, I might add. In accordance with the commitment of my predecessor to your Chamber, close contact has been maintained throughout the legislative process with interested organisations such as the KNSA, the umbrella organisation for shooting sports, and the KNTS, the traditional shooters. The starting point was to minimise the adverse effects of the Directive. In the end, traditional shooting is not affected at all by the change in the law. In fact, I had also kept up with the Volkskrant article that the KNSA was so positive about it at least by the chairman. Shooting associations need to be formally recognised in the future. This condition applies above all to the heavier disciplines. The recognition requirements are not a problem for the shooting associations which are currently certified by the KNSA mentioned above. A single shooting association active in the Netherlands does not want to conform to the quality requirements of the KNSA. They will have to demonstrate separately that they are physically complying with the legal requirements. For the rest, the bill has no direct impact on shooting associations. Mr President, I will conclude. I understand that I want to end with the questions asked by D66. I think it is also good that we have had a critical discussion about this. In the end, I think it is very important that we all note that personal data of ethnic origin, race, religion, belief, sexual orientation and so on do not play a role and should never play a role in the application for any authorisation. Not just a gun license, but every permit. It is true that this law, in accordance with the GDPR, is in any case very transparent: the Chief Constable can process special data from which other data on ethnicity and so on can be found. But I hope through you, President, that I have reassured D66 sufficiently by saying that it is not about race, religion, etcetera, etc., but that it is about, for example, data that shows that someone is violent or is screwing up. Data on the person when it comes to ethnic origin, religion, race, political belief will never play a role, also given the intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u104	About the KNSA. I would just like to say to the Acts that it is not true that the KNSA is so positive about this. At some point in time, I think, the KNSA sent an e-mail to all the roommates in which she says: listen, we always worked together with the minister and previously the Secretary of State when it comes to requiring membership of a KNSA member of the shooting association, and then to issue a permit. That was somewhat abandoned by the Minister. The KNSA was disappointed about that, but that was no reason to advise negatively on the bill; I would like to have noticed that. The second point I would like to make is that members of a shooting association are indeed affected, as the fees go up. That is exactly what I said in the first term: people who simply want to practice a sport legally and who rightly have to meet strict requirements are affected. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u105	"Being touched" is perhaps a somewhat unfortunate expression in this context. I quoted from the aforementioned piece from the Volkskrant. You should not always rely on everything in the newspaper, but the director of the KNSA, Mr Sander Darkshof, is quoted there, who says he is reassured. I think that is a good thing. I understand there are always things in life that we can do better together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u106	I have just given a certain interpretation on the basis of my example. Perhaps the Minister will be able to state very briefly in the second term whether I have seen it correctly or not. I imagine it would take a little consideration to do that, but it would help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u107	I'm prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u108	This is an incentive for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u109	I think I really need a second term in order to process the idea that Mr Van Dam is acting as a violent Protestant. But I'll come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u110	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the members for a second term. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u111	Thank you, Mr President. We have had an intensive debate. I shall shortly read out the motion for a resolution on the return action, signed not only by myself but also by Mrs Laan, Mrs Buitenweg, Mrs Den Boer, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Nispen. Before I do that, I actually want to ask one more thing, not the cabinet, but D66. Is it possible that, in your second term, you will also be able to clarify what you are doing with your amendments to items Nos. 8 and 9 do? Indeed, there is some contradiction or inconsistency between these two amendments. So it would help me to hear a clear position on that. I say this in the light of the debate we have had. Perhaps another thought has arisen on your side. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the increasing frequency of incidents involving firearms in residential areas, sometimes in broad daylight;]] [[Considering the need to work in all possible ways to remove illicit weapons from circulation;]] [[noting that from 21 January to 3 February 2019 in Rotterdam the successful return action "From your weapon without punishment" ran, which led to the surrender of over 260 weapons and 650 kilos of ammunition;]] [[Whereas similar action in other municipalities could lead to fewer weapons being placed on the black market;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to organise a national surrender action where people can turn in weapons without being punished, and inform the Chamber about this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Dam, Laan-Geselschap, Buitenweg, Den Boer, Van der Staaij and Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34984-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u112	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u113	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and to draw only a brief conclusion on the main point of this evening's debate: is it desirable or not to open the possibility of processing special personal data if this is in the interests of security? I found the Minister's answer clear. It has strengthened me in the belief that it is a necessary and valuable part of the current law. It is already law, but I think it would even be an unacceptable threat to our security if we had to say: nothing can be registered if you can derive anything from it about religion or political belief. Then very relevant information, as the Minister has mentioned examples of, should no longer be recorded. Once again, my group has been strengthened in the belief that it really is a necessary and valuable part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u114	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I call Mrs Laan-Selschap. No? Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u115	That can be very brief, Mr President. I would also like to come back to the D66 amendments. I often disagree with this Minister, very often, but not tonight. I also think that the Minister has explained why it is necessary for Article 44 to be incorporated into the law. Actually, there are quite some heavy qualifications given to the D66 amendment. It would be unacceptable and would involve major risks. I'm afraid I'm going to have to agree with the Minister tonight. I really do not think it is wise to adopt that amendment. I also very much hope that Mrs Den Boer has been persuaded by this debate or that she will be able to explain to me why this amendment should be retained. Then I have a question about Amendment No 2. 9. I also understand the Minister's objection to this. If you want to know how many times sensitive data are recorded, processed and so on, and you want to see if they are handled properly, then a possible unintentional consequence of the amendment would be that you should process that kind of data more often. I think that's undesirable, too. At the same time, I understand the purpose of the amendment. I, too, have asked critical questions about the processing of special personal data for a reason. I would appreciate it if we could, in some way, keep an eye on how often that happens and whether, in practice, it is being dealt with exactly as the Minister has explained today. So let me finish with a question to the Minister. Can he find a way of doing justice to the proposed amendment to item No. Nine?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u116	If I have followed the debate well, then the Minister has already made some kind of start. We have to wait and see what the petitioner does with that. Finally, Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answers. It wasn't an easy discussion. It was a very fundamental discussion. It was very good to have those with the colleagues here in the Chamber. I have tabled two amendments. I will go into further detail on Amendment No 1 to Article 44 on the processing of special personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u118	That's no. Eight minutes before the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u119	Yeah, sorry. I don't have it in front of me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u120	Your first amendment is that in part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u121	Thank you. With regard to Amendment No 2, the evaluation, I am now going to look at a possible adjustment or a change. Of course, such an amendment is not intended to be counterproductive. I would like to thank Mrs Buitenweg for the outstretched hand in adjusting this amendment in such a way that the Chamber can possibly agree to it. But of course there is still some technical work to be done here. Amendment 1 has...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u122	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u123	Yes, excuse me, the amendment to part No. 8 has the preference and the amendment to item No. 9 is, of course, a second option, if that other amendment, that in part No. 8, not receiving sufficient support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u124	This raises questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u125	Yeah, I get that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u126	Because I understood correctly that Mrs Den Boer said: I am going to consider the amendment to item No. 8. That means, at least, that I would think: we will leave the debate on us for a while, and perhaps I will come to Mrs Den Boer's conclusion that the Minister is right that Article 44 should remain in the law. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u127	I am going to let the debate work on me for a while and then I want to think about it myself. Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to finish with a positive note. Not only thank you for this debate, but also support for Mr Van Dam's motion for the national arms return action. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u128	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u129	Mr President, I will be as brief as possible. I'll start with the motion in part No. 10. That's what I'm saying: Judge Room. I have already said this and explained it during the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u130	The motion in part No. 10 by Mr Van Dam cum suis gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u131	Yeah, that was the only motion, too. Mr Van Nispen had a question about the amendment. I can say straightaway that I have just been myself, at least it is but a thought that came to the possibility of that amendment in part No. 9 in a text which reads as follows: "Our Minister of Justice and Security shall send to the States General within five years of the entry into force of this Act a report on compliance with the target binding of the Arms and Ammunitions Act, in particular in the light of Article 44 of the Arms and Ammunitions Act." Then, of course, in the explanatory statement to the amendment, you can state yourself that it is intended that the Personal Data Authority should be explicitly involved in that evaluation. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the fact that D66 is prepared to allow the exchange of views to work on its own again. It graces D66 that it doesn't go so far as to suddenly go to the other side today. Because we always have to share our arguments with each other and then look at them quietly. Mr Van Dam has asked whether he has understood correctly his analysis of himself as a violent Protestant, for example. Yes, you can see that. That's how I want to make it clear. The fact that there is a violent person is the reason to refuse leave. That's the target binding of the Arms and Ammo Act. As a violent person, you cannot be entrusted with a weapon. That you are Protestant is irrelevant, let alone that you are radicalized Protestant, but it will be evident from the police information, if only because you once, as a radicalized Protestant, described the stores of a known agnostic, to name but a few. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I would like to thank you for the leadership of this debate and apologize to the House for the fact that I have destroyed another chair, and to conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u132	We're gonna love to fix it. Thank you for coming to the Chamber. I would like to thank Members for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-31.u133	The law and the motion will be voted on Tuesday. If we vote on the amendments, you will notice later.
