ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35233, Amendment of the Fertilisers Act in connection with the implementation of the Sixth Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u2	I would draw Members' attention to the fact that two Members will make their maiden speech in this first term. I'll ring a bell before every maiden speech. After every maiden speech, I will address the speaker briefly. After the last maiden speech, in this case after Mrs Kluit, I will briefly suspend the sitting for congratulations. I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the following maiden speakers today but also tomorrow: Mrs Kluit, Mrs Nanninga, Mrs Prins-Moderaar and Mr Nicolaï. My heartfelt congratulations. May you make a good speech in this room. Mr. Chairman. In my preparation for this maiden speech, two historical moments shot through me. The first one is, "Here I am, and I can't help myself." That was Luther, who said that in 1521 at that familiar moment. At my age of 72 I am here to help the Netherlands find its way back to connection and prosperity, for all of us children, for us as parents but also for all adults. I do not expect to be made by this first speech, but not by subsequent speeches, in the national ban, as the Luther I mentioned did. The second is a more recent moment in history, namely the moment that was pronounced in this Chamber: here we are now, after a day of meeting, and again nothing has been achieved at all. That is a free speech to fellow senator and chamber nestor, 6,033 days, Mr Kox, who pronounced that late in the evening after a plenary debate in autumn 2019. How then really the results of a long day's meetings were summarised in one sentence. Let us move on to another outcome for today. Madrid didn't make us happy. "Mishap" is called it. You should always look at how the newspapers call that "I wasn't there," but there were a lot of people out there, but it's called "failed." Much remains to be done. Manure, what we are talking about today, is a natural help in the growth of a lot of things. Who doesn't know it? "Nitrate" is also called; one of the many elements of the periodic table. I remember that from high school. More than 100 to go for the government in its climate change agreement. Fortunately, nitrate is really needed for plant growth; therefore it is also in use. Plants grow by converting these nitrates into proteins and sugars. Light, temperature and the amount of nitrates in the soil ultimately determine the nitrate content of the plants. In winter it's a bit higher, in summer it's a little lower. I should therefore like to point out to the Members of this House that the vegetables we are eating at this time, such as beets, spinach, endives, celery, radish and so on, contain a little more nitrate than in summer. Is that a reason to panic? No, not at all. Nitrate does not now prepare the reason to ban spinach. That won't be necessary at all. It would also be a step too far. But, unfortunately, nitrate has turned into a very nasty substance and a cause of a very profound rule forest, not a rainforest, but a forest of rules, also in the directive before us today. Our task as First Chamber is very far-reaching. If we choose a directive or a law, we have also found that it is good of substance and facts, realistic, enforceable, but also enforceable. At the beginning of this year, this government gained a minority in this Chamber through its policy, through the electorate's signal. But it is still not a solution to make a bad directive through a corridor along the majority of opposition parties in the hope that it will succeed. We have seen this in the press this week: the various parties that visit the government and put their letters or thoughts there in the hope that a majority will come from it. But that's too fast. The fact is that there is a party involved. In this case, those are the farmers. Is there as much attention from the government to farmers as to obtaining only a majority? Mr. Chairman. The present directive is cracking, and that evokes a great deal of emotion among those directly involved. We have spoken to heavily emotional farmers. Families at their wits' end. Do these farmers really matter before the government? Do they matter? Let us make that work for us: the dossier that hits one of the things that the Netherlands is proud of more and more. Our farmers, then. Less than 0.5% of our population are farmers. They provide food for all of us. They also ensure that 99.5% of our population can freely choose what one does, where one lives and what kind of work one does. Thanks to the farmers and the food they supply us, that is possible. Let's get that right. It's about our farmers, men and women, our fellow citizens. They are distraught by this matter and are being tortured to the limit. Every day and night it goes through them. But luckily, they don't get unreasonable. Even the plush in The Hague can't get around them anymore. Luctor et emergo is very appropriate, also for them. They fight on, but eventually they come up. Farmers: never give up that power, your back pressure is so recognizable, even for us as a Forum for Democracy. The peasants are certainly not saved. This does not fit in with the mentality and strength of our farmers, the model of our society. We understand that all too well. The government has cast its sovereignty over the fence into the EU, imaginary or imaginary, because we are still talking about open borders. Politicians and governments always talk about Europe when it is meant to talk about the EU. That's special. We're going through the Brexit that's ahead of us now. England is leaving the EU, but does not leave Europe. Europe is still a little more than the EU. I would just like to take this opportunity to congratulate the English on the fact that a decision has finally been taken there. That is why I and we want the media to have a more visionary input, because a lot of things were taken wrong. The Brexit Forum for Democracy, as you all know, also gives a fourth seat in the EU. We would like to thank our loyal, passionate and enthusiastic voters for this. Mr. Chairman. Our government, with a third support for its policy, is continuing its climate change activities. She acted with the motto "confidence in the future." Then you put something down, because you're talking about the word "trust," whether it's in the future or now. Can you have faith? I can tell you that, among other things, confidence in farmers has not yet been achieved, but what is not is still possible. Now the atmosphere lives more: we can't make it more fun, but more unfeasible, free to the department and the service of Secretary of State Snel. Mr. Chairman. Back to the directive. We have a number of questions. I'll start with that. I forgot to greet you, Minister, but do so. It is also useful to address the questions to you. There is an excessive amount of EU regulation. Can't the Netherlands without it? Natura 2000 sites are incredibly hard on us. When's this reclassification gonna come? Why isn't there going to be a reduction? And if not, why isn't it there yet? When transposing EU directives in the Netherlands, we are almost the best boy in the class. We're also making mistakes in that conversion. When are the directives being transposed and why are we holding on to them so cramped, at the expense of the activity in the Netherlands, if they just don't work? There is a lot to note on the calculation method. We've heard there's been a court hearing. A verdict has also been reached. Why is the outcome not being corrected? And when will the right assumptions come? And are these, Minister, still going to be incorporated into the directive? The sector is constantly faced with facts. Why is it not being discussed with the sector, and above all, why is it not being listened to? Then I do not mean that we say last minute: 'come by tomorrow', or 'we read what you say and we see you sometimes'. I mean listen seriously, connect with that sector, understand what they mean and act accordingly. The government must not explain why it is acting, but must connect and come to a conclusion. Next item. A generic discount is an unfair measure. Why is this measure being taken? What better alternative can you offer to the field? It is obvious not to take such a measure, but I am curious what the Minister has to say about it. When are you going to change that measure? Projects of general interest may become mandatory. How is it prevented from being abused, that projects should be marked in the public interest? How's the government gonna prevent that? How is she going to ensure that this point remains trusted in her actions? Why is that not more specific? It would have been easier to understand. Threshold values are an important point. We can see that in the nitrogen debate. The thresholds should be realistic. Why isn't that the case? What are you going to do about this and, in particular, when are you going to do that? The feed trail. The multi-choice trail was a completely new word for me in this. Why isn't this being deployed? What are you going to do to make this bet? Then there's the derogation. It looks like an EU hostage situation. Why are we bringing that up so late? Why did we bring that great uncertainty to the people? Why isn't it handled in a way where we say we have our own sovereignty? So, as an incredibly competent country, let us decide what we have in our own knowledge and, above all, in our own skills. Mr President, I shall begin with the final question. I want to talk about the legal basis. We ask ourselves this, of course, before we adopt the laws or in this case directives that we will eventually pass in this Chamber. How is this whole process now free from a possible legal joust? How sure is it that we will be protected from this and what prevention has been devised for this? Mr. Chairman. You can taste many questions from us that raise great hesitation. In the second term, I would like to come back to this. We are assuming that the government is now going to take the right steps to put the interests of farmers really down and that it is really going to take account of their individual situations as well. We are very curious about your answers and action plans in this regard. In conclusion, we want to say to the farmers: persevere, continue your struggle; you have Forum for Democracy on your side, but you also have the Netherlands on your side. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr. Van Pareren, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. At the Nyenrode institute you have been trained to work in international business. You were particularly interested in the fields of law, economics, psychology and sociology. You started work at Philips and later Organon, companies that were also involved in the creation of Nyenrode in 1946. The medical sector continued to interest you. You also sought further training at Harvard and INSEAD. You were introduced to the work of Manfred Kets de Vries and his ideas of leadership, and of Edward de Bono, with his theory of lateral thinking and the concept of the six hats. From the international business community, you made the transition to entrepreneurship in 1999. You became director and co-owner of Medux, supplier of mobility and rehabilitation tools. In addition, you acted as spokesperson for Harting-Bank, one of the companies of Medux Groep, and Firevaned, the industry association for providers of rehabilitation and mobility tools. You stayed that way until your retirement in 2012. Afterwards, you continued to be a consultant with Medux and Firevaned. After your professional life, you took a new, hitherto unknown path, that of politics. You got involved in the Forum for Democracy and you were a member from day one. Within the party, you are among others a member of the Committee on Positions. In March 2019 you were elected as a member of the Provincial States of South Holland. Three months later, you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Your group chairman in this Chamber called you 'a pillar for all of us'. A subtle reference to your height, perhaps. A length you also came in handy with the rugby. Until the seniors, you practiced the sport. One of the core values in rugby is discipline. According to these rugby values rugbyers are quirky but are bound by the rules, regulations, standards and values within sport. Where "rugbyers" is written, you can also read "politicians." Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u6	I now give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u7	I hadn't even started and it was already off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u8	We're getting tighter here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u9	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Preventive measures. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Van Pareren on his maiden speech. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Kluit on her maiden speech, but she has to do it first; then I will certainly congratulate her. The basis of the European Union was economic cooperation. However, it is becoming more and more like economic opposition. While our farmers are innovating to keep their businesses on track, this cabinet, together with the European Commission, is drawing the green strangle around our agricultural sector increasingly tighter. This is true of our agricultural sector, which has a leading role in international affairs. Not only are Dutch agricultural products of high quality, they also have the lowest environmental impact in the world according to ABN AMRO's 2017 research, entitled Agricultural: circular from home. Instead of the Dutch farmers getting recognition for this in action, and not just in words, the Minister is going to ask the European Commission for a derogation with the hat in his hand. That is where she has to wring and beg herself in all sorts of turns to see if we can please deviate from the generally agreed standard. Well, that's what you get for the political elite handing our country over step by step to the Brussels dictators and dragging our agricultural sector into an underdog position. And now the powerful and appointed European Commission can grant a derogation under conditions which they set out. Mr. Chairman. For example, the European Commission requires that national manure production ceilings and section ceilings with the exception of the category of other animal species are laid down in legislation. For example, the European Commission requires for the granted derogation Decision 2018-2019 that the total production of manure in both nitrogen and phosphate does not exceed the level of the year 2002. However, the European Commission does not insist that a sector ceiling should not be exceeded. It's the Minister's choice. The Minister states that such a generic discount could be avoided. This is a deliberate delay for pig farmers and poultry farmers, as the European Commission states that the total production of manure should not be exceeded. For example, these two sectors are at greater risk of generic discounts and skimming. At present pig rights or poultry rights can be skimmed on transfer. This if the rural ceiling and the sectoral ceiling for the production of animal manure from poultry or pigs is actually exceeded. This proposal will also allow skimming and generic reduction to occur in the event of a threat of overrun. The rate of skimming is then determined on the basis of the forecast. For the sake of clarity, there will be no actual overrun. This cabinet is even worse than the European Commission. The obligation to use a generic discount in the event of an overrun is then converted into the possibility of a generic discount, but left or right: the possibility of using this horse's medicine remains and will hang over poultry and pig farming as the sword of Damocles. Mr. Chairman. The removal of rights, such as pig rights, would not be a removal of ownership. It would be a matter of ownership regulation. It ignores the fact that these rights are negotiable and also represent an economic value. In fact, you're being taken from something that belongs to you. You can call it "property" or "rights," the result is the same, in this case less pigs. In fact, it is an artificial legal construction to reduce livestock. Similar constructions are increasingly emerging. We have seen this recently in the ban on coal for electricity generation. One sets a goal and then puts a battery of civil servants to work to go shopping in legal constructions. This has become the driving force for our current system. If necessary, problems are created that are not there. For example, we are stuck with a so-called nitrogen problem, a CO problem and so on. If they need an extra push in the back, the subsidised NGOs will be put in place. In this case, farmers are badly hit, even though they are not only a highly innovative sector, but also a shrinking sector. In recent years, they have already given hundreds of thousands of hectares for nature. 100,000 acres. And for the building of dwellings and roads. 500,000 acres. The latter is mainly intended to cope with population growth, which is mainly caused by mass immigration. This creates an image of migrants in it, farmers out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Pareren personally and on behalf of my group for his eloquent maiden speech. I hope Mrs Kluit will enjoy that later. It's a privilege to do that and it's nice to do it. I speak from experience, Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal to extend the derogation received broad support in the House of Representatives. I would therefore like to say very little about it in this Chamber, without prejudice to the independent judgment in this House. The main reason is that the agricultural sector is already being given sufficient control. That is the case now, and it will not be much different in future in terms of making the sector more sustainable. Sustainability is a must, with or without the EU, Mrs Faber. However, efforts must be made to avoid too much violence on the earning model. The sector doesn't deserve that. Individual farmers do not deserve this, and the Dutch economy does not deserve it. As a VVD Group, we are convinced that the sector has an innovative strength. They have proven that in the past, and that also creates confidence for the future. That is also ultimately the solution to the problem before us. In short, Mr President. The VVD is for a pass on the spot and with that we are not out of step. Because, as everyone knows and can read, many Member States in the EU are making use of this derogation. All things considered, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We also congratulate Mr Van Pareren and Mrs Kluit on their maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. With the current legislative amendment, the sixth action programme for Nitrate Directive, the Netherlands fulfils the EU's conditions for the derogation granted in 2018. The total production of manure should not exceed the 2002 level. This amendment, which is foreseen as of 1 January 2020, sets phosphate usage standards and introduces a refinement of the current system. The aim of the Directive is inter alia to meet the quality of surface water, which is necessary for man and nature management. The protection of biodiversity is very important for people themselves. According to the CBS, which regularly reports on Dutch emissions, there is no reason to believe that we are going to exceed the emission ceilings set. We also seem to be staying below it for the past year. Good news seems to be the case, but at the same time we now need to lay down the production ceilings in the law as a result of the fertilizer fraud in 2017. In addition, an enforcement system has been introduced. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has 18.5 million larger animals such as pigs, cows, sheep and goats. In addition, around 107 million chickens, turkeys and ducks are kept. In Dutch slaughterhouses 641 million animals are slaughtered each year. By far most of them are chickens for slaughter. We know. We have an extremely intensive livestock farming. This not only causes nitrogen emissions problems, but also other manure problems. In order to manage these problems somewhat, a huge bureaucracy has been created for farmers, but also for the government. We need to record, measure, monitor, maintain, refine, reset and fine and punish everything. Have you ever calculated what this actually costs, I ask the Minister? Is this not an illustration of a system that has crossed borders for too long and whose conversion to circular agriculture is becoming increasingly urgent? In the reply, the Minister also recognises the bureaucratic problems surrounding our fertilizer problem and announces that it will publish a simplification in the spring. That's a good thing. A farmer wants to undertake and has not chosen this course to make it a paper shop. The government can also use its resources better than using them for unnecessary bureaucracy. Can the Minister make the contours of the new system visible? What exactly does it intend to achieve and what principles does it adopt in this regard? The best way to achieve change is, of course, a major adjustment of the sector itself, as the Minister correctly expresses in her plan for achieving her vision of sustainable agriculture in 2030. I assume that its manure vision, less fertilizer and more use of natural manure, will be reflected in the policy presented in spring. To stimulate circular agriculture, a large part of its budget now also goes to activities that contribute to that vision. There is also money available to clean up pig farming. D66 very much welcomes this policy. For the Dutch farmer, for animal welfare and for nature and the environment it is the only way. Can the Minister inform us what the next steps are? Mr. Chairman. Some of the Dutch farmers have already taken the necessary steps. Think of the organic farmers. However, they are often treated in the same way as farmers in intensive livestock farming, thereby being unnecessarily harmed in their business operations. With all the refinements we measure and arrange, shouldn't it be possible to make an exception for them? In my opinion, the Minister did not reply very convincingly to the questions I asked about the problem of nitrogen. I shall come back to that tomorrow at the nitrogen debate, but perhaps it can reassure me already. Example behaviour should be rewarded and not punished. I am considering tabling a motion tomorrow if necessary. Mr. Chairman. We now include sector ceilings in the law. The draft law originally submitted for consultation stated that generic discounts would be applied in the event of infringements. However, on the basis of the internet consultation, the Minister is now releasing this and proposing it only if all other means do not work. She mentions a number of them. We understand that. Only those who deliberately disobey the rules should be punished. Moreover, this also makes it possible to provide tailor-made services for organic farmers or smaller farms that do not have any part of the problems, and I also advocated this. However, the question is what should be applied before the generic discount is removed. Does the Minister wish to reflect on this, also in the light of the Bishop amendment adopted in the House of Representatives? How far do you go when it comes to buying up rights and buying out? The Labour Party in the Lower House rightly asked how phosphate rights actually arose. The Minister replied: the starting point is the policy introduced by the Rutte II cabinet and applied in the scheme to bring about a reform of the pig population. It is then based on market-based prices. How many rights will the Netherlands have to buy up if we want a circular agriculture? How much resources are involved in this? How much resources are available, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u14	I would like to ask Mr Pijlman the following. Earlier in your speech, I noted that you said "there is no need for small businesses to talk about organic farms harmed by all of this." How do you look at large companies being harmed by all the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Van Pareren, would you please address the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u16	I will, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u17	My time went on, by the way, but this aside. I was talking about good behavior. It's not so much about big or small to me. I am concerned about those companies that take responsibility and have already taken all kinds of restrictive measures themselves. I believe that they should be spared when generic measures are taken. And organic farmers are an example of that, but they are not alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u18	I'm glad to hear that it's about the good behavior, about the willingness to cooperate in business. There is therefore no distinction between small or large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u19	You're right about that. Tomorrow I would mention that example, but I can also mention it now: the farmers of Schiermonnikoog. They see what nitrogen emissions do to nature in this national and European UNESCO World Heritage Site. They themselves offer to deliver 35% of their livestock. They started a second branch. I think that is a very good example of taking responsibility. I also think you should reward this type of behavior. But I'll be back in the morning. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the Minister's reply to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I warmly congratulate Mr Van Pareren on his maiden speech, also on behalf of my group. Good luck to Mrs. Kluit. I look forward to it. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party is in favour of this bill because the production ceilings for nitrogen and phosphate are now being laid down by law. If a ceiling is exceeded, the government can also apply a generic reduction in production duties, even if this application has been properly undressed by amendment. All in all, my group considers this to be an improvement, but a minuscule improvement which is disproportionate to the solutions needed to tackle the problem of manure and nitrogen, and whose effectiveness is also questionable. We've known the problem of manure since Greek mythology. Augias had the largest herd in the country, with 3,000 oxen. The stables of the herd hadn't been mucked out in 30 years. Heracles' assignment was to clean the stables in one day. We managed to do that by draining the manure through two rivers. Make this story 200,000 times bigger and we are in the Netherlands of 2019. We do not have 3,000 animals, but the Netherlands slaughter more than 650 million animals per year, which together provide 80 billion kilos of manure. Those 30 years of Augias correspond wonderfully to the 35 years in which we struggle with manure policy and manure fraud. Everything has already been tried to manage the brown stream, but the fact is that manure fraudsters have formed a criminal network in which all policies are bypassed. We have had a two-year derogation, but that period has already been shortened because the Netherlands is known as a country that not only claims an exemption position, but also frauds immeasurably on top of the extra space we are already given. Farmers drive empty trucks back and forth, fake records, tamper with accredited laboratories with manure samples, and bypass large-scale GPS controls. Last week in Trouw, Emiel Hakenes wrote an intrusive article about the systematic violations of law in the manure treatment sector. I quote a fragment: "Three poultry farmers from North Brabant had to answer for violating the Fertilisers Act. All three kept them on their farms more chickens than allowed. Because these illegal animals just poop, they create a higher manure surplus in the Netherlands, with all the consequences for the environment. One of the three suspects, a chicken farmer from Gilze, made it very furious: he was allowed to keep one chicken, but had 228.000 in the year 2018." After the reprimand by the European Commission, the Minister has adopted a reinforced enforcement strategy, but it has not yet paid off in the past year. The odds of fraudsters aren't magnified. In addition to the enforcement of manure fraud, this bill affects the nitrogen crisis in which the Netherlands is currently in the middle. And yet, according to the answer given by the Minister in the Lower House, this bill has not been revised in the context of the nitrogen crisis. In view of these developments, the likelihood of the derogation being granted again is decreasing. Does the Minister have a plan B, in case the derogation is not granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u22	I would like to have some clarification from Mrs Teunissen on what she said about criminal organisations in agriculture, at least that is how I understood it, and words are very important. You're quoting a newspaper article. That is one element, but the Netherlands is bigger than one newspaper article. I think it's quite a serious accusation. I would therefore ask you to clarify this. How big is this criminal organization in the Netherlands? I am very curious about that, Mr President; can you tell us more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u23	I cannot, but I can ask Mrs Teunissen to do so. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u24	The Party for Animals has called for extensive attention to be paid to the manure fraud. We've even had an interplay about that in this house. Last year, a large-scale investigation into manure fraud was published in the NRC. This shows that this is not an incident, but that it is a large-scale and inherent aspect of agriculture's culture. I appeal to you. The information that's out there shows that it's not an incident, it's part of a culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u25	I understand that you indicate that the culture of agriculture is actually criminal. That's how heavy it is. Do I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u26	I didn't say culture was a criminal. I said that crime involving manure fraud is widespread within the Dutch livestock sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u27	Mr. Van Pareren, a third?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u28	Yeah, this is the last one. You say "large-scale." How big is that percentage of the whole thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u29	That cannot be verified since the NVWA, the regulator, currently has too little capacity to get a complete picture of the manure fraud, but as I also pointed out, I repeat, a lot of information has come up in the NRC's investigation. It turns out, therefore, that it is not an incident, but part of the culture within livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u30	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u31	I have one more question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u32	This was your third. You just said it was your last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u33	But no answer was given to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u34	One more, Mr. Van Pareren. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u35	You indicated that government enforcement did not succeed. There aren't enough people for that. But your whole speech builds on a journalist from the NRC, who can do that for a while. That's what it looks like now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u36	Would you like to speak to the chairman, Mr Van Pareren?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u38	I'm not going to repeat the NRC's entire investigation here. I would advise Mr Van Pareren to look at this research and see how many figures are not mentioned in it. Again, I base myself on that. This shows that there is large-scale manure fraud. And this isn't the only investigation that has appeared. We've seen several investigations over the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u39	I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u40	I would like to go on with this because we are talking about 'a culture' and 'large-scale crime and fraud'. This is damaging to a large group of entrepreneurs who cannot defend themselves here. It is, I think, a good practice in this Chamber not to talk about groups of which we cannot even point out whether what is said about them is true and not just on the basis of one investigation by one of the newspapers to put such a group completely away. Could Mrs Teunissen still respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u41	I quoted this as one of the examples of manure fraud. But the cabinet had to set up a stronger enforcement strategy for a reason. The information currently available shows, therefore, that there is indeed a need for reinforced enforcement because of manure fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u42	Now I think Mrs Teunissen's wording is much more careful than when she speaks of 'large-scale fraud', because the latter means that a lot of those people in the agricultural sector feel addressed without them possibly being affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u43	I shall continue with my speech and take note of Mr Schalk's comment. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the possibility of the derogation being rejected because of the nitrogen problem, but also because of the manure fraud. My question to the Minister is whether she can assess the likelihood of a new derogation in the context of these developments. Mr. Chairman. The climate crisis, the nitrogen crisis and the problems of manure should be tackled in a coherent way, but this integrated approach has been lacking for decades, with disastrous consequences for animals, nature and the environment. I hope the EU is listening, because there is a lot of shit going on in this little country that wants to be both the butcher and the milkman of the world. At the beginning of 1990, 29 years ago, a committee of experts called for strict nitrogen standards. Nature conservationists advocated a reduction in livestock. Agriculture was looking for less drastic measures. Nothing fundamental has changed. Production ceilings are still too high at the expense of nature and the environment. An ecological balance is farther away than ever. Current manure production leads to a nitrogen overload at three-quarters of our Natura 2000 sites. Of the Dutch waters 99% do not meet the ecological water quality standards of the Water Framework Directive. Does the Minister recognise that the manure ceilings are now too high? Will the Minister ensure that the ceilings are lowered in order to achieve our natural and environmental objectives? And what approach has it taken in this respect, given the absence of real measures for decades? Mr. Chairman. Last week we were able to read that farmers brought the Rabobank to justice because, according to the farmers, that bank has abandoned its duty of care by focusing on irresponsible growth in the sector. I predict that the same will happen to the farmers who stand up against the traditional peasants, such as the CDA and the VVD, but also to parties such as D66 and the Christian Union, who have completely out of control over the back of farmers, who, on the basis of false expectations, thought to be able to expand significantly without problems and who are deeply in debt. In the meantime, five to seven of them have to stop every day. It must end once and for all with a sector where daddy and wetkeeping is the norm, with active lobbying for less nature so that there is less nature to protect, and with active poison spraying so that biodiversity, literally vital to all of us, falls apart when a house of cards collapses. The cabinet remains for the sake of the sector for fear of loss of vote, disruptive tractors and based on traditional thinking that has long been obsolete. Anyone who dares to change his mind, for example Mr De Groot van D66, former director of the Dutch Dairy Organisation, can freely meditate on half the number of animals in the Netherlands, especially chickens and pigs, but as long as his party in the Second Chamber, the First Chamber and the Cabinet does not have any consequences, that air bike will remain. The cabinet behaves as if it is lackeys of a sector that causes more social costs than benefits, but is not paid for. The government envisages a fundamental review of manure policy in the near future, but wants Brussels to open the locks with vulture through the new derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u44	The speaker indicates that biodiversity will collapse like a house of cards if we are not careful. However, the Compensate for the Environment writes that biodiversity has improved and that species richness of flora and fauna has not decreased over the past thirty years, but has increased. Isn't that contrary to what the speaker claims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u45	There is only 15% of the original biodiversity left in the Netherlands since 1850. That's a huge decline. In some places nature is indeed recovering, but this is not proportionate to the biodiversity crisis we are experiencing worldwide and in the midst of. We're in the sixth extinction wave caused by man. That's what the climate scientists say, but also the biologists. Mrs Faber may be right to say that biodiversity or the restoration of nature is growing a bit, but the great long-term trend is that we are in a frightening decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u46	From this I may conclude that the speaker indicates that the Compound for the Environment is not correct. That's just gibberish, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u47	Then Mrs Faber did not understand my answer. I have said that in some places there may be natural recovery, but this is not proportionate to the long-term trend in the decline in biodiversity that we are seeing. Mr. Chairman. The government envisages a fundamental review of manure policy in the near future, but would like Brussels to open the locks with vulture by means of a new derogation. Is it to be expected that the cabinet will finally break the trend of the fertilization of Dutch nature, which has already been used 70 years ago, with its planned fundamental rethinking of manure policy? Will the need for nature really be better protected? Is the Minister going to focus on the need to reduce livestock? I'd like a response. Mr President, in conclusion. Minister Schouten said from her background that she is a farmer's daughter and that she wants to do something in return for the sector. She also said that it was not just about punishment, but also about mercy. The Minister seems to be taking an advance on that grace by once again reassuringly speaking about the derogation. "Mest is like salt or sugar, if you use too much of it, it becomes a poison." 40 years ago, scientists warned of the consequences of the massive increase in livestock. The sector would offer technological solutions, but all attempts to do so have failed. So the farmer sprinkles the manure on his and other people's land, because that's the cheapest way to get rid of it. With some romantic accounting, there's nothing to worry about on paper. The relationship between livestock farming and the environment is hardly ever measured. It goes through calculations that are always too optimistic. The water in Brabant and Limburg has not complied with the standards for fifteen years, but manure fraud also occurs on a large scale above the large rivers. Let us restore our soil and the environment from the manure that has been poured illegally across the country. My final question to the Minister is therefore: does she think that it shows as much mercy for nature as it does for agriculture? In other words, is she willing to do something in return for nature? I look forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u48	Mrs Teunissen talks about reducing livestock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u49	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u50	Does she think we're actually going to eat less meat? Isn't that production being taken over somewhere else? We have seen, for example, that there is a larger production of chickens in Ukraine. What we produced first is now being produced in Ukraine. Then it just looks like moving "the problem," at least, that's how you see it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u51	The Netherlands is the butcher and milkman of the world. We are the world's second exporter of meat and dairy. If we are going to take measures to reduce livestock and thus make a major contribution to solving the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis, human health, then we are setting a great example to the world. The Netherlands is not an island, we are not alone. There are many more initiatives going on around the world, where you can see that people are going to eat less meat and this problem is being tackled more and more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u52	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u53	I thank Mrs Teunissen for her comprehensive answer, but I do miss one point. Does Mrs Teunissen not think that the production of livestock will then be taken over abroad? We'll see about that movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u54	You can stop any movement of change with this argument. Of course, you'll get some of that companies will move abroad. But we increasingly have international agreements, such as the Paris Convention on Climate Change. This should also include reductions in livestock and meat consumption. They're working on it. So it is a combination, it is en- and, national and international measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u55	Mrs Faber, the third?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u56	This is the last one, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. It's nice, though, that Paris Climate Agreement, because it also says that we can get out, so it's not a showstopper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u57	I call Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u58	I heard a new term from Mrs Teunissen, which is 'romantic accounting'. Could you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u59	By which I mean that everything looks good on paper, but I'm actually referring to the manure fraud. There are things in the books that do not correspond to reality. I just gave an example of a farmer from Gilze, who has one chicken on paper and actually 228,000 chickens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u60	Then I understand that Mrs Teunissen uses "romantic accounting" as a new jargon for fraudulent accounting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u61	I also mentioned manure fraud. That's definitely part of the jargon, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Then Mrs Kluit, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has the floor for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate my colleague Mr van Pareren on his maiden speech and wish him every success and also the people who will have their maiden speech in the coming days I wish him every success, also on behalf of my group. Like you, I'm honored to be standing here. When I applied for the First Chamber I decided to keep some red threads in mind and the theme is actually resilience. Weability of people who, for example, depend on the government, or people who belong to groups that are a minority and therefore vulnerable, or young people who cannot vote yet, but who have to live with choices that we make here. For example, resilience of regions which are not in the political centre, such as The Hague or New York or Brussels, and therefore sometimes fall outside of investment strategies, or are under-represented. You will not be surprised that ecological resilience is also a major theme for me, both for our country and for our planet, as well as fragile values such as nature and the environment, because they have so far been unable to resist the excesses of our economic system. The damage is similar. My predecessor said a lot about that. When I started studying, in 1992, the Treaty of Rio was just concluded. Those were actually several treaties, but at least there was a great optimism about linking ecology, social justice and economic growth. That has been the basis of my actions for a very long time. But with the urgency of the climate problem in mind, now 27 years later, I also have to conclude that little has come of this synergy and that the problem is greater than ever. The results of Madrid confirm this. When you see what the planetary reality has been since I started studying: the temperature has risen half a degree and the average surface area of arctic sea ice has been reduced by a quarter. The Dutch nature and biodiversity, I have a look at you, Mrs Faber, has been cut in half. We are talking not only about species richness, which Mrs Faber is always talking about, but also about the mass of biodiversity. You can see that there is a very negative trend and that we are indeed at 15% of our potential. I think it is important that we bring this kind of data, because that affects all of us. I'll come back to that later. These are also signs and reasons for thinking more fundamentally about the principles behind our economy. We need to look for economic models that are suitable for solving the great challenges of our time. Some will say that we have already solved a lot of environmental problems. Of course, that's true. We have done a lot of work on air quality and water quality. We have also done a lot against ozone and acid rain. That has all been greatly improved, and we can be satisfied with that. But we have not yet met many important global criteria. We are still far in the red, such as the decline in biodiversity, growing deforestation and, of course, warming. Necessary steps are always set against economic growth and therefore do not come about. We really need to force ourselves to look more closely at this and not let ourselves go to sleep by past successes. Look at the World Overshoot Day, the day when people worldwide have used up the raw materials available in a year. Every year this day falls earlier, this year it was on July 29th. If we all lived as we did in the Netherlands, it would take place even in May. With such depletion of raw materials, it is not surprising that the ecological state of our planet is being translated into our real economy and is becoming increasingly an economic factor. As a result, this increasingly affects people's lives. The farmers are an excellent example of this. Well, we'd better get ready. I am very pleased with my colleague Kees Vendrik, who has already said a lot of wise words about this in the General Financial Reviews. The question is when our cabinet and our government, as well as this parliament, are going to translate these new realities and allow them to be translated into our legislative process. The past 25 years have shown that technological progress is not enough to prevent large-scale ecological decline. We need to reset those buttons in the system. An economy in transition needs a very predictable and reliable market master, one that ensures predictability of policies and therefore organises resilience in society in order to make the necessary adjustments. By being predictable, the government allows people time to retrain and adapt. In short, how nice is it to have a government looking ahead, looking at the priorities of the future and focusing on formulating policies that prevent crises rather than becoming a specialist in solving them? Then agriculture. As far as we are concerned, the idea that Dutch farmers will be able to maintain their position as bulk producers for decades to come is an illusion. It is a worrying kind of wishful thinking that ordinary citizens and ordinary farmers will soon pay the price for. Also in other parts of the world they have set up agricultural universities and there have been a lot of Chinese and Indians in Wageningen who have been paying attention and graduated with good grades. In agriculture of the future, the jumping point is not only that you are technologically advanced, but also that you have sufficient surface area. We can do a lot, but the Netherlands is not one of them. Other countries will therefore have more fertile land to use in the future. If we compete with that, we will go far beyond the limits of what is possible in the Netherlands. So we must now make another model for Dutch agriculture and put other goals at the centre, not only in order to achieve those goals that are close to my heart, but also in order to protect farmers from the cold wind that is blowing in international world production. It is significant that one third of the EU budget was spent on supporting farmers. In recent decades, of course, that was even higher. It is good to keep doing that, but look at what needs to be done in our landscape and in our nature. We must choose a more modest role, because otherwise the result will be that we will see nature, with its advantages and gene bank, even more calving. There's not so much left of it already. Animal welfare and public health are still under pressure. Above all, and this should be at the heart of my critical colleagues, people in the farming sector will have a very difficult financial future and will have to get rid of their animals because they need to intensify even further. The Minister spoke very nicely about this in the newspaper this morning. It is therefore important to quickly implement the transition towards an agriculture that has a future in the Netherlands. Fortunately, we already have this in mind, namely circular agriculture. Above all, it is about how we can make this context so that this circular farming can flourish quickly and we can offer farmers an attractive future, in which they can farmers, including nature, organic and biodynamically, and in which it becomes the norm. That's a nice little bridge to the Fertilizers Act. The minister told me that she made her maiden speech as minister at the fertilizer file. That's what she said in the Lower House. So I totally assumed that it was. It's a pretty technical law. He knows a number of very good things. He's strengthening the enforcement trail. There are clear sectoral ceilings. There is the generic discount instrument when the total ceiling is exceeded. At the same time, we also see that the cabinet has been dragging its feet to present this. Only a month before the deadline of the European Union has it submitted this to us. Frankly, this law could have been here a year and a half ago. I would like to ask questions about three themes, the derogatory model as a standard for livestock farming in the Netherlands, the generic discount, and the Fertilisers Act and the long-term perspective. Mr. Chairman. We see a cabinet that still assumes that the derogation, i.e. the deviation from the European standard, is an integral part of the business model of the Dutch livestock sector. The reality is that this is not a given at all; it is a political choice. It is a choice to focus on an exceptional position within the European Union and then to use it as a standard in the Netherlands. That is a choice to sit on the limits of the permissible level and then take great risks that the permissible level is exceeded. In order to mitigate these risks, farmers are then stuck with a huge administration and accountability cycle, in order to keep everything a little manageable. We also look at the implementation practice in this house. That is why I am well aware of the consequences for daily life. One of the reasons for this exception is that the livestock sector has so much administration, but it is more important that it becomes a huge financial risk to farming. After all, if the sector ceilings are exceeded, ceilings that the individual farmer has no control over, individual farmers will have to pay. A different choice can also be made here, by developing regulations that allow Dutch farmers to simply produce on or under the European standard. Fortunately, we automatically record more phosphates than we do in the Netherlands. So we won't get into any more trouble, because then we will have safe buffers in relation to European standards. These buffers are important, because they make emergency, urgent or exceptional legislation superfluous. As a result, farmers will be more resilient if the standards are again exceeded. So I would like to make it clear that the derogation model is not automatic and that we really need to consider looking at it differently. I would also like to comment on this. From an ecological and not least empathic point of view towards farmers, we would ask the Minister, in the run-up to the seventh nitrate package, to develop policy options based on both phasing out and ending the derogation, so that the farmer also has the opportunity to get close to his original profession, and not only to keep his head above water if he is committed to scaling up, intensifying or technologizing. I'd like a response. Then the generic discount. As GroenLinks, we find it amazing to always have to look at the fact that parties who say they are committed to the interests of farmers have no difficulty in creating collective risks by working on the border and laying down the costs for individual farmers through laws and regulations. We believe that this is also the case here. So it's no wonder farmers get frustrated. What do farmers really care that politics in the Netherlands lets them produce as a collective beyond the limits of what is ecologically and safety-relatedly possible? As a result, individual farmers are constantly confronted with far-reaching emergency measures. You wonder when, as GroenLinks, we will find the so-called farmers' party on our side to develop a system of standards that strengthens nature's resilience and thus provides a robust and stable system for the agricultural sector. A system that is so robust that a few dry summers does not immediately pose a threat of a generic discount, as some colleagues in the House of Representatives feared. Anyway, we're not there yet. Until then, GroenLinks is very pleased that the Minister has introduced a mandatory instrument into this law to ensure that water quality and natural values do not deteriorate further. Please have some clarity about the generic discount and the following questions. GroenLinks wants to prevent us from being burdened with political considerations about instruments in crisis situations. Once the amendment has been adopted, this seems to be happening again here. That leaves nature organisations and farmers in uncertainty for months, and that seems very undesirable to us. What does it mean, for example, that other measures are first implemented? At what point will they be announced? If I understand correctly, it is only six months after the overrun that we find that there has been an overrun. What time are we gonna get to work? Is that, as the answer suggests, even before the imminent overrun, at the time of, or is that the year after? How long in advance is a threatening overrun serious enough to use or announce that generic discount? At what point will the implementation of this generic discount follow exactly? Can individual farmers have predecessors who have already asked them to take steps themselves to stay out of the picture at that generic discount? Can we assume that, at the moment when there are imminent overruns, the Minister is pulling everything out of the box to prevent an overrun and that the only thing that could happen is a generic discount if there is actually an overrun? We like to get answers to these questions. Finally, long-term policy. In the introductory meeting with the Minister, which was very pleasant, we took a little longer to consider the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture has long been occupied by various crises. This is a pity, because a resilient agricultural sector, but also the development of nature, is very much in the interest of stability and peace in the department. That would arise with a nice multi-annual perspective. This commodity law, too, shows that, despite a long preparation, today, on Monday afternoons and not Tuesdays, we are mainly concerned with preventing a crisis because we cannot apply for the derogation in time. All this raises the question, even the need, of asking what is needed to bring the Ministry's focus, and especially of this minister, back to the realization of the long-term perspective, which is promising in the short term. Are you able to divide the human power and attention between solving short-term problems and long-term realisation in your ministry? And can you guarantee that you can continue to give priority to the realization of the agricultural vision? As far as we're concerned, that's what he has. If not, what are you going to do to ensure that you can focus on long-term policy within one, two months? We all know that the long-term perspective of circular agriculture is the most important solution for both nature and farmers. Although the nitrogen crisis is important, the design of a good European agricultural policy is also important. We need our vision for that, too. These were my questions and my comments, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues for not interrupting me this time. I really enjoyed that. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u64	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied political science at the University of Amsterdam, where you specialised in international relations. After graduation, you joined the Utrecht Natural and Environmental Federation, of which you became Deputy Director in 2001. In 2009, you joined the Fietsersbond, where you are still employed ten years later. You started out as a team chief of communications and became Deputy Director within the year. Since 2015, you have been the director of the Cyclists Association. And a good one, because I've even recently been a member of the Cycling Association thanks to your firm perseverance. Completely voluntary, by the way. As a result of your position, you are also director of the Fietsersbond Foundation, Treasurer of Bicycle Platform and until a year ago you were chairman of the Dutch Cycling Embassy. The Algemeen Dagblad once called you "bike commuters and weekend cyclist." Professionally and privately, the man-driven two-wheeler occupies a great place in your life. As director of the Fietsersbond, you discussed in the same newspaper the criticism that sometimes exists on cyclists, especially in the big city. You said, and I quote: 'Too often cyclists are spoken as if they are a problem, while they are providing the solution. Cycling is good for air quality. Suppose all those cyclists would get in the car now, then cities would be immediately unlivable." In addition to cycling, you are involved in renewable energy projects. For example, you were chairman of energy cooperative Energy-U in Utrecht and a member of the board of the national association of citizens and cooperative self-producer for renewable energy. Last year you were a new entry into the Sustainable Top 100 of daily Trouw. Of course, those kind of lists are important. In the interview that took place on this occasion, you said, and I quote again, "Change policy takes a long time." With your membership of the GroenLinks First Chamber, you are now taking a new path to try to change policy from a political point of view. Your contribution to this debate today is a new step, on another route, but with the same aim in mind. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments for a moment of congratulations. I would ask Mr Van Pareren and Mrs Kluit to stand up for the rostrum so that all the other colleagues can congratulate you, and I congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u65	I give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an issue, the amendment of the Fertilisers Act, which is part of the much greater problem of protecting the climate and the environment. The urgency of this problem is high. That is why we are disappointed by the poor results of the Madrid climate conference. The limited progress that has been made there does not mean that we should leave it at that. On the contrary. The European Union has formulated ambitious plans for a Green Deal. The PvdA welcomes this ambition and hopes that the government will support this ambition and try to integrate as many people as possible in a socially just way into the various pathways that are already underway and will be launched in order to be able to pass this world on responsibly to our children and grandchildren. In the meantime, where it can, we must take the necessary steps. Tomorrow we will be discussing an important aspect of this problem: the Emergency Law on nitrogen. Today we are talking about the Nitrates Directive. It is essential for the protection of the environment, water and biodiversity. That is why the implementation of the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme is of great importance. The PvdA Group, like other political groups, has asked questions about this and we thank the government for its response. Nevertheless, a few questions remained. The first concerns the system of derogation in general. Mrs Kluit has already made the necessary comments. In answering questions from this Chamber, the government confirms that a general rethink of manure policy is necessary and that the contours of a future manure policy will be established next spring. Both in the explanatory memorandum and in the note accompanying the report, the government stresses that the proposals for amending the Fertilisers Act now before us are necessary for a new derogation to be granted to the European Commission. The adoption of these proposals before 1 January is therefore also important. Is it not strange, then, that, now that the Seventh Programme of Action is under preparation, we are still taking the extended derogation as a matter of course? Derogation means derogations from the Nitrates Directive. Would it not be desirable for a future fertilizer policy to phase out recourse to a derogation or at least to keep it to a minimum, that Dutch fertilisers policy should, in future, comply virtually without any derogation with the requirements of the Nitrate Directive? Then the risk that the Netherlands will not live up to the agreements with Europe will also decrease, because anyone who keeps going down the cliff will fall in. That change will not be possible overnight. A sudden cessation of the derogation would cost many farms the head, and we do not want that. But would it not be better if, in the future, no or as small a derogation as possible were eventually used, but, as Mrs Kluit said, buffers were built? Would it not be better if the outlines of the future manure policy, which will be adopted next spring, were to set the final target of a minimum derogation and a first step in this direction? Are these future policy contours also concerned with further strengthening adequate enforcement and, consequently, the fight against fraud in the treatment of manure? Mrs Teunissen has already mentioned this. A second theme follows on from this and concerns the size of livestock. Given the wider environmental problems that are currently taking place, we do not escape to reduce the size of livestock in the Netherlands. Does the government agree? Fertiliser production is directly related to this. In response to one of our questions, the government states that this bill does not provide for an accelerated reduction in manure production by increasing the rate of skimming on the transfer of production rights. But that was not an answer to the question. The question was whether it would not be appropriate to consider gradually increasing the percentage of skimming in the transfer of animal and phosphate rights in order to accelerate the reduction of manure production, speed up the recovery of nature and develop the agricultural sector towards this more sustainable circular agriculture. The answer was that the bill does not provide for this. But that's not really an answer to the question. That is the presentation of a state of affairs, but not an answer to the question about desirable and necessary future developments. That is why I ask the government to answer this question. I would like to do the same with regard to whether it is better to make the temporary 20% reduction in the sale of phosphate rights permanent. It is precisely in the light of the urgency of protecting climate and the environment that you should consider, according to the Labour Party. The reply in the note to the report is that this percentage is temporary and will be adjusted to 10% two weeks after the number of phosphate duties has been brought under the sectoral phosphate ceiling. Yes, that is the situation now, but our question was: 'We are asking again whether it is better to make the 20% percentage permanent so that farmers also know where they stand and the trade in phosphate rights is not slowing down at the moment, pending a possible return to a lower percentage.' Another question has to do with the right of ownership. The government states that a possible generic reduction in phosphate law is an ultimum remedium that we agree with the government and that if this would play a fair balance should be made between purpose and means, whatever we agree with. But is such a reduction in phosphate law by a generic discount not a withdrawal of ownership within the meaning of Article 1 of the first Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights? If that is not the case, as the Supreme Court finds, does the government share the view of the PvdA Group that such compensation can only be obtained if there is a compelling legal basis for it? The phosphate rights system was introduced during the Rutte II cabinet. Since its introduction, there has been a large trade in phosphate rights. Many billions of euros are involved. Can the government give a precise indication of the current value of the total phosphate duty and how much is on average per holding?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u67	I would like to ask Mr Koole the following. You indicated earlier in your speech that you advocate a social and just approach. Further on, I hear there's a lot of punishment in your approach. What I want to say to you, in particular, is that there is a huge industry that we are talking about whose products are in great demand worldwide. More than EUR 50 billion is exported by our farmers, by our farmers, by our farmers or by what you want to call them. How do you see that? It would be a huge blow if you said: it has to be different and we are going to reduce, reduce, reduce. How do you imagine that future image?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u68	Thank you, but would you like to speak through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u69	Social justice. There is a need for change in several areas. In terms of climate policy and fertiliser policy, change is needed, given the great problem of protecting nature and the environment and the problem of the ever smaller biodiversity over a long series of years. So measures must be taken, and that affects people. That kind of transition process needs to be well supervised, and that must be done socially justly. This also affects an important sector for the Netherlands in this case. In order to do this properly and to offer farmers a perspective by turning to sustainable agriculture, you must be prepared to take the best possible measures as a government so that we know what is going on in the longer term. I do not think you can escape the fact that, in addition to whatever innovative measure you introduce, the livestock as a whole in this relatively small Netherlands will have to be reduced. We're convinced of that. Otherwise, we will not solve the other issues of protection of the environment, water and biodiversity. So there will have to be intervention. This is also happening in other areas. This kind of intervention will always have to be based on the belief that, even if the sector is still so important, and it is certainly important that the people who touch it know where they stand. It must be done in a socially just way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u70	I need to practice, Mr. Chairman, how to speak through you. I'm gonna try again now, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Koolen, you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u71	Read it again, tomorrow. It's gonna be okay for tomorrow. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. I'm really curious right now. It now seems that sustainability means reducing. So the future of sustainability means: a smaller economy, small livestock, reduced activity. Mr. Chairman. I'm curious how Mr Koole looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u73	Very good. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u74	This sustainability does not in all respects mean a reduction. There will also be new branches. There will be a growing sustainable agriculture, where innovation can indeed take place. But the conviction of the Labour Party is that this will not be enough to reduce completely the problems that have arisen, for example with manure, to the level covered by this Nitrate Directive. In addition to all the other things that can also grow, such as innovation and other techniques, you will not escape to find that the size of the livestock, the huge amount of animals that are kept in the Netherlands, will have to be reduced if you want to do something about the overall problem. No, we're very much in favour of sustainability. It doesn't always mean reducing. It means, on the contrary, that you have to move in an innovative direction, towards sustainable agriculture. But it does mean that you have to face it, very real, that it can't be done as it is. This solution includes a reduction in livestock. That is why I asked the Minister whether the government shares that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u75	Mr. Van Pareren has a short third and final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u76	It's not a question, it's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u77	Thank you. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u78	I was at the phosphate rights system. This was introduced during the Rutte II cabinet. Since the introduction, I have said, there has been a great deal of trade. What exactly is the total amount of money associated with it? How much is the average value per company? In answering the questions, the government says: "Or production rights can be counted among the abilities of individual farmers, depends on their situation. In the case of cessation of business or intensification of the holding being exercised, production rights may be sold." Does this mean, I ask the government, that a farmer who obtained free access to a number of rights at the time of the introduction of the phosphate system, who is able to pay for his own benefit when selling his holding? According to the Grant Scheme for the rehabilitation of pig farms of 25 November young people, the pig rights which a pig farmer is required to surrender are reimbursed on a market-based basis. Does this mean that this compensation does not take into account at all the possibility that the pig farmer concerned may have been granted the whole or part of his rights free of charge upon the introduction of the phosphate rights system? We look forward to answering our questions with interest, but I use my last sentence to congratulate Mr Van Pareren and Mrs Kluit on their maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u79	Thank you, Mr. Koolen. I call Mrs Huizinga, but first Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u80	I listened with interest to Mr Koole's speech. He always talks about sustainable agriculture, but what does Mr Koole mean by "sustainable agriculture"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u81	There are many definitions of sustainable agriculture. It is an agriculture that can sustain itself without having to burden the environment more and more, with the emission of phosphates, for example, in such a way that in the long term it is no longer manageable. It must be a self-sufficient system, a circular agriculture, as the Minister himself calls it. That's what I mean by "sustainable."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u82	But in fact, we already do, don't we? Phosphates and nitrates and everything are just recorded, right? Those are the substances we need that animals need to grow, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u83	Mr. Koole, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u84	Mr Van Pareren also mentioned it. Of course there are substances that we need, but of some substances you can have too many. We all need water, but if you're forced to drink four liters in a row, it'll kill you. And if there's a flood, people can drown. That doesn't mean you don't need water, but too much is too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u85	Mrs Faber, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u86	But can you call me someone who hasn't gotten well from too much nitrogen or too much phosphate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u87	The whole biodiversity has fallen dramatically. For a lot of animals it is true that they have become more than not well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u88	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u89	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Kluit and Mr Van Pareren once again on their beautiful maiden speeches. A little strange term for a man, "maiden speech." But that's what it's called. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the amendment of the Fertilisers Act. The Minister's explanatory statement shows that this legislative amendment is necessary for an extension of the European Commission's derogation decision. As early as 2017, the European Commission set as a condition for derogation that the national manure production ceiling should be laid down in national legislation. In addition to the national manure production ceiling, the government laid down three sectoral ceilings. In the Lower House this law has been amended in particular on the issue of the generic discount. Where the Minister wants to use a generic discount in the extreme, ultimum remedium, it has now become: in the extreme. The generic discount instrument is included in the law because of the conditions set by the European Commission for derogation. The amended law still meets the conditions of the European Commission, as requested by the members of the Christian Union Group. Then I have one more question. What is the Minister's view of the possibility of generic discounts, given that at least this year the Netherlands appears to be well below the national ceiling? Is the latter a trend, or is it occasional? Finally, Mr President. The members of the Christian Union Group would like to ask the Minister what they expect, looking to the future, of the seventh action programme that is now under way. Does it think that this will lead to important changes to the Fertilisers Act? Does she think that we still need a derogation in the future? That is in line with Mrs Kluit's and Mr Koole's questions. I will certainly propose to my group that we vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u91	Thank you, Mr President. If you'll allow me, two brief comments in advance. Congratulations to Mrs Kluit and Mr Van Pareren, whose maiden speech as a Provincial State Member I missed as deputy except one; it would have been twice in one year. Congratulations. The second point in advance is that this morning, at 12:19 p.m., we found in our mail routing a letter from the Minister, also on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, stating that questions from a number of colleagues about the CDM advice Analysis fines in the event of a violation of the Fertilisers Act could not be answered at the moment. That is a pity, because that does touch on a crucial point in the implementation of the measures that are currently being implemented. I am making my contribution more than an hour and a half in advance, so a significant part of my contribution will be about monitoring and enforcement, because that is the basis for the implementation of legislation. Mr. Chairman. The problems with nitrate and phosphate in our soil and surface water are also of great concern to SP. In practice, we see that the excess of nitrate causes problems with water quality and problems in nature. This cannot be eliminated by referring only to dry summers. There's more to it than that. This calls for an active approach and cooperation of all relevant authorities and services responsible for monitoring and enforcement. Mr. Chairman. It is a cold, factual determination, but phosphate and nitrogen production are currently below sectoral and national ceilings. The measures to make this possible have affected people, especially in dairy farming, but it was not for nothing. That's a lousy consolation. That might make the apple a little less acidic. We can see that we are complying with the conditions for derogation. That is also the least we should do with each other, because, of course, we should just get rid of it. I have already announced that the question raised by each measure is that of monitoring and enforcement. Does the Minister have the impression that all parties are using sufficient people and resources to do so? Is there sufficient clarity for all parties in the process? Where can we do better? For example, are good examples sufficiently shared? Mr. Chairman. There are a number of considerations to intervene in production rights if sector ceilings are to be exceeded. Colleagues have already said a lot about it. In the light of the debate that we are going to have tomorrow, I would like to ask the Minister to consider the option of pre-adapting for production efficiency, also in view of the risk of exceeding phosphate and nitrogen ceilings within existing production rights. How does the Minister see the consistency with the emergency nitrogen law that we are discussing tomorrow? Maybe she can say something about that already? Then I have a number of questions about the system of supervision and enforcement. As I said, that is the basis of the implementation of legislation. I am not impressed by the level of fines as absolute figures without knowing whether the fines are high enough to deprive the benefit obtained, and then there is still a strong punitive share left. Unfortunately, I have to say that I speak from experience. On the bright side, let me add. That punitive part must therefore still be high enough to bring about a change in behaviour, because that is what this is about. Otherwise, it'll be probability. Can the Minister indicate whether the strategy of sanctions is aimed at the double approach of deprivation and punishment? What about the high fines the Minister referred to in the Lower House and in the written reply to the Upper Chamber? Is that how they were determined from this point of view? Then there's the chance. The chance of getting caught is crucial. Can the Minister say anything about that? Is the chance of getting caught high enough to produce a deterrent effect? Is the supervisory capacity in order, or should there be additional investment in it? Consistent monitoring and consistent enforcement can lead to major environmental gains, I would like to give the Minister. Does she agree with me? And if so, is that in order now? Does the Minister share my view that the generic nature of the reduction in production rights, which colleagues have already talked about, should lead to a cultural change? In fact, it could lead to mutual contact. The generic character means that you may address your colleague earlier and say: I am suffering from what you are doing and I do not want to, because that is what I am going to suffer as well. Ultimately, of course, individual companies in the sector themselves are responsible for their own actions and for complying with laws and regulations that apply to them. I'd like to get a response on this point. If the Minister agrees with me on this point, I would ask why she has embraced amendments that have a dampening effect on the discounts and thus also on the achievement of this cultural change. I really don't get it. Finally, I would like to point out the need to intervene in good time in the event of exceedances. Lick-on-piece works. That's a fact. When there is too much time between the offence and the penalty, the effect fades and is felt to be unjust. Two more closing sentences, Mr. Chairman. In that light, I was surprised that the Minister in the House of Representatives indicated that her approach to exceedance and a trend of further overrun was: "Dear people, now pay attention, because there is still some work to be done." Is that really the method? Does the Minister think that this is impressed, that this solves the problems and that this leads to a structural solution? With such an approach, you don't ban conscious exceedances and in particular you don't help change the corporate culture either. Mr. Chairman. I await the Minister's reply before I advise my group on our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Then Mr Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about changing the Fertilisers Act. All the points I am going to mention have already been mentioned by predecessors. I won't repeat the names over and over again. However, the following matters are on the agenda. This Sixth Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive contains a number of measures to safeguard the derogation by 2020 and 2021. A major pain in this operation is the generic measure, which has been mentioned several times. The CBS says that this may not be so bad, but I still ask the Minister: do you still want to respond to the ultimate remedy, if other measures will not be effective? As far as I'm concerned, the good guys shouldn't take it out on the bad guys. That is an important principle. I'm also concerned about enforcement. Is the NVWA sufficiently equipped to do this? Is the chance of getting caught, which has just been mentioned, big enough? Otherwise, it's not gonna help. Mr. Chairman. In the long term, I think we should abolish the derogation. It's been mentioned before. I am therefore looking forward to the Seventh Action Programme, which is currently under way. I look forward to a fundamental rethink of the manure policy that is being implemented in its entirety. Both the construction sector and agriculture, as well as environmental organisations and even European policies are involved. I think it would be a good idea to do this rethink carefully. Right now, I support this law, that sixth action. It gives certainty to farmers for the coming period, but the perspective is that we have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u94	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Also on behalf of my group, of course, congratulations to Mrs Kluit and to Mr Van Pareren for their maiden speeches. I look forward to nice exchanges of views. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen balance is about extremes. In this debate on the amendment of the Fertilisers Act to allow implementation of the Sixth Action Programme on the Nitrates Directive 2018-2021, we are talking about the maximum amount of 170 kilograms of nitrogen from manure per hectare per year. Tomorrow we are talking about the Emergency Act on nitrogen. Then we deliberate over deposition increases that are higher or lower than 0.005 moles per hectare. This is about the nitrogen produced by a fraction of manure production per day, that of one goose. That difference is pretty intense. An important question: who put us into this calculation? Anyway, we have to deal with it, because the European Commission can grant us a derogation if a number of conditions are met. This amendment concerns the phosphate use standard, a refinement of the current classification and the introduction and maintenance of sector ceilings for manure production. Mr. Chairman. The fraction of the SGP would like clarification on the forecast of expected manure production in relation to nitrogen and phosphate. In addition, the following things play a role. One: there is a reform scheme for pig farming, which takes over production rights. Two: with regard to the problem of nitrogen, measures to reduce nitrogen will be taken in the feed track. Three: as far as phosphate is concerned, the national phosphate ceiling is well below. In this light, my group has asked for an assessment of the expected manure production in the coming years. Can this assessment still be made? The Minister's answer to this question was rather vague. The Minister states: "In the third quarterly report of the CBS of November 2019, the forecast is that phosphate and nitrogen production in all livestock sectors will remain below the ceilings'. That is very nice in itself, but that answer does not provide an insight into the forecast of the expected manure production for 2020 and beyond. This is important because the SGP group would like to know whether the assumption is correct that there is a very low chance that national ceilings will be exceeded. The SGP has another point of attention. The options for generic reductions in pig and poultry farming are based on recital 14 of the current derogating Decision. It states that the Netherlands regulates that the achievement of the national ceilings can be opposed to individual farmers. Well, the derogation decision will expire in a few weeks' time. Then this law goes into it, too. At the same time, derogation can be perfectly justified according to the objective standards of the nitrates directive. The water quality of derogation farms has little to do with the national manure ceilings. We are not looking at what we are doing about manure processing and manure exports. However, strict enforcement of national ceilings would be necessary in order not to jeopardise water quality in derogation companies. I find this hard to follow. There seems to be a large, invisible hand that we in the First Chamber don't have that much view of. What exactly is behind that? Can the Minister give us a little more insight and explanation? The Minister seems to be focusing on the sector ceilings. According to the current derogating decision, these are national ceilings. I ask the Minister, should other routes not be possible, to consider a generic discount at sector level only if the national ceilings are exceeded. A new generic discount, in any sector, gnaws at the legal certainty of entrepreneurs and nourishes mistrust. I would say that we must avoid this at all times. Generic is kind of generic. It is important for businessmen's sense of justice that colleagues who kept more animals than allowed do not get away with it. In short, if you already want to cut something short, start with those who keep more animals than allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u96	I understand that you mean, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u97	That Mr Schalk means, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u98	...that it's unfair to introduce a generic discount? If people can see him coming from miles away, they can prepare for it. Then it wouldn't have to feel like surprise or injustice. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u99	I think Mrs Kluit is touching on an interesting point. The problem now is that a number of people feel the following at a generic discount. "I've done my best to keep me within the standards; the neighbor does things differently, but everyone is punished." Some of them may have invested a great deal in keeping to these standards properly. My question to the Minister is therefore whether this can be done more carefully and precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u100	So it's actually the same question I asked. Can you, as a company, do all kinds of things that contribute to lower emissions, be spared from the generic discount? Then the problem is not the generic discount, but the way it is applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u101	Yes. With Mrs Kluit, of course, I was not allowed to interrupt, otherwise perhaps I would have asked for clarification, why I could ask now. I'm not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. Don't worry. I think we agree at the moment when someone simply neatly meets the standards and may have made huge investments for that. Then it's very acidic when something generic is arranged that more or less punishes everyone. Then all you get is extra distrust and more farmers on the Malieveld. It may also be that in the future we will run into the problem much wider and that you will spend months in advance... Then it is also really the subject of consultation with the sector, rather than simply introducing a generic discount somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u102	Mrs. Kluit, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u103	Then can you say something more? It seems to me that it is very difficult to start negotiating on what needs to be done when there is an overrun. I think that is the uncertainty that farmers have incredibly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u104	Mr. Schalk, one short answer. Then I will go to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u105	I agree. It's also very complicated. I wouldn't know exactly how to fix it right now. I would like to ask the Minister whether we can prevent us from entering the generic trap very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u106	Mr Schalk has a bit of a flop with the sector on one side and the individual on the other. Does he agree with me that if the sector feels jointly responsible, the members of the sector should appeal to each other, rather than to the public authorities? I just argued that. You gave the example of the one who's doing well and not his neighbor. Shouldn't they be speaking to each other? Is it not up to the sector itself to ensure self-cleaning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u107	That is a very nice recommendation from Mr Janssen, I would say. If we find that someone in the sector is simply choking it up for the others, to use that peasant word, then he must be addressed to it by someone else in that sector. People who exceed laws and standards should be called upon to do so as far as the SGP group is concerned. Let that be perfectly clear. This afternoon there has also been a very short debate about people who fraud. Maybe I need to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u108	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u109	I can be very brief and crystal clear about people who commit fraud: they need to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u110	Mr. Janssen, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u111	My second and final question is whether Mr Schalk agrees with me that it is primarily the responsibility of the sector to do it itself, before individuals look at the government again to intervene with the neighbour, while they can discuss it with the neighbour themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u112	I would say immediately: yes. I'm just not a farmer and I don't have a neighbor who doesn't have to. So I'm not exactly sure that's very easy to do. In general, I say: let us also appeal to farmers to take responsibility together for what is being done nationally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u113	I suggest that we let Mr Schalk finish his term, because we need to get to the next debate in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u114	That is half a sentence, Mr President, namely: does the Minister take that into account? But then she won't remember which question I asked. I said: it is important for the sense of justice of entrepreneurs that colleagues who kept more animals than allowed should not get away with it. In short, if you want to cut something short, start with those who keep more animals than allowed according to their permit or available rights. Does the Minister take that into account? Then the question of Mr. Pijlman was answered immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u115	That's very nice. Van Pareren one last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u116	I hear from you throughout the debate, but also from the questioners, something of a kind of collective punishment for agriculture; if one does not do it right, then ultimately the whole group should be punished. That gives me extremely creepy feelings. I don't want the Netherlands to be like that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u117	Thank you for this interruption by Mr Van Pareren, because that is exactly why I am asking the Minister whether it is possible to look at the fact that we are not walking so quickly into the trap of the generic discount. And here comes Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u118	Mr Pijlman only gets the floor one more time, because we have to go to another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u119	Oh. My question is: isn't this already included in the law, through the House of Representatives, that before there is a generic discount, there will be all kinds of other measures, so that an individual isn't punished quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u120	There is indeed a risk that we will do the same as in the House of Representatives. We shouldn't do that here. My question to the government is very simple: look at it as closely as possible, and if that is already settled, I am very grateful for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u121	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate. We'll continue this tonight after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-4.u122	I'm suspending the meeting briefly, pending the Secretary of State for Defence.
