ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u1	I welcome everyone, first of all the people in the public gallery: you are going to be calm, I understand. I hope we can have a nice debate. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk as the first speaker. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Millions of people in the Netherlands are threatened with discounts. This means an attack on the wallet: of pensioners directly, but also of all workers later, when they retire. Discounts are madness. Madness, if you have a pension fund of around 1,500 billion and make an average return in the past 30 years at 7%. And yes, I know the lectures of this minister, who says: if you have zero interest, you must now have money in cash for 60 years from now. How insane is that! Just before the holiday, we received the happy message at least a large part of the Chamber was happy about a pension agreement. It said that a purchasing power pension was promised: more indexing and less chance of discounts. How does the Minister feel about that promise? Is he still happy with the deal? Is he going to live up to that purchasing power pension? Is the Minister prepared to intervene so that discounts are not necessary? You know the plea of 50PLUS. We really think that the most simple method is: adjust the calculation rate. 2% calculus interest and we're out of trouble. Is the Minister ready now? Is he prepared to adjust the accounting rate? Until now, we have never been able to count on a majority in this Chamber. That's why you shouldn't stop thinking, especially when those discounts threaten. We have an arithmetical example, which I would like to give to the Minister later, of an actuaries showing that, for example, 90% coverage could be reduced to 19% in 2021. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is true, because it should not be possible. That is why we have given thought to the question: should we continue with low capital cover, or should we take another step? Should we perhaps move on to a hybrid payoff system with the largest reserve in the pot of the whole world? Europe would kill for a pay-as-you-go system with twice the gross domestic product as a pension reserve. We think it is ridiculous, I say it once more: insane to cut short. We support the questions put by Mr Omtzigt of the CDA. We, too, would like an investigation to be carried out. An investigation by the Central Planning Bureau. But we do want that investigation soon. And as a chamber, we want to influence what's being investigated. I will finish with: at the moment it is scandalous, with so much money in cash, to have to cut short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Smeulders is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mrs Van Brenn spoke on behalf of 50PLUS in favour of a pay-as-you-go system with a large reserve. Could Mrs Van Brenn make it clear what that means for young people? Maybe I'm a little worried about that. But maybe 50PLUS can take those concerns away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u5	We are certainly always open to the interests of our children and grandchildren. I have something for the colleagues, as a gift, also because I might have seen such a question coming. In fact, the two of us are not to blame, because we haven't been in the Chamber that long. But there is a former Director of Social Affairs, Mr Pierik, who has made a nice alternative to the pension system. He has sent this to the minister's predecessor and to the ESC, and I shall give it to the minister in such a way that he can also see it with an average return of 0.5% over 50 years with an index of 1.75 and a capital of about 1,400 billion. That, dear people, would still be sustainable after 2065, if all 68-plussers died as well. The pot does not decrease and only continues to grow, because also the yields continue. So it's basically a pay-as-you-go system, but because you have that reserve, you can end up there. If it's all right with you, Mr. Chairman, I have this piece for the Minister. In that he can see that the reductions go towards 19% through the pension agreement. If not, it would be 15%, but that is still a lot. This other piece, entitled Towards an alternative to the pension system, will have all colleagues somewhere in their archives, but it is now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr President, thank you very much. Today we are discussing the threat of reductions in pensions. It's an unprecedented shame that we have to talk about this today. Because if this minister really cared about the pension interests of millions of Dutch people, he would have sent a letter to the Chamber prior to this debate, in which he would have announced measures. He would have taken the concerns of millions of Dutch people seriously. Then he would have told the committee of PvdA'er Dijsselbloem, which ensures that discounts come sooner and get even bigger, that they could get it back and forth. And he would put DNB back in their loft with their far too low calculus rate. Until here and no further, enough is enough. We are not going to have discounts after years of retirement, with some EUR 1,500 billion in cash. The fact that there has been virtually no indexing for ten years is already unsellable, let alone that there is a need to shorten it. He would then, as the PVV has been calling for almost ten years, adjust the calculation rate. Increase him by at least 1% to indeed that 2%, so that those pension discounts would go away for millions of Dutch people. Because that is at the heart of the problem: the rate of calculation is absurdly low and unrealistic. This is because the European Central Bank has been providing extremely low interest rates for many years, and that fact has led to a rapid fall in the Dutch interest rate, which makes pension funds unnecessarily poor. As a result, discounts are threatening and there is less risk of building up for future pensionaries. Mr. Chairman. This has to stop. The Minister must no longer be held hostage by the way in which the ECB is disrupting things. But that requires decisive action, a trait that this minister is strange. For the umpteenth time, I call on the Minister to finally acknowledge the great problem of extremely low interest rates. The Netherlands has the lowest calculation rate in the euro area. That's absurd. Adjust this! In the short term, at least as long as the ECB continues to apply its absurd policy, ensure that the calculation rate increases by at least 1%. And why? This will save some 12% of coverage, and that will ensure that many pension funds that now have to cut on paper do not have to do so anymore. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is time for this minister to wake up and stop holding a risk-free interest rate for calculating the liabilities. It must ensure a realistic calculation rate, based on real growth, which reflects investment returns. Then the pension funds get air again and the discounts can be off the table. This is the time to put this into practice, because we cannot continue to put all this into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are special times. A few months ago, just before the recess, we were happy here, happy that after all these years we had succeeded in concluding a pension agreement. We welcomed the broad support in the Chamber, from left to right, and the broad support in civil society, from trade unions to employers' organisations. And now, only a few months later, we have to conclude that that original enthusiasm is a bit dull. That is also because we are in a very special situation of extremely low, perhaps even in the long term, we do not know what negative calculation rules are. This simply affects our pension system. I am therefore very curious to hear the reaction of the cabinet when we are having this debate a year ago, but it is now more topical than ever. How does the cabinet view this development over the past few months in relation to that pension agreement that has been concluded? Because in that pension agreement, a number of goals have been agreed. These goals are also the reasons why GroenLinks, like the PvdA, has decided to support the pension agreement. It is about collectivity, about solidarity, but it is also about preventing unnecessary discounts. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet views that. Does the cabinet believe that it is possible to avoid unnecessary reductions within what was agreed in the pension agreement? Is the cabinet prepared to work out scenarios, for example, how this can be done? GroenLinks is seriously concerned about the discounts that are coming. If we want a new pension system, it will have a lot of consequences for many people. And if you have to make huge discounts from one day to the next, that's bad for the support. I am therefore very curious to see what the cabinet plans are, or at least what the cabinet sees as the possibility of preventing these reductions, together with social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u10	Does GroenLinks make the support for the cabinet, for this minister and for the pension agreement depend on removing those unnecessary discounts that threaten millions of pensioners? In other words, do you withdraw your support for the pension agreement if these discounts continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u11	The picture I get of this is that there is some kind of contradiction between the pension agreement on the one hand and unnecessary discounts on the other. I have just indicated that in the pension agreement a number of goals have been agreed that we welcome. One of these goals is: no unnecessary discounts. So that's what I'm gonna hold the cabinet to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u12	In the pension agreement, it was not agreed that there would be another interest rate, which now threatens these discounts. This is missing from the pension agreement, as is a whole bunch of other things that are lacking in it. You've agreed to it. Do you accept that pensions will soon be reduced on the basis of the coverage rate of 31 December of this year, yes or no? If the answer to that question is no and you do not accept it, will you withdraw the support for the pension agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u13	I have just said that the last few months have been quite special in the financial markets, but also that their impact on pension funds is considerable. All MPs received a letter from the Pension Federation early this week. I say quite honestly: I don't usually find those letters from the Pension Federation very exciting, although I'm afraid to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u14	Answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u15	I'm going to answer your question. Most of the time, not all pension funds agree, but all of the funds now give to..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If pension funds indicate that this is the situation, then I think we should all look very, very seriously at it. I call on the cabinet to do so today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u16	And the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u17	That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u18	I don't want to hear if you're withdrawing your support or not. We had an initiative with GroenLinks that we were pleased with, to get those discounts off the table up to 100%, and that is what we have been promised. But now it's even worse. We share the aims of preventing unnecessary discounts, but perhaps this Minister says: those discounts are not so unnecessary at all, because we have heard someone in Buitenhof say that is fine; especially start cutting short! So if this minister does not say that it is unnecessary and is not going to take everything out of the box to prevent that, can we count on GroenLinks in that we, with the entire opposition, are going to get rid of those discounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u19	I totally understand the question. Together with 50PLUS we have raised very nicely to avoid discounts because we think that is super important. Since then, we have also supported a pension agreement, concluded by parties from civil society and the cabinet, which states that we do not want unnecessary reductions. I am here today on behalf of my group. I hope that I will make it clear to everyone who listens here or at home that we do not want unnecessary discounts and that we will stick to them in the Cabinet. I also ask the Cabinet to work out scenarios in the very short term to see what the possibilities are for avoiding unnecessary discounts. On that basis, we must ultimately decide what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u20	I understand that GroenLinks will at least want us to have clarity about whether we are going to offer them a solution well before the end of this year. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u21	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u22	Whatever you think of the new pension agreement, we think it sucks, because it doesn't do anything to prevent those discounts. It also means that people have to work longer. As far as we are concerned, it is a dramatic agreement. That's proven again today. But if you support it, there is only one quick way that helps, works and many experts agree on it. That's adjusting that unrealistic arithmetic rate and making sure you add a percent to stop those discounts for millions of people. Now, in the past, you have voted against motions from the PVV asking for them. Now the situation is perhaps more acute than ever before. My question to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is not to ask the Minister to draw up scenarios, but to put forward, as a group, whether or not she is in favour of raising the interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u23	I do not agree with Mr De Jong of the PVV, because Mr De Jong says that there is only one way to prevent discounts. There are many other ways. 50PLUS and GroenLinks jointly had an initiative law to postpone recovery periods. Then we can avoid discounts. So there are a lot of ways. What I think is a little dangerous to do today, also in view of the pension agreement and the goals that have been agreed in it, which we simply support, is to say today, without consulting the social partners and pension funds, that we are going to push that button. I think that's dangerous. You make great gestures, but I move towards you by saying: nothing is taboo for us, everything is negotiable. But we're not gonna make that choice here today. I want the Cabinet to reflect on this and develop scenarios along with the field. We need to discuss this very quickly so that we can make sensible decisions together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u24	Everyone knows how fast the pace is in the House of Representatives. Next thing you know, it's December 31st and it has to cut down funds. You say: yes, you do. But then you have to cut down on millions of people. We have not yet spent 20 minutes working on this debate and the word 'danger' has already been mentioned, while I am only talking about increasing the rate of calculation. The honourable Member of GroenLinks refers to the proposals made by professors at the University of Tilburg and the University of Groningen as dangerous. But it is really dangerous if you take away the confidence in this pension system and that happens when you allow unnecessary discounts to take place. So I ask my question again, and I make the urgent request on behalf of all those millions of people who see their pensions being cut unnecessarily now, to step over your own shadow and to support the proposal that we will do again in a moment to adjust the interest rate and avoid these discounts. I'd like a yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u25	I'm afraid I can't answer anything but no. I've indicated how we're in it now. We want to see scenarios first, also in consultation with the social partners. Why did I react like that? That had to do with the fact that you said that things are going very slowly in the Chamber. That is usually the case, but I think all the parties here in the Chamber agree that this is incredibly urgent. We all see the deadline of 1 January getting closer. If we all think it is urgent, then I am convinced that we can talk about this again very quickly, because 1 January is getting closer and closer. Mr. Chairman. This was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Kees has been very worried about his retirement for years. Who's Kees? Kees spent his whole life working full-time in the metal. Since 2009, he has been retired from the Metal Fund and since 2009 he has not been indexed. First there was surprise and then justified anger, because the €700 he gets next to his AOW is an incredibly important amount that is needed to do his shopping and pay life. Because of the concerns of Kees and many others, we as the Labour Party together with GroenLinks supported the goals of the pension agreement and ultimately the pension agreement itself. That was concluded between the cabinet, the coalition and the social partners. Why? Because it has very important parts in it. First of all, people who can't make it can stop working sooner. People have been looking forward to that for a long time. Another important point is the rapidly rising AOW age. That stopped. That increase is now much slower. Thirdly, the pension system is aimed at indexing, with collectivity and solidarity. So it's not just about raising money, it's about indexing. It is very important for Kees and many others, and also for the workers of today, that they will have a good pension. On the way to this new pension system, there will be no unnecessary reductions. That's the fourth important deal we've made with each other. We're going from one world to another. It has already been said: the world has changed in two or three months. We have an unprecedented economic situation. We have 0% interest rates and pension funds should even have negative interest rates in the longer term. This is a situation which we have never known and which calls for new solutions. What Kees, the Labour Party and many others do not want is that the cabinet, as an accountant, will explain the accounting rules and say: this is the reality of the present and we will have to take that discount together. No. We ask of this cabinet that everything will come on the table to see how we can prevent those unnecessary discounts, mind you, for the metal is 10% on the roll for Kees and all those other people who have been waiting for it for years. This is important for the maintenance of the system and so that we can all go to the new system, which is in the interest of the current pensioners and of all workers who need to regain confidence in a pension system that is collective and leaves sufficient pension for them when they retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u29	I have a good proposal in itself when we are talking about the example of the metal funds that Mr Van Dijk has just presented. They're now about 96%. If you adjust the calculation rate by 1%, it saves 12% in the coverage rate. That'll bring them to 108% right away. In other words, they don't have to cut any more. That is a very specific proposal. This also applies to all kinds of other pension funds, whether it be the ABP or the Pension Fund for Health and Welfare. They're all around 95% to 96%. I say increase the rate of calculation by 1%, a rate of coverage of 12% and no more cuts at the end of the year. Can Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party support the proposal to introduce it, at least as long as the ECB is pursuing its current policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u30	I'm just sketching two developments. We are moving towards a new pension system, which is aimed at indication and not at raising money. Secondly, all of a sudden within a few months, we are living in a bizarre economic situation, which we have never seen before and which is particularly affecting the funds. Then I'm not gonna pull out a proposal here because I'm not the financial specialist. I represent the people who are deeply concerned. However, I agree with Mr De Jong that we should instruct the Cabinet to come up with a number of scenarios as soon as possible, avoiding these unnecessary reductions as much as possible. So I'm not gonna put down a single proposal here that we're all gonna have to focus on, and say, "That's how we're gonna solve it." I say to the cabinet, fix it! Fix it so those people don't get hit as hard as they seem to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u31	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u32	The Labour Party is a party here in the Lower House. It is a political party, which can come up with its own ideas. That doesn't depend on this minister, does it? It may be that Mr Van Dijk has seen that this debate has been on the table for a year, that the threat of discounts has been going on for years. This is not just about the last month; it has been under way for years. We have been saying for years: adjust the interest rate. More and more experts are joining in on this. We can't wait for this minister. If it has to come up with all kinds of proposals again, millions of people will be cut by the end of the year. Stop that now. And you can do that by supporting the proposal to adjust at least 1% of the calculation rate, to prevent reductions, whether temporary or not, at least for those millions of people who are now in danger of being cut short. Why don't you just say "yes" to that? Excellent opportunity!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u33	Some kind of contradiction is being created. It is precisely on the basis of the pension agreement that the cabinet has been instructed to avoid unnecessary pension reductions. If we hadn't had a pension agreement, we'd be standing here, and we'd all be heading towards a wall and we couldn't have done anything. That is why I ask the Cabinet to map everything, given the new situation that makes pension funds extremely difficult. Anything can be discussed. And I expect us to talk about this again in the Chamber as soon as possible and not in December, but as soon as possible so that we can avoid these unnecessary pension reductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u34	Whatever you think of the pension agreement, it's gonna take a pretty long time to work it all out. The pension agreement did not agree on what would happen in the meantime with any threatening reductions in pensions. What should this government do next to the PvdA Group to prevent pensions being reduced in the meantime? Or does the Labour Party say we're just waiting? Does she say, "Let the Minister let things go, let pensions be cut?" In other words, what is the proposal of the Labour Party between now and the appearance of the effect of the pension agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u35	We're an opposition party with nine seats, so I'm gonna put the ball in the cabinet, where I think it belongs. I say to the cabinet, to Minister Koolmees: we have made four important agreements with each other, including the agreement that there should be no unnecessary pension reductions on the way to the new pension system. I am now saying to Mr Koolmees: avoid unnecessary pension reductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr Van Kent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u37	I hear the Labour Party say: avoid unnecessary pension reductions. Then I wonder: what pension discounts are needed as far as Mr Gijs van Dijk is concerned? One is unnecessary, the other is obviously necessary. I can't wait to see what you mean by that. I am also very curious about the idea of the Labour Party. A number of proposals have been made here. You know how we feel about my party and you know about 50PLUS and the PVV. I believe that through left-wing cooperation we can force this minister to prevent millions of people from going through a reduction in their pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u38	The world is really turning around here. Of course, we do not want pensions to be cut, that is obvious. No one likes that. But the SP has run away from the pension agreement, which was an important part of it: avoiding unnecessary pension reductions. So you should not blame me for ordering the cabinet to carry it out while the SP itself ran away. That's just silly. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u39	You may respond to this for a moment and then it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u40	Firstly, we did not run away, but we stayed at the table until the last minute. After that, we were sidelined. Mr Gijs van Dijk knows that too. Secondly, the agreements reached on a new pension contract are still vague. There is still work to be done, as Mr Gijs van Dijk knows. But in the meantime, between now and the drafting of that new pension contract, there are threats of discounts for millions of people. I note here that the Labour Party does not have an answer to that, but points to this Minister and does not go much further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u41	That's kind of the SP as we know her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u42	No, you must not interfere in the debate, I say to those present in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u43	I have indicated in my contribution that it is our commitment to avoid unnecessary pension reductions for all those people, that this is also part of the agreement and that the cabinet should not act as an accountant, but should put everything on the table in order to achieve this for those now 2 million people and those 8 million people who are on the list before the year after.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Madam President. The confidence that your pension is safe. The trust that your retirement will be handled carefully. That confidence has been severely damaged. As has already been mentioned, the Pension Federation rightly speaks of a frightening vision of the future. All signals are red. The indexing for each generation was the use of the actions of whole workers and pensioners who are present here today. But the outcome after reaching the pension agreement is likely to be: a reduction in pensions for each generation. Because from electrician to teacher, from auto mechanic to nurse, millions of people face an unnecessary reduction in their pension. On top of the already huge income losses because pensions have not risen with prices in recent years or even, in the case of metal, have already been reduced. It is unjust and unnecessary because pension funds are obliged to count poor by having to count on a manipulated interest rate. The SP has been saying that for over 12 years, but the SP isn't just saying it. Several scientists say so, too. Recently the two professors Hoogduin and Eijffinger described this situation in Het Financieele Dagblad. It is not a problem today or tomorrow, but it is a problem that has existed for more than a decade. As long as pension funds are required to calculate their future liabilities on the basis of false assumptions, millions of pensioners will suffer. The pension agreement must therefore also be broken open. New agreements need to be made so that the rules with which pension funds now have to count off the table and pensions are finally withdrawn from the table again with prices and reductions. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to break the pension agreement and agree to prevent reductions in pensions over the next two years? Does the Minister intend to amend other laws and rules in addition to the adjustment of the level of cover, which is technical, but does the Minister know what I mean, in order to avoid discounts? Is the Minister prepared to allow pension funds to postpone reductions pending the completion of the pension agreement? Is it true that if there is no agreement on the new contract in the steering committee, the adjustments to the AOW age are also off the table? In other words, are these two things linked together? Finally. The SP recently published a list of the 15 highest income in the pension sector. Of those fifteen most earning pension fund directors and executives, the pocket-fillers in the pension sector, 14 are in pension funds where pension reductions are now threatening. Is this Minister finally prepared to put an end to this pocket stuffing and at least to allow the Top Income Standards Act, better known as the beaming standard, to apply to these pension funds? Because, of course, it's crazy that just in times when pension reductions threaten people with these kinds of salaries they go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Then I give now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u47	No, you can't applaud in the public gallery. I'm gonna say it one more time. I'm so sorry. You must not express your approval or disapproval in any way. So try to hold back a little, no matter how difficult that may be. Deal? You're gonna do your best. Okay. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman. This spring, after years of negotiations, the social partners concluded a pension agreement. That is then embraced by the cabinet and by a majority of this Chamber. That agreement had to put an end to years of uncertainty, especially among older people. If you've worked hard all your life, you don't want to worry about your old age provision. That is precisely why the pension agreement was so badly needed. But a pension agreement can't solve everything. The interest rate can be good or bad. The stock exchange prices can be a bitch or a bitch. And it wasn't easy this summer. You'll see that right away in coverage. The figures for the large pension funds, in particular, look like shit. In the last few months of the year it may be possible to recover, but it remains worrying. I would like to ask the Minister how he is looking at this at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I have some points. First of all, the low interest rate. We have to assume it's going to last a long time. This raises the question of how to keep our pension system sound and affordable. That will be just one of the most important challenges. We're gonna have to talk about that. My question to the Minister is whether he is already talking about this with De Nederlandsche Bank and the planning agencies. Secondly, the agreements in the pension agreement have become even more urgent than they already were. We must now make sure that we make meters very quickly, so that we can avoid unnecessary discounts and give people clarity quickly. I have some questions. What about the steering committee? Can the Minister provide a timeline for legislation? Can we speed up on that, too? And what about the transitional regime by which we are going to avoid these unnecessary reductions? Does the Minister foresee that we need a new opinion from the Commission Parameters, or is the current opinion sufficient? Finally, what can pension funds themselves do to cover themselves against further interest rate reductions should they occur? I also ask this because we are now talking about the annual report of DNB in 2017. In that you can see very clearly that the pension funds that had covered themselves against a fall in interest rates were much better. Another point that colleagues Slootweg and Van Brenk have also drawn attention to before. We've frozen the AOW age, and not everyone is happy about that. Municipal officials, but also people in other sectors, should now be obliged to retire earlier because of that AOW age. They ring the bell because they'll miss a couple of months of retirement. We have to be able to fix that. Will the Minister make a commitment to this? The only thing I want to settle here is that these people have the choice to work voluntarily until the original AOW age, as we knew until a few months ago. How can we best arrange that? Should this be done through consultation or through transitional law? That's what I'd like to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. You've been through your interruptions, Mr. Van Kent. But you can ask a question, otherwise it's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u50	I shall be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u51	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you for that. I hear "unnecessary discounts" all the time. I wonder if that will come back to D66 and the CDA. Looks like we've got a job to do. My question to the VVD is: what discounts do you need and what discounts do you find unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u53	We have really taken a big step with the pension agreement. So far, pension funds have had to cut if they were under 104% for a long time. That's gonna be 100% now. That's gonna save you a hell of a shot. That's where the unnecessary discounts are. As you know, the whole pension system is going to go on and we are going to try to make as much air as possible. Well, that's something the steering committee needs to find out. So the sooner we have that clarity, the sooner I can answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u54	So with all the funds that are now under 100, you'll need those discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u55	It is far too early to say anything about that now. We are now discussing coverage levels from month to month. In addition, we have a level of policy coverage. Please don't let us talk us into it. Let us please enter into dialogues and just talk to each other about possibilities and give as much space as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u57	Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that this debate was requested a long time ago, it is a good thing that we are talking about this issue right now. It's a topical subject. The threat of pension reductions is very high. For some funds, the level of coverage is currently so low that short cuts do not need to be called a threat, but are almost certain. I think that's very harsh. Pensioners have worked a very large part of their lives, paid pension contributions and contributed to the pension funds. Now that they can finally benefit from their pension, many are most likely to be cut short. That sounds very unjust, and I think it is. That feeling lives very broad, and not only here in the Chamber, but especially in the people's home. Over the past few years, I've been told by a lot of people that they're worried about their retirement. And that's right. Just before the summer, a pension agreement has finally been reached, which we, too, are pleased with, but now you will actually find that there is going to be a reduction. Mr. Chairman. I understand, of course, that we have agreed on the current rules and that this does not allow us to index pensions in the short term. But my appeal to the Minister is to do everything in his power to prevent those discounts. My questions to the Minister are therefore the following. Does the Minister see room to avoid these discounts or to ease their pain? Is he prepared to present scenarios where everything can be questioned? Colleagues of the Labour Party and of GroenLinks asked this earlier. Pensioners have already had to make a great deal of money in recent years. Pensions are not indexed, and it can also be seen from the purchasing power figures that people with pensions have not or hardly improved. A very large group of people will be financially affected or even hit very hard by these discounts. Mr. Chairman. So far, I have been talking in particular about threatening short-term discounts. But my question to the Minister is also whether he can guarantee that there will be a more equitable reduction or indexing in the future. Can he guarantee that in economic good times there will be just "sustainable" indexing? Because that is precisely where there is a pain: the economy is doing well, and yet it looks like pensioners are likely to be cut down next year. I would like to call on the Minister to pay real attention to this when drawing up the pension agreement. Make that pension system fairer and more understandable, so that it also feels normal, so that pensioners feel it in their pockets when the economy is doing well. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u59	Mr. Chairman. After a long talk, the pension agreement has been concluded, to make the pension system really more ready for the future, to make it more personal, to improve the chances of indexing and indeed to make it more explainable. Mr Stoffer said it very nicely: how do you explain a discount in good times? You want to be able to pay out faster in good times and index. Mr. Chairman. Since the agreement was concluded, interest rates and stock exchanges, although the latter seem to have recovered somewhat, have not been easy. That had an immediate impact on the levels of coverage. And as a result, the concern about discounts increased again. I have a number of questions for the Minister. The first question concerns the following. Look, of course, the fact that we still have to count on a risk-free calculation rate has to do with it, and that is also the case in one of the two contracts of the new pension system, that there is money put together in one pot to pay pensions now and in the future. Then the question is: what does it mean for a funded system at all that interest rates have been so low for so long? In response to parliamentary questions from the CDA, among others, the Minister said to look into them. That seems necessary to me, because it is a very fundamental question. I would also like to point out that, of course, we are working with this level of coverage and the rate of calculation because we have chosen not to go to completely personal pots. Because if you do, you're actually done with the fact that you have to safeguard the balance between generations through that level of coverage. Can the Minister confirm that of the two contracts in the new system, the contract with the improved premium scheme with personal pots in the build-up phase is in any case more robust for low interest rates than the other? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the following. We agreed that, of course, if you go to a system in which pensions may move back and forth with the economy a little faster than in the run-up to that new system, you will be short while you are at 100% coverage. This means that if there is to be a reduction, it will at least be much less. And hopefully there would not have to be any cuts in funds that would have had to if we hadn't had a pension agreement. I also get signals that not only that 104% is a point, but also the fact that you have to make a recovery plan. Eventually that still adds up to more than 120%. In the current system, that is the agreement. But if we change the system, does that mean that the Minister is going to look very closely at the required equity capital in the discussion with the social partners he is currently conducting? Because my feeling is that Mrs Van Brenk's example is partly caused by this. Is that also on the table with the social partners? Mr. Chairman. By the way, at the end of the day, the balanced treatment of all the generations whose money is now in pension funds will always be the test for my group. Mr. Chairman. One final comment. We also have the AOW. For a lot of people, that's just as important. That's an income that's about the same size as the average pension. Mr Gijs van Dijk referred to this too. I assume that the Cabinet of Princess Day is not only trying to really take a good look at even more purchasing power for workers, but also not forgetting pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u60	I have a question for Mr Van Weyenberg. I have also heard it a bit in the comments surrounding this debate, but at the end of the debate there is a reference to Prince's Day and the purchasing power plates. But I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg something. Does his party, including within the coalition and within the agreements, also want to look at the pension domain? Buying power plates can often be explained again the year after as: well, for you it hasn't worked out quite like that! So I would like to look for solutions to prevent these unnecessary reductions in pensions, especially in the pension domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u61	In fact, one of the measures... Mr Gijs van Dijk knows that my group also felt it was very important that when you go to a new system where you say that you will be able to index again from 100%, and then in the run-up to that, in those two or three years, you say that you are going to cut well, which of course cannot be explained. So we're not gonna do that either. So I want to look at everything, but I do think that generation balance is important, because in the new system too, in one contract more than in the other, of course the money of all generations is still combined with the same pension funds. This means that you must deal with this very carefully, but I think that Mr Gijs van Dijk agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u62	I am glad that Mr Van Dijk is going to intervene immediately, because if there is indeed a risk of reductions for the coming years while we are doing the purchasing power for one year, then that does not really help people. But the question is: I note that D66 also calls on this minister to investigate how we deal with a capital-covered system at zero. But, of course, we need answers to that as soon as possible. Does D66 also insist on speed, so that we can provide clarity before 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u63	I find that a bit of a difficult question. The easy answer is, of course, yes. That may be tempting to say, but that is not entirely fair either. Because if it were to come out that you would want to go to such a whole new system without the funding of Mrs Van Brenk, I am absolutely not there yet! We both know that this will not be a success before 1 January. So I'd also like to be a little careful of giving people false hope. But I do see that there is an urgency when it comes to long-term low interest rates. I see that we agreed in the pension agreement to ensure by 1 January that we limit the possibility of reductions in the transition to that new system. And if it does, we limit the size of it. I would very much like to see the studies on this. We all know that on 1 January we will not have a whole new pay-as-you-go system in the Netherlands. I don't think Mrs Van Brenk is expecting that either. Mr. Chairman. If I may say one more sentence about purchasing power: I fully agree with the limits, especially those of purchasing power, but if you are structuralally doing something about the income that you see in purchasing power, then of course they can also be measures that will remain every year thereafter. It does not have to be one-off measures; it certainly does not, as far as I am concerned. That's just a supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u64	It would be nice if we did have time for such a study and that it is solid and good. I can imagine. But is D66 open to taking a temporary measure, depending on what comes out of that study, to at least get those discounts off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u65	The steering group now has the question of how we deal with this in the transition to the new pension system. Then we always look from what we have agreed so far. However, I fully share your view that this is a very fundamental question, which I believe also applies to many pension funds, for example. If they are going to have to opt for one of those two pension contracts from the pension agreement, I assume they will consider how robust that is if interest rates remain low for a long time. Well, that's part of the game. However, I would like to beware of the idea that this study on a completely different pension system is going to give us a great deal of relief as of 1 January, because I doubt that. In this sense, I am also very curious, with a number of colleagues, about where the discussions in the steering committee lead. I have just said that, in addition to that measure in the pension agreement, we will also look at this equity. So we're not applying that measure on January 1st, and that's quite something, is it? In an existing system, we do not use that rule of play, because we simply do not think it can be explained in a transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u66	The reason I am standing here is because of the last remark made by Mr Van Weyenberg in his regular term. It was about the AOW. In the run-up to this debate, a number of previews have been written, in which a number of colleagues will speak. Mr Van Weyenberg also mentioned the AOW. I thought, interestingly, would Mr. Van Weyenberg know anything about what's going to happen on Princess Day, which I don't know as a simple member of the opposition? I am not going to make it that difficult for him, but I would like to know from Mr Van Weyenberg whether D66 thinks that the AOW should be raised on Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u67	I think I even know what you're talking about. So let me answer your non-asked question. I don't think I used the word "AOW" in that. What I have said is that I think it is important that the cabinet with Princess Day, in addition to much more purchasing power for workers, should not forget pensioners. Those were even my literal words, I think. I would like to repeat this appeal from my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u68	I may have read it really wrong, but I thought somewhere in that context was also the AOW. You just mentioned it, too, so at least you mentioned it. Could you comment on whether D66 thinks that the AOW might need to be increased? GroenLinks is in favour of this. It is also in our electoral programme, so I am looking for support. You have more influence on that than we do, so who knows? Maybe it's gonna happen. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u69	That is a complete understatement of his influence by Mr Smeulders, but he knows that. You know, I think there are many ways in which you can strengthen the purchasing power of older people and pensioners. The AOW is one of them. By the way, there are other ways that might allow a little more customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, just before the summer, I think we were here with more satisfaction. We were glad that after years of discussion there was finally a pension agreement. That meant a lot. This meant modernisation, but that also meant that cooperation in the polder and in the Chamber has an effect. An important part of the agreement was the adjustment of the discount rules, which does not reduce the transition to the new system to 100% coverage. But a lot has changed in the summer. The trade war between China and the US is currently having a real impact on the investment results of pension funds. Since the debate was requested last year, interest rates have fallen by one percent. We're dealing with a negative interest rate. We believe this to be the core of the pension system. Not only older people, but also children are getting more and more difficult to explain that it is important to put money aside because it will help you later. But right now, the situation is so that the money is worth less. The current negative interest rate situation requires a pension fund to have more than €150 in cash in order to receive a nominal payment of €100 in ten years' time. This affects not only pensioners, but also those who are saving now. The trend in interest rates has been downward for a long time, but there are, of course, other factors as well. Let me be clear. Yesterday, Mrs Lagarde was in the European Parliament. There it indicated that the absolute lower limit for the policy rate of interest is not yet reached at -0.4% of the interest rate and that the interest rate will remain very low for a longer period of time; it does not exclude that. Then I come to my questions to the Minister. Can the Minister state what his view of our pension system is if interest rates remain below zero on a multiannual basis? Is the Minister prepared to instruct independent experts, such as the CPB or De Nederlandsche Bank, to investigate whether a funded pension system is sustainable if the interest rate curve is long at 0% or below? Does he also want to ask how pensions should be financed at negative interest rates or 0% interest rates, and what does that mean for supervision? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister is requesting a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u73	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u74	Thank you, Madam President. If it's all right with you, I'm going to make a general introduction first. Then I will deal with a number of specific questions. I do so on the basis of a number of small blocks, namely the questions about the discounts, the questions about the steering committee, the elaboration of the pension agreement, the questions about interest rates and a few other issues. But I'd like to start with a general introduction. No one in the Netherlands could have noticed that a number of pension funds are in bad shape. So bad, in fact, that they may have to reduce pensions and pension building next year. It certainly didn't get past me. You know I like to talk about technique and maybe accounting. But also know that I understand very well that the emotional side of our pension system, the aspect of trust, plays a major role in people's lives. I also understand very well that it falls on your roof if you think your pension is fixed, while now it turns out that a reduction is possible. I'm not gonna start my story again with a profit warning. I am also going to tell you why, unfortunately, it is sometimes necessary to reduce pensions and pension building in certain cases. The economic reality, in which pension funds operate, can give rise to this. I think we should keep a few things apart. I think it is important to indicate this before the start of this debate. Firstly, it concerns the elaboration of the pension agreement by the steering committee. That's one. Secondly, we are talking about the current economic situation and the impact on pensions in the coming months. That's two. Three is the possible economic situation with a long-term low interest rate for the coming decades. What does that mean for our pension system? I would like to keep these three aspects apart, otherwise one debate will infect the other. I don't think that's wise. Let me start with the first point. In the coming months, the Steering Committee will draw up the pension agreement. Fortunately, before the summer, we agreed to modernise, renew and improve the pension system. This is totally unrelated to the current economic situation. The new pension system will take place from 2022. In addition, I would like to discuss their financial situation with pension funds in a separate section in the coming months. In the consultation I will talk to the sector about the regime that limits the MVEV rebates: it requires minimum own funds, which we agreed on in the pension agreement. The sector is also calling for such consultations and I am prepared to respond to them. I will inform the Chamber before the end of the year about the outcome of these talks. I will come back to that in detail later. Secondly, the current economic situation and the financial requirements. Many of your Members have said that the situation of pension funds has deteriorated rapidly after the agreement has been concluded. This is worrying about the funds, but it is particularly worrying for pensioners and the people who are still building up their pensions. The deteriorating situation is reflected in the levels of coverage of pension funds. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the rules. Those are the current rules. The core of the financial rules for pension funds is that they have sufficient capacity to comply with pensions for present and future generations as much as possible. Part of those rules, those current rules, is the retention of two types of buffer capabilities. In the first place, then, it is the required own funds, the VEV. That's to absorb financial shocks. Secondly, it concerns the minimum own funds required, the MVEV, which serves as the ultimate buffer. In other words, a pension fund that owns at least the VEV, which requires own funds, can fulfil all its liabilities with a higher degree of security than a fund that owns only the MVEV, the minimum required own funds. Should a fund not be able to meet the required own funds, it should submit a recovery plan. In that recovery plan, it indicates how it will meet that requirement of the required own funds in up to 10 years. At the moment when it is no longer possible to recover in ten years, the fund has reached its critical level of coverage. For example, for ABP, this critical coverage rate is 95%. If the ABP falls below that limit on 31 December, it has to cut to that 95%. But before the funds reach that critical level of coverage, they have already fallen by the limit of the minimum required equity. This limit is about 104% for benefit agreements. As the minimum required own funds serve as the ultimate buffer, a fund should not default for more than five years. If it is not possible to meet that minimum capital requirement again in five years, the fund must make a reduction. We of course made an agreement with each other in the pension agreement and for that we have adjusted the discount for the MVEV, the minimum required equity capital. Why? We're going to send in the new system, which we're working towards, at a coverage rate of 100%. Then it is not reasonable to maintain a coverage rate of 104.3%, the coverage rate currently laid down in the law. That was also the debate between Mr Smulders, Mrs Van Brenn and myself in the pension agreement. In anticipation of the new pension agreement, we have managed to avoid these unnecessary discounts. I also have to discuss this with both the funds and the supervisor. Then I will come to the Chamber with a regulation on how we are going to give this exactly technical form, because that also requires a change in the rules. The VEV discount, the discount for the required equity. The pension assets are intended for all members of the pension fund and pensioners. With that capital, all pensions must be paid. In order not to allow financial shocks to immediately lead to pension adjustments, pension funds may submit recovery plans to demonstrate how they improve their situation. In the meantime, pension funds do not have to reduce pensions. We do not need to cut short, but at the same time we need to include in the rules that they should not infinitely shift a deficit towards the future, also in order to protect all the participants, pensioners, the active but also the younger participants. If they did, this would lead to redistribution at the expense of the younger generations and the generations who still have to join the pension system. This also puts pressure on support and confidence in the system. That is a bit of the balance that we need to strike in this discussion. Therefore, it may also be wise to reduce pensions and pension building as an ultimate remedy. That's what's going on now. Some of the funds for which there is a risk of a reduction have therefore been too little ability to meet these minimum requirements for five years. That discount, bearing in mind the pension agreement, we're gonna soften it anyway. That's the deal we made. Another part of the funds has a level of coverage which is so low that they will not be able to recover realistically in the foreseeable future. Mr Van Weyenberg has asked a question about this requirement for own funds, and I shall come back to that in a moment. But there too, of course, was the question of how this relates to the spirit of the pension agreement. I'll come back to that later. Finally, I have three nuances to this worrying situation of pension funds. Firstly, there could be the impression that pension funds have to cut massively. However, there is a great deal of difference between the funds. 60% of pension funds may increase pensions in whole or in part. Mr Van der Linde asked for that, I think. These funds often have higher pension contributions, invest less in shares and in a number of cases also have an addition obligation from employers. The main difference between the funds is actually the extent to which they have covered up against the falling interest rates of the last ten years. So there is a big difference between the funds in the Netherlands. Not all the funds are in bad shape. I think this is an important nuance in this debate. Second. Some people say that discounts are not necessary at all, because pension funds have a lot of assets and the calculation rate would no longer be realistic. On the other hand, we simply need the objective thermometer to make sure that we are not spending too much money now. Should the funds make higher returns and have sufficient buffer, they may distribute that higher return. That's part of the pension agreement. In the current pension contract there are, as it were, two security requirements. Firstly, that is the prudent calculation rate, the thermometer, and secondly, the required own capital, the build-up of buffers. Only when these buffers are built up can one fully index at the level of 130%. In the pension agreement, we deliberately chose to drop those buffers and to index them more quickly if returns are achieved. If returns are achieved, they can reach the participants earlier. Well, there's another story to that. That's what I've been saying. I said this before the summer when the pension agreement was presented: steering more closely to 100% coverage means that in many cases we can index faster, but it also means that it can be cut more quickly if it fails. Mr Stoffer had justified questions about this in his first term. He asked if the indexing is indeed closer. Yes, but there is another story, namely that on the other hand there can be a faster reduction. A third nuance. I will discuss the new contract with the sector in the coming months. That's separate from the steering committee. We'll get to work on that very quickly. I've heard your encouragements. We need to work it out quickly, because the sooner there is clarity about it, the sooner we can put an end to the uncertainty. That's why I really want to separate those two routes. I am going to talk to the sector to have clarity about this in the coming months. At the end of the year, I'll come back to the Chamber to discuss exactly how we're going to shape this. The last point concerns the longer term. In addition to developments in the steering committee of the pension agreement and current economic developments, there is increased demand for the longer term. Mr Omtzigt has previously called for attention to be paid to the pension agreement. Mr Slootweg also asked questions about it in the first term. It is actually the question of the relationship between pay-as-you-go financing and capital cover. That's basically what it comes down to, especially if you go to a structurally low interest rate environment. If interest rates remain structurally low and may even become negative, what does that mean for the funded pension? What does it mean for the ratio between the pay-as-you-go part, the AOW, and any capital-as-you-go pension? Those are very fundamental questions. It would mean, for example, that you would have to increase the AOW, perhaps in return for reducing the build-up of the funded pension. There's a lot of questions coming out of that. On financing, as Mr Slootweg mentioned, but also on risks. One of the advantages of the current system is that we take up the risk of an ageing population, because we have cover and cover. Countries that have only been paid for a change also face financial difficulties in the face of an increasing ageing population, as more and more people are receiving pension benefits financed from the current budget. Look at the situation in Germany. You have to find a balance between the pay-off part and the capital-backed part. I will come back to that in a moment specifically in response to Mr Slootweg's question. Mr. Chairman. With this introduction I have tried to outline a little bit what we are talking about, because there are actually different discussions going on. In this pension file, I often notice that these discussions run very quickly. I think it's nice to tear that apart. For example, we can discuss with the Chamber both the impact of the pension agreement and the current economic situation in the short term. That was my introduction, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u75	I'm gonna make it a little more complicated, because I'm gonna throw some things together. Since the conclusion of the pension agreement, the world has changed. Several speakers have already mentioned this, and so did the Minister. Pension funds now have to charge negative interest rates. That is a bit of the main question in this debate. I haven't heard from the Minister about that, because he has explained in particular the rules of the ftk, how to do that and what the critical limits are. But the main question in this debate is: is there room for this minister, in the cabinet, to think outside the existing frameworks? This bizarre economic situation could, after all, have one to do with the other, which is best maintained in the longer term, so that we can avoid unnecessary pension reductions for many people as much as possible. For the coming year, we are talking about 2 million people. Is there room? I think that's the main question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u76	Yeah, there's that room. In fact, we have already promised this in the pension agreement, when it comes to minimum own funds requirements. In addition, I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has asked a fair question about the required own funds. In other words, what are the deadlines on which you have to return to a coverage rate of 120% or 125%, if we actually go to a new system where that is no longer the target? I certainly want to take a serious look at that, but if you don't mind, I would like to discuss it with the sector first. Like you, I am looking for what is sensible, but also what is sensible for all pensioners, for workers, for young people, for the longer term of the whole pension system. Once again, I would like to inform the Chamber about this shortly, but I would like to have that conversation with the sector first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u77	That's exactly why I didn't put up one part. I really think that trade unions, employers, pension funds should be on the table with each other. In view of this situation, they really need to look at other solutions, together with the Minister. So I'm willing to give him that space, but we don't have much time. In that sense, we have no time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u78	I recognize that, and I share it with Mr Van Dijk. I think what Mr Gijs van Dijk said is also sensible. Before the end of the year, this must be clarified in any case, even if it is only because I promised your Chamber that before the end of the year I would give concrete substance to the agreements in the pension agreement on these reductions. So we have that debate again anyway. But I have heard Mr Gijs van Dijk's comments very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u79	The Minister spoke a few soothing words, or perhaps I myself dress them up in the vein of: it is not so bad, because a very large proportion of pension funds do not stand for discounts. But in numbers, a lot of people are going to suffer. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u80	I recognize that. The funds that are relatively bad for them... I have just said that 60% of the funds are still in good shape, but these are generally smaller funds. The larger funds are indeed relatively worse. This affects a larger number of participants, and I agree with Mrs Van Brenn. Moreover, not all funds have the same moments either. For two funds, the metal funds, the measuring period is 31 December this year, because they have not complied with the minimum required own funds for five years. For other funds, the measurement period is 31 December 2020, i.e. in one and a half years' time, global. Why do I put that nuance? These accounting rules apply, of course, to all funds, but there is a great diversity in the financial position of different pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u81	I'm gonna try again. I know I'm not convincing this minister, but I'd still like to hear some reflection from him. We once agreed on a system in this room. We have chosen that system ourselves, with the new financial review framework, as it is so well called. That's how we came up with a thermometer, but it's broken right now. Everyone pointed out the negative interest rate. That thermometer's no good anymore. Shouldn't we be open to seeing if we can't get to another thermometer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u82	Mrs Van Brenk's question contains two elements. Firstly, I agree with her that there is an unusual economic situation, with in many cases negative interest rates. This applies not only to Europe. This applies to many countries in the world and also to some corporate bonds. That is a special economic situation. I agree with Mrs Van Brenn. At the same time, I disagree with something. The pension funds have two sides of the balance sheet. On the one hand, the liabilities stand and they are indeed valued at a certain interest rate. On the other side are the assets, so the shares, the bonds and the real estate. These, too, are of course affected by, for example, falling interest rates. The value of the bonds increases as market interest rates fall. Market interest therefore has an effect on both sides of the balance sheet, both on liabilities and on assets. So that the thermometer isn't right, I don't agree with Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u83	That thermometer's broken. It's on the ground, 25 trucks have gone over it, and there's nothing left of it. Why is that? Let me make a few nuances in this whole debate. The minister says that a number of pension funds are dramatic. Yes, based on the calculation method, by the way they are required to count themselves poorer than they are, and not in relation to what they have in cash. The Minister has come up with nothing today: he has not sent a letter, he does not come up with measures and he has still not promised that these discounts will be cancelled. My question to him is what is preventing him from changing that calculation method by one percent at least until the ECB stops disrupting the whole situation. This is to ensure that you buy space, so pension funds don't have to cut short. What's to stop this minister from doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u84	The substantive answer is that market interest rates are the market interest rates. There are several factors that explain the fall in interest rates, for example the fact that there is an ageing world and that a lot of savings are being made not only in Europe but also in China, which means that the supply of capital is very large. That's what keeps the interest going. There is also a broad monetary policy worldwide: in Europe, by the ECB, but also in Switzerland, Denmark and Japan, actually all over the world. There are therefore several reasons for this falling interest rate. I have just said to Mrs Van Brenk that falling interest rates have an effect on pension fund liabilities, but also on pension fund assets. We value at market value, both on the liabilities side and on the assets side. That is an agreement we made with each other when we introduced the financial review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u85	You can make appointments as much as you want. This cabinet itself often comes up with proposals, legislative changes, to change or stop certain agreements. This is one of those moments when you could say to yourself: should we have made that change in 2007 or 2008 or not, should we have gone from a fixed interest rate to a risk-free interest rate? Maybe not, but there's a difference of opinion. The result is at least that because of the way in which pension funds are calculated when it comes to what they have in cash, they have to act as if they have less. That's the problem right now. In other words, it is unrealistic. What is preventing this minister from turning that interest rate into a realistic calculation rate that does justice to what the pension funds have in cash and what they achieve in return? I simply do not understand it, because it does nothing about changing the system or not. It's not a big change. It's just preventing discounts. Why doesn't this minister do that? Is that because he doesn't understand or because politically he just doesn't want to make that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u86	An answer in three layers. First of all, until 2006, I say from my head, we had a fixed rate of 4%. It was prudent. It was always lower than market interest rates. At that time, the criticism of pension funds and the social partners was: we are poor. At the request of the pension sector and employers and employees, the switch to market valuation was made to give a more realistic picture of the financial position of pension funds. That in the first place. The interest rate was therefore higher than that 4%. It was a prudent accounting rate. If you were to apply that caution now, you'd have to lower it even lower. That's one. Then two. The question is what is not realistic. It is the reality in the market and, again, not only in the Netherlands. In many countries of the world, including Switzerland, Denmark and Japan, there is currently negative interest rates. So yes, that's the market situation. I can walk away from that, but that's what I can just see in the market. Thirdly, we do indeed have proposals to amend the rules and to amend the laws. They are also enshrined in the pension agreement. We agree, for example, that when pension funds make returns, they no longer have to pay them into an anonymous buffer, but rather can pay them out to the participants, so that this indexing perspective gets closer. So yes, the cabinet fortunately managed to conclude that pension agreement with social partners before the summer, and I am very motivated to work that out, but I do not agree with Mr De Jong's motivation for content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u87	There are a number of large funds, with millions of participants, which are very likely to have to cut by the way they are counted at the moment. This calculation model is unrealistic. If you have to count with 1% return while you get 6% to 7% return, something horribly wrong with the system. I'm not asking you to raise it to 4%. I'm not asking you to raise it to 5%. I'm asking for 1% extra calculus. This could lead to an additional 12% coverage rate for pension funds. In other words, this would bring the large funds, such as ABP, but also metal funds and Care and Welfare, funds that are now all around 95%, above 100%, so that they do not have to be cut short. I am only asking because the ECB is disrupting all of this. There has been an unrealistic situation. So why doesn't this minister just take that up by making a realistic proposal and removing these discounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mr President, I have now answered this question two or three times. It concerns the valuation of two sides of the balance sheet, i.e. liabilities and assets. We do this against the market interest rate according to the law we agreed on. But I think that if we achieve a return that can also be distributed earlier, I agree with Mr De Jong and then we find each other again. That is also the agreement in the pension agreement and that is why I am so motivated to work out that agreement quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u89	The Pension Federation speaks of a terrifying vision of the future. In its letter, the Pension Federation states, among other things, that millions of pensions must be reduced by perhaps 8%, that contributions will increase by 10% to 30%, and that by the Dijsselbloem Commission, which has given an opinion, the level of cover, i.e. the financial position of pension funds, will deteriorate by 2.5% to 10%. Do you agree with me that these three measures, taken together, are going to increase the own funds of these pension funds even further than is already the case? Power has doubled since 2008. That money's all being hoarded up. Does the Minister agree with me that these jars will become much fuller because both pensions are cut, and contributions should be increased by 10% to 30%, and the Dijsselbloem Commission will make these rules even more stringent, which means that even less pension will be paid? In other words, do you agree with me that we are completely on the wrong track, that money is being drawn up completely unnecessarily, and that these accounting rules need to be adapted because this is seriously dipping a lot of people, both workers and pensioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u90	In short: no, I do not agree with Mr Van Kent. I'll make it very simple. Indeed, these assets are very large, towards the EUR 1,500 billion. But these great abilities are faced with more obligations, more promises to the participants. Therefore, the coverage rate is below 100%. That is also the reality, because falling interest rates also mean that the obligations increase, so what has been promised or promised to the participants. Whatever the situation, I also sent to the Chamber this week in response to Mr Omtzigt's questions, with a number of arithmetical examples. So, no, I do not agree with Mr Van Kent's speech. But he knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u91	These liabilities will be calculated in the future on the basis of the accounting rules. And it is precisely those accounting rules that are based on interest manipulated by the European Central Bank. These accounting rules are based on an interest rate that has nothing to do with the returns that pension funds actually achieve. In other words, this minister dictates that pension funds should be obliged to charge themselves poor. Well, it's actually not even this minister: no, it's the Ministry of Finance and behind that De Nederlandsche Bank, because I don't think this minister has that much to say about it. In fact, it is De Nederlandsche Bank that dictates that pension funds should be obliged to charge themselves poor, which means that the assets will shoot into the sky, and much further, into the universe, if all of this is to become reality. In the meantime, workers and pensioners, those for whom all that money has been saved, cannot get anything out of that pot. Do you agree with me that what De Nederlandsche Bank is imposing on you and with it all those pension funds will increase the wealth and make pensioners suffer from it and that it is therefore time to agree on other accounting rules, and not in two years' time, when the pension agreement is being worked out, but today, because these reductions threaten today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u92	A repeat of my answer: no, I do not agree with Mr Van Kent. Again, because on the two sides of the balance sheet of pension funds the effects of falling interest rates continue to work. If interest rates fall, pension funds' liabilities will rise. On the other hand, bonds, for example, are worth more because of falling interest rates. Part of the returns that are made is due to the falling market interest rate. We're gonna have to pull a few things apart. One discussion is about the thermometer: what about the balance between the liabilities of the pension fund and the assets? That is indeed what the calculation rate is the basis for. Another point is the returns that are made. What I like about the pension agreement is that we have split it up. If returns are realised, they can also reach the participants. That's what I think is profit from the pension agreement. But you also have to stick to an objective thermometer to distribute the collective pot among the participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u93	We're deeply disagreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u94	We knew that before, didn't we, Mr. Van Kent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u95	I wonder if this minister is going to see political progress in raising employee pension contributions by 10% to 30%. I wonder if this minister is going to experience politics threatening a pension reduction for 8 million people. I wonder if this minister is going to go through politics that advises a former Minister of Finance to make the accounting rules even more stringent. This minister simply takes that over.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In other words, what is this minister doing? Does the Minister really intend to stand firm and say, on 31 December of this year, to all those people, all these electro mechanics, plumbers and so on, 'after ten years, no increase in pension prices; after previous discounts, your pension will be reduced by 10%'? Is the Minister going to take that on his political behalf?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u96	I have just said in my introduction what I intend to do, namely to start working on the pension agreement in the steering committee anyway. That's one. Two. I am talking to the sector about the threatening reductions and how we should deal with this situation. Then, before the end of the year, I will come to your Chamber with a position on this. I'm sure we'll still have a debate. I have just said it, but this is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mr Smeulders and Mr Van der Linde have explicitly asked to speak with the sector. I have just said: yes, I am going to do that, also to look at opportunities together and to map the consequences. Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent asked why do you not avoid all the discounts, including those based on the minimum capital requirement? Premeditated: no one wants to be cut, I don't want to be cut. If we cut short, then it will be hard for pensioners and also for all people. Mrs Van Brenn rightly said that she is still building up a pension. Because the construction of the workers is also being reduced. That is often forgotten, but that is the situation. So I certainly want to see where discounts can be avoided, but only where that can be done and is logical and explanatory. Part of this is that we are working towards a new contract, where a coverage rate of 100% becomes the new target. This applies both to the minimum required own funds and perhaps also to the required own funds. So I'm going to talk to the sector about that, and I'll be back in your Chamber by the end of the year. In fact, I have already answered Mr Van Weyenberg's question on own funds requirements. That's quite a puzzle, isn't it? In all honesty, that's a complicated puzzle, because you have ten-year recovery periods and you have to grow as a fund to a coverage rate of 120% to 125%. That's where it wrings. The question is whether this is in line with the agreements made under the pension agreement. At the same time, we are faced with a situation in which we are awaiting the new rules for a number of years. I must take a close look at this, also in consultation with the sector. I understand the point he made in his first term. Mr Van der Linde asked what pension funds themselves could do to prevent discounts. As I said earlier, there is a big difference between the different pension funds. There are many funds that are much better for them, but they often have higher premiums. Those funds have invested less in shares. We are talking about payment obligations, but we have also been covering ourselves against falling interest rates by securing them earlier. In the end, therefore, it is up to the social partners to make an assessment. They also make agreements with each other on the implementation of the pension scheme. This includes the agreements on the amount of the premium and the commitment. They really have a responsibility and a role to play in this. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to a few specific questions about the elaboration of the pension agreement. Mr Van der Linde asked if I could inform the Chamber about the organisation and planning of the work. A steering committee has been set up. This month this steering committee discusses the organisation and the planning. As a result of my earlier commitment, I will send to your Chamber the roadmap in which all the parts have been pulled apart with a timetable, so that we can discuss with each other which parts will come when and so that you also know what is being worked on. Mr Van Kent asked whether the reduction in the age of AOW is also off the table and whether there should be a reduction if the steering committee does not come out. I think that's a like-dan question. I am very motivated to work out the pension agreement together with the social partners. I think that we simply have a lot to gain from each other and that we are going to achieve the goals we have set with each other. I have every confidence that we will get out in a good way. That's what I'm committed to. It doesn't make much sense to answer all of them like-dan questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u99	If I understand correctly, we get the laws that are going to make a different link between the AOW age and life expectancy before the new pension contract is worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u100	It's in the road map. I don't have the exact timetable in place right now, but that's in the roadmap on all the parts I'm sending to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u101	There is therefore no link between these two issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u102	However, a link has been made in the pension agreement. Sure. But again, everything I say about that will be construed as a threat. I am not in the mood for that at all, because I want us to work together with the social partners in the steering committee, which includes DNB and the CPB, on issues such as sustainable employability, the heavy-duty professions and the AOW age as well as the pension contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u103	I hear the Minister say that would be interpreted as a threat. In other words, it's linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u104	Mr Van Kent, of course, raises this question very consciously. Because he's trying to provoke a threat to me. So I'm not gonna do that. You can shake your head now, but you imply that with your question. So I'm not gonna do that. I just want us to get out of this together with the social partners. Then it doesn't make much sense to link all kinds of things together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u105	The Minister said "no threat," but it does not reassure us that DNB is on a steering committee. That hasn't made us any better so far. I would like to ask the Minister whether the assumption I sent to him, the arithmetic example, is correct. Is there any chance that the discounts will rise to 19% in 2021? We've been asking some questions. Can I assume that all the questions have been answered at least in the general consultation of Pensions that we would hold before the autumn recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u106	I'd like to do that. I've had a very short time. I couldn't read it myself, because I had to listen to you and take notes. You'll understand. I'm going to see if I can say anything about that in the second term. Otherwise, we'll do it towards the AO. I didn't recognize the numbers, but I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u107	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u108	Let's see. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Slootweg asked about the study of long-term low interest rates. Mrs Van Brenn also underlined the importance of this research. Mr Omtzigt has already asked for this in the debate on the pension agreement. In June too, Mr Omtzigt rightly asked me about a scenario with long-term low interest rates. So apart from all the short-term issues surrounding the pension agreement and the current economic situation and financial and economic conditions, this raises fundamental questions about the discussion on capital cover, cover and that sort of thing. In reply to Mr Omtzigt's questions, I have indicated that I think it is very important that we carry out thorough research on this issue. I would like to include that commitment in the road map, but since Mr Slootweg has explicitly asked for it, I would like to make a commitment to involve independent experts to map it. I think it is a fundamental but fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u109	Do I understand the Minister that it is really being looked at what it would mean for the system that we now have if there were long-term negative interest rates? In particular, I am asking for this because I read this morning in the 'Financial Daily' newspaper that Mrs Lagarde points out, for example, not so much as an objective that she wants to achieve but more than what might be a result. I have been passionately in favour, always was, of a pension system where we would do a part on cover and a part on cover of capital, but my group is very much in favour of the question: if this had been the case in 1950, would we have built it up like this? Do I understand that a scenario of a long-term negative interest rate is included?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u110	I'm definitely gonna take that. I want to add a lot of nuances from my side, but I'm not gonna do that. I agree with Mr Slootweg. There has, of course, been a reason why we have had a combination of cover and cover. Overlay is much more sensitive to ageing and to the fact that the ratio between inactive and active people, the number of pensioners relative to the number of workers, will shift significantly in the coming years to 2042, 2043. That, too, must be taken into account in such an investigation. This contrasts with capital cover and what low interest rates mean for the building up, for the premium, but also what the returns mean for the expected pensions. These are all complex elements and I think it is good to carry out thorough research into them, including in terms of expectations management. It's really about the long term. Everything that's already been built... We have a pension fund of 1,500 billion together, and it has been promised to people. That is divided in terms of obligation among all participants. You can't just say: I'm gonna put a line through it and now we're gonna do it completely different. That, too, is the reality we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u111	I am pleased that the Minister has indicated this, because it is not at all the question of whether the CDA wants to put some sort of line through our pension system. In my introduction to this question, I believe that we are passionately in favour of it. We have long seen that capital cover provides a better guarantee in the event of an ageing population. But you have to see now that this negative interest rate is something that we have never taken into account in any of the scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u112	Once, and that's why I think it's a fair question. But I also do expectations management. A lot of people have built up AOW, have built up a funded pension. Those rights are divided among the participants. It's about a lot of money: 1,500 billion. So it's not like I'm gonna be able to say it. I think the question is quite right. That is what I thought of Mr Omtzigt's question. That's why I'm okay with watching that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u113	I had also asked the Minister if the Chamber could influence the research assignment. I would also like to ask whether he can reflect on the progress made by the former Director of Social Affairs, Mr Pierik. Is that also a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u114	I'll take that in the second term. In any case, I think it is good to talk to the Chamber about such an investigation and the questions that are at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u115	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u116	I will return to Mr Pierik later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u118	Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has asked whether I can confirm that personal pension pots... Mr Van Weyenberg is not listening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u119	He is distracted by Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u120	...or the law improved premium scheme, I'll just say the personal pension pots, is more robust due to the low interest rate. In general, all funded pension contracts are sensitive to interest. Premium times return is the pension. That goes for any contract. It's always macro about the sum of premium and return. It is true that if you buy pension claims today, you are very expensive, because the interest rate is very low and that is expensive. The advantage of the Improved Premium Scheme Act is that you no longer have a discussion about the distribution of the collective pension fund between generations for that part of the build-up. There is, of course, still a collective pot at the benefit stage, which is still subject to an interest rate. He's not gone with that, but he's designed differently than in the new contract. That is why we have agreed with the social partners that we will both work out the two contracts. Of course, the other contract has the advantage of having a more extensive risk sharing. Both have advantages and disadvantages, but in general Mr Van Weyenberg's question is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you for that. I get it: there are no free lunches in pensions. Unfortunately, we are confronted with this every day. My point was this. I understand that the return is relevant and that you have to make an assessment, but the calculation rate and, in particular, the subsequent levels of coverage are, of course, entirely related to the fact that the money is put together in a pot. In one of the two contracts under the pension agreement, this is still true at the benefit stage; that is true. In that it is less than now, but still more than in a system with completely personal pots. If you had that, you'd be completely rid of the billing rate and the cover rate. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u122	Yes. I'm just thinking out loud if that's all right. Yeah, I think that's right. On the other hand, however, there is an extensive risk sharing in the other contract. For me, it's very simple: I made the agreement with social partners that I'm going to work out both contracts. I'll keep my end of the bargain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u123	I'd like to give the Minister a friendly warning. It is precisely that new collective contract with solidarity and prosperity gains that you share risks that you have prosperity gains... is one of the reasons for the Labour Party and, I know, also for GroenLinks and the trade union movement, to step into this agreement with all those other parts. I would therefore like to ensure that the low-interest debate becomes a sort of escape route for personal retirement pots, because then we will be out of this discussion very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u124	That is why I have just indicated to Mr Van Weyenberg that I have made the agreement that I will work out two contracts. I'm gonna stick to that, too. I know all the sensitivities. In fact, I've been sitting at a table for months where sensitivities have changed. I am very aware of that. Don't worry, Mr. Van Dijk. Two other issues. Mr Van Kent has asked whether the Top Income Standards Act can also apply. He said: that law applies, of course, to health care institutions and housing corporations, but why not also to pension funds? The answer is, no, I don't think so. Pension funds are not public institutions. The social partners, employers' and employees' organisations, are on the board. They are private contracts between employees and employers and the participants. The social partners also play a crucial role in the management of a pension fund, as they are the representatives of pension fund bodies and thus influence remuneration policies. As a government, we do set frameworks in the Pension Act. However, we have included that pension funds must ensure that remuneration policies do not encourage the taking of unacceptable risks. In this sense, we have agreed through the Pension Act a framework for remuneration and bonus policies. In addition, the Pension Funds Code states that pension funds should pursue a controlled, sustainable and appropriate remuneration policy. But that's up to the social partners because it's a private contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u125	"Controlled, sustainable and appropriate," I hear the Minister say. As an example, I mention MN, the pension executive of the metal funds. Sinke also received a discharge fee of €721,000. In 2018, Van Olphen's salary at APG, ABP executive, was €595.961. I can go on like this for a long time. If they cannot set boundaries, then politics must set those limits. The same applies to the care sector. At the beginning of the beaming standard it was also said: no, it cannot apply to that. That law has then been further and further extended. I think it is high time we took a further step in that law and that we, as a policy, are going to set boundaries because they cannot. It's about employers' and employees' money. This is also a semi-public matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u126	It is indeed about money from employers and employees. That is why the pension fund boards include employers and employees: the social partners. They do the administration and the bodies and also have a accountable body. It's a private contract, so this discussion is really with the unions and the employers and not with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u127	The money also belongs to pensioners, I would add. We have seen for years that they cannot set these limits. We can see that. In my view, the Minister also agrees with the SP that it is crazy to hear from him that amounts of five tonnes are being paid at a pension fund that is also about to have to reduce pensions. In other words, is the Minister prepared, if they cannot set these limits, to work with the Chamber to ensure that these limits are set?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u128	Mr President, for the third time: no, I do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u129	Yes, you have already replied to this, which Mr Van Kent does not agree with. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u130	I'm gonna go with Mr. Van Kent here. This has been an ongoing discussion for years and a thorn in the eye of many people who get around €600 to €700 on average per month from the pension fund, while not only the people at the top, but also the people who deal with the pension money are making huge amounts of money. And it's always about bonuses, isn't it? Because the moment that a mistake is made, it is not taken away from those traders' salaries. Can the Minister at least acknowledge that it has everything from a semi-public sector, and that the risks to an executive are minimal, except that a fund at some point suppose that it goes very badly to another? But that market in the Netherlands is not that big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u131	There have been discussions within pension funds about the bonuses, for example on the use of private equity. I think that's a fair discussion. I also believe that this discussion should be conducted within the boards of pension funds and with the accountability bodies. As a result of these discussions, things have also changed. I know that a number of large funds have started to carry out things on their own that they have no longer outsourced to private equity houses with very large bonuses. I think that's wise, too. In that sense, I very much agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk. Another discussion is that I think these are public institutions that should be covered by the Standards Act. I do not agree with Mr Van Kent on this because it is really up to the social partners, the employers and the trade unions who are in the management of these funds and also on remuneration policy. If we also take that responsibility to the government, Mr Gijs van Dijk would like it, I do not do justice to the private contract that applies to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u132	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u133	In addition, I think it is extremely good that I should like to say in normative terms that, for example, such a bonus debate is being held at fund level. I think that is quite right, because it has to be justified by the participants. Then there is Mr Van der Linde's final question. How can we arrange for people to work voluntarily up to the originally higher AOW age? These are people for whom the AOW entered earlier through the pension agreement and therefore miss a few months of building up. It is already possible to work voluntarily after the AOW age. This has also been discussed in your Chamber, during the treatment of the Act temporalization increase AOW age, i.e. initially until 2024. I also indicated at that time that there are no legal obstacles to longer work, but that it is up to the social partners. There may be a retirement clause in a collective agreement or contract of employment. But in these cases, too, individual workers and employers can agree to continue working after the early age of the AOW, so that tailor-made work can be done. However, both sides must agree to continue working. There is no right to continue working. It's really an agreement between employer and employee. In fiscal terms, there is also no obstacle to build up pension after the AOW date. For example, there is room for someone to continue working part-time or work with another employer. So an early AOW date doesn't necessarily have to lead to less pension build-up. That is also the line we shared in the debate for the summer. What Mr Van der Linde asked me was whether I could still talk to the social partners about this. I would like to do so because I do see the sympathetic nature of Mr Van der Linde's question. So I'm going to discuss with the social partners whether they see room to settle this at collective agreement level or at company level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u134	I understand very well that the Minister says that it is not automatic and that it is up to the social partners. However, I find it unsatisfactory that we do have the capacity to take the whole pension system out of place here, but that we would not be able to do that. It is probably a few hundred people who really want to do so if there are minor implementation problems. I doubt for a moment whether I am going to make a motion on this because good intentions are not enough for my constituents, I shall say. So I'm just gonna grab a few more minutes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u135	I would like to make one last comment to Mr Van der Linde. I agree with his sympathetic idea. If people want to do that voluntarily to supplement their pension, I think that's a noble ambition. I also saw yesterday in the newspaper the reaction of the employers' organisations, including VNO-NCW: if you remove this, what are you going to do and what consequences does that have? I am looking for a way to meet Mr Van der Linde and to have this conversation with the social partners without going into some sort of more fundamental discussion about when the time has come to end the contract of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u136	For the sake of clarity, this is a transitional problem that has to do with this temporary freeze of the AOW age. We all have to be able to do that. Honestly, I got the acid from VNO-NCW's reaction yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u137	That's good to know about Mr Van der Linde. It is one of the parties with whom I agreed to the pension agreement: that is what I am saying. It's the largest employers' organization. Mr Van Kent says here 'for the record' 'you know what it feels like'. I do like to end with that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u138	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u139	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, one of which is the simplest and the most important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to intervene and to avoid pension reductions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Brenk, De Jong and Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-487]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u140	Mr. Chairman. We need more clarity. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that "we all have a problem in a capital-covered system if interest rates remain zero for a very long time";]] [[Whereas the Centraal Planbureau's wealthy publications play an important role in the consideration of electoral programmes but lack the chancellor's publication on pensions;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the Central Planning Office on the possibility of timely publication of the issue of pensions, including multiple cover and hybrid system options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-488]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mr. Chairman. Get rid of these discounts: that is our only request to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u142	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u143	Mr President, thank you very much. This debate has been perfect for this minister. He did not intend to do anything, and he certainly does not have to do so in the wake of this debate, because at one point, at the end of the debate, it was about everything but preventing discounts. That is scandalous in itself, because the intention of this debate was very good. We'd like those discounts to go off the table. We think this is quite possible if you adjust the calculation rate. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a real interest rate for pension funds, which immediately cancels pension discounts for millions of Dutch citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u144	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the new system or the new pension agreement. Today proves again that there is no point at all. You simply continue to work longer and discounts are not prevented. Today it shows again and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the pension agreement immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u145	Mr. Chairman. All the people who are following the debate and the people in the public gallery had expected that discounts could be avoided today. They come home from a cold carnival and are just being fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u146	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u147	I really hope the Minister comes to his senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u148	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If this debate has made one thing very clear, I believe that the urgency surrounding pensions, possible pension reductions and their prevention is incredibly great. I think it's felt all over this room. That's a good thing. It is also positive, I think, that the Minister has made it very clear in his response that he wants to table with the pension funds in the very short term to discuss how discounts can be prevented and what is possible. I would like to thank him for that. In order to help him or give him an extra push, Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA will also be presenting a motion on our behalf which calls for different scenarios to be worked out. On this basis, as a Chamber, we can discuss this subject further. I would like it very much if we had those scenarios before 16 October, because then there is a general discussion on pension issues. It would be nice if we could, because then we really have plenty of time to do something with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u150	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u151	Mr. Chairman. After years of negotiation and action by the trade unions, there was finally a pension agreement, with a perspective for a pension system collectively, to emphasize that................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But that's now threatened by massive discounts. One of the agreements we made before the summer was to avoid these discounts as much as possible. And to remind the cabinet and put it to work, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas you want to be sure of a relaxed old age;]] [[noting that there is currently an unprecedented economic situation with low and possibly even negative interest rates;]] [[whereas the pension agreement has agreed that the prospect of an indexed pension is more likely;]] [[calls on the Government to avoid unnecessary reductions in pensions and to develop action prospects as soon as possible, taking into account the sustainability of the system in the short and long term and at least sending it to the Chamber for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u152	This motion sounds good to me. I have one question about sustainability. It's in the motion. Does Mr Gijs van Dijk mean that not only financially, but certainly also in terms of confidence, such as the generation balance? Because that also seems to me to be an important condition in the cabinet's search.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u153	That's a fair question. Of course, the concerns surrounding the pension are with pensioners who have been thinking for years and who may even have been reduced or reduced. That's where the big concerns lie. But these concerns are also with the young people, who always ask the question: is there a pension for me later? That is the balance that we have sought in this new collective system, in which young people have a good perspective on a good pension and there is more indexing for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u156	I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The magic word was "unnecessary shorting," "unnecessary discounts." Here's what I'm asking the Minister. If I understand correctly, all the funds that come under 100% must be cut short, that there is agreement, and that this minister will take care of it. The question is: is that with or without the advice of the Dijsselbloem Commission? And if that is not the case, is this Minister going to ask for a new opinion? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension reductions threaten 8 million people;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the accounting rules in order to avoid reductions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow pension funds not to carry out any pension reductions pending the completion of the pension agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sufficient time should be taken to draw up the pension agreement;]] [[calls on the government to give pension funds an additional two years to meet the minimum capital requirement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension fund directors take home rewards far beyond the beaming standard;]] [[calls on the Government to bring directors of pension funds and pension administrators under the Standards Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-492]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-493]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-494]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-495]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u158	Well, just in case, that one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in a number of collective agreements the AOW age is linked to compulsory retirement;]] [[noting that the freezing of the AOW age for a number of older workers would result in lower pension levels;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, either through transitional law or through consultation with the social partners, that this group of workers can continue to work voluntarily until the original AOW date,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Linde, Mr Slootweg, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-496]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u159	We have argued for this before. My question is whether, as a co-signator, I can be included in that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u160	Sure, sure, and I'm sorry I didn't offer you that. Can it be adjusted accordingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u161	Well, that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u162	Fine. When we talk about pensions, we throw a whole bunch of abracadabra over the people listening in. And sometimes that's inevitable. Technical terms, all kinds of interests of trade unions and employers' clubs. Let's keep in mind that this is about the 69-year-old lady, who wants to know what this means to her, all the Hague stuff, and for the 64-year-old gentleman, who wants to know how much longer he has to work. Those people are the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u163	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have signed two motions: the motion that Mr Van der Linde has just tabled and the motion that Mr Slootweg is about to table, which I believe is being signed very widely, on the study of how to deal with the permanent low-interest environment in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u165	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u166	Mr. Chairman. I heard the Minister say he's going to have a long conversation to see what we're gonna do next. However, I would like to stress once again that the pension agreement has meant that we have significantly reduced and reduced the chances and potential size of pension reductions if this is to happen. I think it's important to say that again here. That doesn't mean you're gonna stop thinking now. I myself asked a question about the need for own funds and the recovery plans. I thank the Minister for taking this actively with him in the search. Mr. Chairman. For my group, we will work with two contracts and with a risk-free interest rate, also an important agreement in the pension agreement. But the search is not silent, especially in the short term, and I like to hear what comes out of it. This is very important for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u167	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I do indeed have one motion, with which I would just like to give a little more direction to the investigation, so that that is also very clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the current financial review framework, a pension fund must have more than €105 in cash in order to receive a nominal payment of €100 over 10 years;]] [[considers that negative interest rates have undesirable effects on the economy, including the housing market and pension system;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[examine whether a funded pension system is sustainable if the interest rate curve (up to 10 years) is longer at 0% or below;]] [[seek advice from independent experts, e.g. CPB and DNB, to consider how pensions should be financed at negative interest rates or 0% interest rates and what that means for supervision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Slootweg, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Van der Linde, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Stoffer, Mr Smeulders, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Weyenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-497]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u169	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u170	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the members of the House of Representatives for their contribution in second term. Before I go into the motions, I would like to return to Mrs Van Brenk's request concerning the documents of Mr Pierik and the VCP. I will return to your Chamber before the AO on 16 October, so that we can have a good debate on it. The time is now a little short to understand all these figures. So I would like to pledge that for the AO of 16 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u171	An AO is a general consultation. This is a consultation that is taking place in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u172	Sorry, Chairman, I mean a general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u173	This has quite an impact, because it is actually stated that this calculation example could lead to 19% pension reduction within the pension agreement. If we were not faced with a pension agreement, it would be "only" 15%. So it's really dramatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u174	It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u175	No, it's not the other way around. That is why it is important for it to come some time before the consultation, so that we can also examine your answer. Is that gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u176	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u177	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u178	I don't think there's any more questions. Then I'll move on to the motions. Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 487 genericly calls for the prevention of discounts. I just told you, I can't promise that. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, we made an agreement in the pension agreement to mitigate the "minimum required equity" discount. I'm gonna talk to the sector in the next few days, but I'm gonna have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 488 calls on the Government to consult with the Central Planning Office on the possibility of timely "chance" publication. That has a bit of an overlap with Mr Slootweg's motion. I'll give the motion judgment room. I'm gonna go over that and see if it's possible. I am not making a commitment, because the Central Planning Office is, of course, independent. But I'd like to give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr De Jong's 489 concerns the calculation rate. We've had discussions about that before. We don't agree on that. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 489. The motion in part No. 490 calls on the government to withdraw the pension agreement immediately. I wasn't going to. I'd advise against that motion, too. The motion in part No. 491 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smulders and Mr Stoffer, on the mapping of the scenarios relating to the perspectives of action, it is formulated in the motion and asks the government to send that information to the Chamber at least for the budgetary treatment of SZW. Mr Smulders asked whether this could already be done before the AA, but the motion states "for the budget debate." It doesn't make much sense to send the information before the AO, because the moment of measurement eventually lies towards the end of the year. I would, however, like to make a commitment to the budgetary procedure. That's why I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. I would add, however, that we need to look at the broad sustainability, at the division between generations, at the financial sustainability and that kind of thing. But I'm giving the motion judgment room. I will come back to that for the budget. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent asked the government to amend the accounting rules. You know the cabinet's point of view. I'm dissuading the motion. Although the wording "calculation rules" is somewhat broader...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u179	That's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u180	That's how you are. That's how I know Mr. Van Kent. But what comes from below in terms of message, we do not agree on that. So dissuade it. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent asked the government to allow pension funds to avoid any reduction in pensions pending the completion of the pension agreement. I must also advise against that motion. The motion in part No. 494 calls on the government to give pension funds two years more time to meet the requirement of minimum own funds. Once again, I will be consulting with the sector in the coming period, both on the MVEV debate and on the VEV discussion, but I must advise against this wording. The motion in part No. Mr van Kent's 495 is about bringing pension funds under the WNT. We have just had a wide-ranging debate on this in the event of interruption. I'd like to dissuade them, too. The motion in part No. Mr Van der Linde asked the government, either through transitional law or through consultation with the social partners, to ensure that this group of workers could continue to work on a voluntary basis. This motion was signed by members Van der Linde, Slootweg, Van Weyenberg and Van Brenk. As I have just indicated, there is no right to continue working. At the same time, I find the direction sympathetic. I cannot promise that I will introduce this right, but I will go in consultation with the social partners to settle this. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that I am going to work towards the social partners in order to bring this issue to the fore and resolve it, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. If it is really a result obligation, I must discourage the motion, because I cannot live up to that. I want to make an effort. Then I'll give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u181	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u182	He'll do it or he won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u183	Oh, gross, chairman, I'll water down the motion. Then it's just good intentions. I don't feel much like that. I also understand the Minister's problem. Then let me do it this way. I'm gonna hold the motion and see if the Minister comes up with something nice. Then we leave the motion hanging over the market and the Minister also has a means of pressure to get everyone to do so. Do you think that's a good idea, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u184	I think that's very good. The fewer motions the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u185	Some kind of leverage towards VNO-NCW? That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u186	At the request of Mr Van der Linde, I propose his motion (3243), No. 496). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u187	The motion-Slootweg c.s. in piece No. 497 is so widely signed: I think there are 130 seats below it. I'd fight you a little rubbert, but I'm not gonna do that. Judgment Room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u188	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-11.u189	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
