ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is a short third term of the General Financial Reviews. I understand that Mr Koffeman wishes to amend his motion under letter W, but we are still waiting for the Minister, so I shall suspend the sitting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber. Once again, I understand that Mr Koffeman wishes to amend his motion under letter W and that Mr Van Rooijen wishes to amend his motion under letter AA. To this end, I reopen the General Financial Reviews for a short third term. Following this third deadline, the vote will take place on the amended motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Research carried out by the Central Bureau of Statistics has shown that livestock farms emit up to three times as much nitrogen as previously assumed. I had asked in my motion to stop granting subsidies for methods that were unproven workable. I had given a few specific examples. I have omitted it in this amended motion, so that the motion becomes suitable for everyone to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u4	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u5	The Koffeman c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to research carried out by the Central Bureau of Statistics, Dutch farmers emit up to three times as much nitrogen as previously assumed;]] [[Whereas, according to this study, so-called low-emission stables do not or hardly contribute to the reduction of emissions from these stables due to malfunctioning or malfunctioning environmental systems;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude from aid measures to combat the nitrogen crisis symptom reduction of unproven quality and to promote a warm clean-up of livestock farming with a view to a permanent reduction in the number of animals kept,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Kox, Mr Gerkens and Mr Kluit.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-AD]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to alter the previously filed motion under 35300-AA, which sounds rather royal. I'll hand it over to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u7	The motion-Van Rooijen c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas low interest rates seriously disrupt the construction of young people's pensions and do not index or threaten to reduce the pensions of millions of older people;]] [[Whereas, in recent years, accounting rates have fallen far short of the actual returns of pension funds on average;]] [[Whereas the low interest rate is partly due to the ECB's exceptional monetary policy;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee of experts for the purposes of the new pension system with the task of examining a prudent accounting rate methodology, partly in line with risk-free interest rates and partly taking into account the actual returns of pension funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-AE]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to be here three Tuesdays in a row. I'd almost say it feels like old times. Thank you to Mr Koffeman for adjusting his motion. He has removed a piece from it, namely the piece that begins with "like" and ends with "feed." That'll improve the motion, but I still have to dissuade her. Given the debate and everything the Minister of LNV said about it, that can't be a surprise. The cabinet has repeatedly said what I said in the debate, namely that there are no taboos. The livestock is not taboo either. However, first we want to have talks with field parties, provinces, municipalities, construction, farmers and so on. Then we want to commit to the final package. That is why I must also discourage the improved version of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u9	I welcome the fact that the Minister thinks it is a great improvement. Well, I'd like to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u10	I wouldn't have used the word "whole." I called it "an improvement."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u11	Okay. Well, okay. You should always take an extra meter where you can. The Minister says that there are no taboos, but it should not be difficult for the cabinet to say a taboo on subsidies on unproven measures, i.e. measures of unproven quality? That's all this motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u12	Yes, but I'm concerned about the second part of the motion. Moreover, what is unproven can still be proven. So it is really wise to investigate that and then come to a judgment. It does not happen very often, but perhaps the cabinet can even surprise Mr Koffeman in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u13	I sincerely hope so. And it's certainly true that what hasn't been proven can still be proven, but I wouldn't expect you to start subsidising things that still have to be proven. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u14	No, but we have discussed a number of times that there are no taboos for the cabinet on this issue. I repeat. This also means that the subject on which Mr Koffeman emphasizes from his political point of view, which is understandable, is not subject to taboos. I find it so prudent and reasonable, from the Minister of LNV and the Cabinet as a whole, to really take a moment and do this carefully. This is an extremely topical and extremely important subject, but it is also a flammable one. That is why I would really ask Mr Koffeman to withdraw from this motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u15	I am very sorry about that, because often it is precisely about the taboo that prevails when people say that there are no taboos. It seems that this sector, which is the largest contributor, is always left out of the scope of the measures now proposed. That's what this motion says. I would therefore like to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u16	Of course, that is entirely up to Mr Koffeman, but still: there is an implicit reproach in it if the taboo is correct that there are no taboos. I would therefore like to refer to the government agreement, in which the cabinet wrote that we are doing a warm clean-up of pig farms and that we have released EUR 200 million for this purpose. This shows that this particular issue is not really a taboo for the cabinet either. Take your time and consider everything is wise here. I would like to make a comment on Mr Van Rooijen's amendment. That is where the complication arises that I now hear about Mr Van Rooijen's amended motion and that I also understand that the Minister for Social Affairs sent a letter today. My suspicion is that he assumes that sending the letter has met enough of what has been exchanged in the debate. So if I have to give an opinion on that right now... I would ask Mr Van Rooijen to hold the motion for a second week, because I cannot at the moment respond to a letter from the Minister of SZW which I have not seen and a motion that has been amended. If Mr. van Rooijen is persisting, I must discourage the motion. But that may not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u17	I have every sympathy for the Secretary of State's exhortation. It's all last minute, but that's because the Minister's letter after a week's arrival only became us this morning. I have thought that a small addition should be made, also in consultation with co-signators. It's not a big addition. It now says: "Requests the government with a view to the new system." So 'in view of the new system' has been added, because otherwise some in this Chamber might have doubts, because they think it could also refer to the current system which exists today. That lack of clarity has been removed. I will seriously consider the Minister's request. I'm leaning towards holding the motion. But perhaps the Minister would like to respond first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u18	I'd love to. Mr Van Rooijen says that he only adapted a little bit to the motion that the cabinet dissuaded two weeks ago. This is not automatically a source of much greater joy. However, I want to do justice to the motion, I want to do justice to the adaptation and I want to do justice to the letter sent by Minister Koolmees. So perhaps Mr Van Rooijen will give the cabinet the opportunity to review the amended motion and then resume the consultation with the Chamber. I would like to come again next week, of course, but perhaps the Minister for Social Affairs himself does not want to miss that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u19	I would be extremely pleased if the Minister would come to the Chamber one more time and I do not want to do that to him in itself. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u20	At the request of Mr Van Rooijen, I propose that his amended motion (35300, letter AE, was letter AA) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u21	Thank you. Thank you to Mr Van Rooijen. Then, on behalf of the government, I have said everything about the Financial Reviews, apart from the piece that we will be getting back next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-7.u22	Thank you, Minister.
