ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on an Amsterdam school which would have been influenced by jihadists. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. We have 12 speakers. Speaking time is exactly five minutes. I would like to propose that two interruptions be allowed in the first period. I will begin with Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. What can you do if there are signs that students are being indoctrinated, children are being given anti-democratic education and the rule of law is being undermined? This question is now before the Amsterdam City Council and also with the ministers present here. That question is also haunted by my mind, because the coverage of the AIVD about the Haga Lyceum in Amsterdam is not easy. If the AIVD gets signals about anti-democratic behaviour, then we have to take this extremely seriously. If there are ideas to dedicate half of the teaching program to a radical movement within Islam, that is unacceptable for GroenLinks. At the same time, this debate remains uncomfortable. A criminal investigation could give more clarity, but yesterday the mayor of Amsterdam referred to the minister when he asked questions about this. So we are happy to refer the matter to the Minister of Justice and Security. What's the latest? Mr. Chairman. We understand the gap. In the Netherlands, freedom of education is a high priority and there are no legal possibilities to intervene in the event of signs of abuses. That is why the Amsterdam College appreciates it so that it can come out before the registration period for new students is closed. Mr. Chairman. The most important question in this debate is how we guarantee the safety, well-being and development of pupils. What is happening to ensure the safety and development of these pupils in the broad sense of the word? From that point of view alone, the school board should quit. The school board has a duty to ensure a safe environment for students, but it does not. In fact, this administration is responsible for violating this legal obligation. GroenLinks supports the city council of Amsterdam, which has summoned the school board to quit. We ask the Ministers to follow this example. Their concerns are loud and clear, but have they also taken action and urged the administration to resign, and if not, when are they going to do so? Or is the Minister of Education prepared to use his designation power? In spite of the freedom of education, the Minister of Education may instruct the Supervisory Board to seek new governance. Has this process already started? Or can the Minister with the Social Security Law in schools in hand do something against the board? Mr. Chairman. In the interests of children, clarity is needed in the short term. What's the timeline now? What will happen in the next few days and in the next few weeks? When will we be clear about the nature of the signals? When will the studies of the educational inspection become public? Weren't there signals that could be shared before? In the letter we received, I read that leading people would be in contact with a terrorist group between 2009 and 2012. So that was ten years ago, before the foundation of this school. Were these guidance people involved in the foundation of the school, and if so, how can these people start a school? Is it true that the Ministry was already informed by mid-January? Then why did the education inspection not visit until 6 March unannounced? What was the initial opinion of the inspection of this school? This report hasn't been made public, but it's all over the place. We understand that it is a very positive report and that the inspection even pays compliments. That's right, we ask the Minister of Education. If so, has the inspection not paid attention or is there really nothing wrong with the quality of education? If the AIVD cannot disclose their findings, the CTIVD can, say the supervisor of the AIVD, look at this case. I understand very well that we are not talking about the CTIVD agenda, but this is a very complex case because of education legislation. It therefore seems to us to be a very interesting case for our security services. Does the Minister of JenV share that view? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks believes, especially in a debate in which emotions get loose so quickly, that it is important that we get the facts on the table as soon as possible. This debate is about the possible undermining of the rule of law through our education, the sector that you can see as the roots of the rule of law. I can therefore imagine that we will be back here once all the investigations have been completed. Finally, Mr President. My group is not a fan of special education, whether strictly reformative or strictly Islamic. GroenLinks likes students from different environments and backgrounds to meet in the classroom and not grow up in their own bubble, because we are together in society. Does the Minister for Education agree with GroenLinks that Article 23 needs to be modernised in order to prevent inequality of opportunity and segregation, and to better establish that education must contribute to democratic education and citizenship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. Mr Rog has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	I wanted to talk to Mrs Westerveld about another law, namely the Civil Code 2:20. This cabinet has stated in the government agreement that we want to broaden it in order to ensure that anti-democratic radical forces can be limited. How does GroenLinks feel about that now? You were always very reluctant about that. Have you changed your mind about this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	As I have already said in my speech, we understand the gap we are in with this case. Because we have enshrined the freedom of education well in the Constitution, it is very difficult to intervene if there are things in schools that really give us a stomachache. That is why we find it very interesting to look at legal possibilities. If that goes through education legislation, then we are open to it. When it comes to civil code 2:20, which Mr Rog refers to, I do not know the precise proposals, but I certainly find it interesting to look at them very carefully in the light of this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	I would like to touch on Mrs Westerveld's final remark. On the one hand, she confesses with her mouth the freedom of education as a great asset. At the same time, she makes a warm plea in the sense that it should all be a kind of state school. Does Mrs Westerveld think that the special schools we know in our system do not contribute sufficiently to the integration, involvement and construction of society? Do those special schools fail to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	I am not saying that special schools are inadequate when it comes to issues such as integration. I'll just say that we're gonna let students grow up separated from each other by special schools. This is not always the best in terms of equality of opportunity. That is why GroenLinks is very clear in the electoral programme and we very much want to modernise Article 23 and see if this article does not increase the odds gap. We want students to grow up together as much as they can and not live in their own bubble, not even in school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mrs Westerveld is aware of the studies that show that education is not the cause of segregation, but that these are many other factors, such as housing policies and housing policies. That can't solve education, can it? So is there no reason to use an incident like this to question Article 23 for the umpteenth time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	We do not use incidents to question this article. We are very clear in this and we also have in our electoral programme that we want to modernise this article, without, by the way, failing to respect the freedom of education, which is very important. Only we see that Article 23 is sometimes used to do things that we do not support. When it comes to segregation, inequality of opportunity and growing up different from each other, we know very well that different neighbourhoods in a city are often the cause of children growing up in a very different way. But education can also contribute to this, because we have different schools, because people are inclined to send their children to school in their own bubble, to put it mildly. We're not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	Yes. Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	Can I add one more sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	Okay. We're not in favour of that. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	Period. That's right. Mr. Rudmer... Yes. Mr. Bishop, second interruption. We're just getting started. You don't? Then I give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks has made a number of comments about the education inspection and the report that has not yet been made public and which probably contains a number of things that are at least confusing when you look at what is going on at the school and how the inspection might have looked at them. Does Mrs Westerveld agree with the VVD that at the time when the inspection is not allowed to enter the school or when the work of the inspection is made impossible by the school, which should already be a reason to close the school?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	I find it difficult to assess exactly what has happened here and how often it is made impossible for the inspection to do its job. When I read the letters, I see that the inspection was hampered to follow a lesson. I don't know how often that happens. The school says, "The class dropped out by accident." I can't judge exactly what was going on. But I do think that the ministers are also very clear in their letters that the inspection should be able to carry out its work unhindered and that we should be very strict on that. That's what the minister was in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	It's not specifically about this case. I mean it more generally. At the moment when the work of the inspection at a school is not made possible because access is refused or because the inspection is allowed in the school but then cannot carry out its work, then I am not referring specifically to the Cornelius Haga Lyceum......................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	That is what Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD says, but at the moment, according to the legislation, that is no reason to close a school. If he wants to make proposals for that, I am very curious. We can all call for the school to be closed, but at the moment, according to legislation, this is not possible, even if the inspection is hampered by a school visit. I am very curious to see whether proposals will follow. We will, of course, look into this with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	I'm so used to Mrs Westerveld always having warm words for the teachers. Does she realize that her comment on special education and on a bubble in fact puts two thirds of all teachers in the Netherlands in the corner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	I do not agree with this point at all. We have talked about special education and about equality of opportunity. We have also talked about the fact that separating groups of children from school can contribute to inequality. That does not say anything about the quality of the teachers and that does not say anything about the quality of the school. That only says something about the choices parents make for their children. That is what we are saying: that can increase the chances of inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	I hear Mrs Westerveld say that two thirds of teachers in the Netherlands create their own bubble and that that is bad for children. Is she aware of the fact that all studies show that diversity in special schools is as great as in public schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'm not saying teachers create bubbles. I am just saying that it is important for GroenLinks that children grow up together as much as possible and go to school together. We're trying to make that possible as a government. I also indicated that we are in favour of modernising Article 23, precisely in order to increase the equality of children in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All the parties who love Islam, from the VVD to the SP and everyone in between, were eager to debate today about the Islamic school in Amsterdam, Cornelius Haga. Do you think there might be an election coming up? Maybe. Mr. Chairman. We have given the solution to the problems of other parties in this area so many times, but the Chamber would not listen. My colleagues Bertema, Wilders and I have already tabled a large number of motions to ban Islamic education or to get Islamic education out of the Constitution because Islam is not a religion but a totalitarian ideology. We never found hearing in this Chamber or in a government. In addition, it is not just about Islamic education. This is not an education debate, it is a debate on society. It's about Islam as a whole. Every society where Islam has ever entered or continues to do so will eventually perish. Well, that's what history has shown. And in this case, results from the past provide one hundred percent guarantee for the future, also for our beautiful Netherlands, unless all those politically correct politicians put aside their beaten up righteousness of election time and listen to the PVV once. Support the Wilders Initiative Act and myself that forbids Islamic expressions such as schools and mosques, so I call on them. Mr. Chairman. For the years of Islamic mass immigration in the Netherlands, our country was a wonderful country. Of course, there were problems. But we could handle it together. Islam didn't enrich our country after that. Social and physical safety is increasingly declining especially for women and homosexuals. Our social security system is being robbed. Our social rental homes are no longer for Dutch people and freedom of expression is under attack, all this time since mass immigration. And now, today, it's education's turn. Islamic education is abusing our Constitution. Everyone's been watching it for years, but they're not doing anything. A question to the rulers: would they approve schools with a national-socialist, fascist or other collectivist basis? Because Islam is collectivist in nature. Islam is anti-freedom, anti-woman, anti-lhgbti, anti-progress, anti-western, anti-Jewish, anti-Christian, anti-individual and anti-individual development, anti-self-determination, anti-free speech, anti-all that our free Western society stands for. A school that calls itself Islamic is, too. Each Islamic school gives these principles to its students, otherwise it will not be Islamic. The problem with the Amsterdam school is not solved with this week's bogus movements and the proposed U-turn constructions. Tackling Salafism is such a diversion, such a U-turn. But a salafist is nothing but a Muslim in a hurry. And jihad is not a terror that fits Western definitions. It is an Islamic doctrine aimed at conquest, Islamization and therefore submission. A jihadist is a righteous Muslim with an education, a pen, a smooth chat and/or a murder weapon who knows what the purpose of Islam is and acts excellently towards it. A jihadist can be a salafist, but also the other way around. The NCTV is reluctantly moving in this direction and says that the boundaries between jihadism and salafism are fading. Does the Cabinet share that report? As far as I am concerned, that would make sense, because the NCTV has to take one more step, namely the step that they say it's all about doing Islam. Let us not forget that the Netherlands knows hundreds of jihadists and thousands of sympathizers of the jihad, who according to the services can also quickly develop into a jihadist. Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte and Mayor Halsema have called on parents to remove their children from that school, which Cornelius Haga, and to withdraw their registrations. That's what they did last week. How many parents have responded to that at this time? I'd like to have the exact number. We saw in the media that there was more support for the school. On that basis, we can ask how many additional enrolments there have been at that school. When the inspection during a visit to the school was confronted with less pleasant behaviour by the staff, let me put it this way if I had the extractor from the letter from the Minister, what exactly happened then? Has violence been used, or has it been threatened? Here too, full openness and clarity fit in. Finally, Mr President. This school is just one tactic in the Islamic strategy of conquest and submission, or jihad. Jihad is 100% Islam and Islam is the problem. We have only one thing to do: we must ban Islamic expressions such as schools and mosques. I can assume from the cabinet that they will therefore embrace our initiative law, allowing all Islamic schools to be closed down. I'd like a reaction to that. I'll leave it at that for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	It's like Real Madrid. You're gonna let the first storm over you for a second. Turns out that's not much. Then I'm gonna go to the Interrupt Microphone. Is Mr De Graaf familiar with how things are now arranged in Rotterdam, at the Avicenna College? Has Mr De Graaf taken note of how fine education is there, how well that is going, and how well it is going in some other Islamic schools? How does he feel about that? Do they all have to be closed, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	Then Mr Van Meenen did not listen to my speech. The Avicenna has naturally grown on the ruins of the Ibn Ghaldoun. It is supported by another form of education. It's also in a wing of another school, if I understand correctly. I just gave my opinion on Islamic education and what is Islamic education. That supports all the principles of Islam, and Islam, for example, is anti-lgbti and anti-freedom of speech. I just explained it all to you. These are all things that Mr Van Meenen should see, because his party seems to be so in favour of freedom of speech even though, when it comes to fake news, you don't know it with D66, because that is what they create most themselves. But they seem to be for freedom of speech. They seem to be pro-lhgbti. They seem to be pro all kinds of freedoms. And they're being attacked by Islam. So I expect Mr Van Meenen here next to me to say 'hey, De Graaf, I support you' instead of asking such a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	I will make my own contribution in a moment, rather than Mr De Graaf filling it out for me. But D66 does indeed attach great importance to freedoms. That is why we think it is very dangerous, as the Freedom Party does not give a damn about throwing freedoms in the trash if there is an obvious violation of that freedom, something you never intended to achieve with that freedom. That's what's going on here. Does Mr De Graaf really think that if there is such a serious incident, we should take away the freedom to set up a school in this country from an entire population?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	I've been clear about that. You must exclude Islamic education from our constitutional principles, because that is precisely how you can maintain Article 23 of the Constitution. Then you protect Article 23 of the Constitution. Then you protect our way of living together. Then you protect the Netherlands as an open and beautiful society, in which we deal with each other in a fair, western way, based on Jewish-Christian and humanist traditions and values. Then you will be able to prevent and prevent the attacks that are being carried out from Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	Finally, what I want to say is that Islamic education is precisely its erosion. We all shouldn't let that happen. That's why I just said: I expect Mr Van Meenen next to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	Your second interruption, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	Oh, no, Mr. Chairman. Well, forget it, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	Okay. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. Where the Dutch military in Afghanistan fought for years against jihadists who violently subjugated the Afghan people to their totalitarian ideology, we are now faced in our own Netherlands with a school whose administration has links with a terrorist, jihadist group. The AIVD warns against anti-democratic and anti-integrative behaviour of guidance people in the school. The education inspection was countered and drowned out. Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants to protect the children who are still in this school from antidemocratic, jihadistic ideas. No child should be exposed to school administrators or educational staff who are turning against our democratic rule of law. Whether you are at a public, Christian, Islamic or general special school, you are equipped with inclusiveness, participation in our open, democratic society. The CDA stands for freedom of education, but this fundamental right must never be used to undermine the rule of law. That is also why we agreed in the government agreement that Article 2:20 of the Civil Code should be extended. And that is why we clarify the citizenship mission in education. It is for this reason that we are giving the educational inspection a hand in order to be able to maintain even before a school is set up. I would ask the Ministers if these legislative amendments could come to the Chamber as a matter of urgency so that we do not waste any more time to intervene. Mr. Chairman. This school started when no one actually wanted it there. That was also the reason why former Secretary of State Dekker promised that the education inspection would be on top of it from day one. The CDA has a number of pressing questions about the role of that inspection. Is it true that within three months of the start, the board did not meet all the requirements, as required by law? If so, why didn't we proceed with a funding sanction? Why wasn't there any immediate intervention when the education inspection was obstructed in her work? How is it possible that the inspection in the draft report is true of administrative transparency, while the administration has done everything in its power to stop the investigation? Can the Minister give an indication to the board if the inspection is hindered? Mr. Chairman. Hasn't the education inspector been naive? That question was asked yesterday in EenVandaag to the former director of the forerunner of this school. The praiseworthy draft report of the inspection praised the school's open attitude towards society, but the question that lingers is whether this has actually been observed. Or was this just the paper reality? How can this be reconciled with the AIVD's warning, which the school sees as a potential threat to national security? Mr. Chairman. At present, the minister of primary education and secondary education has no designation power if the director behaves socially irresponsible. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that this is an omission, as is the absence of the possibility to suspend a director? Mr. Chairman. This school will close the doors. However, the director has already threatened to continue the school as a private initiative in this case. Is it true that, in that situation, the school enjoys more freedom in terms of carrying out the citizenship mission? In this case, how does inspection control relate to publicly funded schools? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has confidence in the legislative adjustments announced in the coalition agreement and urges the Minister to implement quickly. The question that the CDA is currently dealing with is whether the school can be closed on the basis of existing laws and regulations. If the school is actually a potential threat to national security, is it not possible to intervene in the fight against terrorism through Article 2:20 of the Civil Code or the Temporary Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	Have you finished your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	Then Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yeah, it's weird that this school even got there. Now we are talking about measures to prevent this from happening in the future, but of course it should have been done a long time ago. I hope that Mr Rog agrees with me. The coalition parties now give high priority to Article 2:20 of the Civil Code. I see this with interest, but what if the special school, which Mr Rog is so pleased with from Article 23 of the Constitution, could say, on the basis of that particularity, that you cannot close our school on the basis of Article 2:20 of the Civil Code? Are you still firmly behind this so-called freedom of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	This is precisely why we have all tried to achieve this, and that is why I am telling Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP that this school would not be there. It could've been done through the regulations. This school is the reason why, in the government agreement, we agreed not only on Article 2:20 of the Civil Code but also on the fulfilment of the citizenship mandate and stricter inspection at the front when setting up a school. I say to you frank and free: this school is the reason why we made these agreements in the coalition agreement. I understand from the ministers' letters that they have set the law in motion. That's a good thing. As far as I'm concerned, this is coming to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	Muscle language from the CDA, but I'm really skeptical when I read the government letter. This Citizenship Act and this New Schools Act are gonna take years. Moreover, a school such as the school we are talking about today can of course, on paper, perfectly fulfil that citizenship mission. You saw it yourself: we're being set up in front of us. The board plays nice weather outwards and meanwhile radical education is given in the classroom, jihadistic education. How are you gonna stop this school with that Citizenship Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	First of all, I say in my contribution that I am also looking for an extension of the Minister's powers of designation. That could be a solution. I think Mr Van Dijk and I are pulling on the same side of the rope right now. He doesn't want freedom of education at all. I would like to, but for all children and with the safety that they are not exposed to antidemocratic ideas. With the changes announced in the coalition agreement and with the designation I am advocating here, I assume that there will be enough for this school to finally close its doors. I think that is exactly what Mr Jasper van Dijk wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	I would like to inform Mr Jasper van Dijk that we have agreed to allow two interruptions and that this is his second interruption. Then I will go to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. All children in the Netherlands are entitled to good education in a safe environment, in a safe school. The signals around the Haga Lyceum are sufficient for D66 to say that this school is completely inadequate in fulfilling that task. This school should never have been there and in the interests of the children it should close as soon as possible, especially as long as these drivers are in office. Unfortunately, at the moment there is no legal means to do so. That's why it's a good thing we've decided to change the law before. Mr. Chairman. When this school was founded, there were already great concerns. Previously, directors had made extremist statements. D66 therefore finds it absurd that these drivers have been able to start a school again. Of all the people who come into contact with young people, we require an explanation of the behaviour, but the founders of schools seem to have free rein. I'd like a response from the Minister. The school would be under tighter supervision immediately after the start, as the Secretary of State told us at the time. This does not seem to be the case from the facts surrounding the conduct of the inspection. My question to the Minister is: how about this? Following the Nashville signing by an educational director, D66 has already proposed that the legal obligation for social responsibility should also apply to educational administrators in the foundational education system. At present this obligation already exists in higher education. And as soon as a director makes statements that appear to be contrary to the core values of the Dutch democratic rule of law, an independent committee will judge, after which the minister may draw conclusions. Is the Minister prepared to include a similar article in the Primary Education Act and the Secondary Education Act? Mr. Chairman. At the moment, we are examining the quality and financial situation, and whether the school is actually promoting ideas that are at odds with the core values of the Dutch democratic rule of law. Can the Minister confirm that the inspection has been refused access on previous visits and that the drivers have intimidated the inspection? Does the Minister agree with D66 that if that happens, if society loses sight of a school and thereby of the children in that school, and that this includes appropriate and firm consequences? Mr. Chairman. The AIVD signals "anti-democratic and anti-integrative behaviour" of certain guidance people in the school. They want to dedicate half of the curriculum to the salafistic doctrine of religion and bring students outside the classroom under that sphere of influence, thus acting contrary to the antiradicalisation strategy. In addition, religious lessons were cancelled during the inspection visit. Are these not enough signals in themselves for the Minister and the inspection to make a negative assessment of quality? Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, the security approach is targeted locally. In municipalities, police, schools, youth care, churches and mosques work together to identify and assist young people at an early stage who are at risk of getting on the wrong path. This approach appears to be very effective. For other European countries, the Netherlands is an example. It is precisely the school that is an essential link in this local approach, provided it makes an active contribution to this, of course. Can the Ministers explain how this school was set up in this local context? Was the school willing to actively contribute to the detection of criminal behavior or radical thought? Mr. Chairman. Children have the right to the best education in a safe environment. That always comes first for D66. I think we should get a better grip on this as a government. Freedom of education is not a free pass for bad or unsafe education. I mentioned the Avicenna College in Rotterdam just a moment ago in an interruption. This shows that it can do very well: to provide Islamic education and at the same time embrace the core values of the Dutch democratic rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. This school should never have come. From day one, there were major objections. Nevertheless, the most skilful directors have been able to continue their formation. Last week, we received revelations from the secret service: links with a terrorist organization, salafistic influences and anti-democratic education. To the extent of disaster, the inspection was not allowed to control. That's too crazy for words. These drivers need to be dealt with hard. But unfortunately, it can't be. The school can't be closed either. Students and parents can only be warned. On Tuesday we saw a minister with his hands behind his back in Question Time. We have freedom of education: Article 23 of the Constitution. So many abuses, and then standing empty-handed? That could put students at risk. The question is therefore: what is the Minister going to do to solve this? He's coming up with a law on the foundation of new schools. But it's about new schools, not this school. He's coming up with a law on citizenship in education. Very nice, but that's not gonna help to deal with these drivers either. The school can put anything on paper and then continue in the classroom with antidemocratic education. We are dealing with a two-faced board. Outside they play nice weather, but in class it's antidemocratic education. That is why the inspection was not allowed to visit unexpectedly. This can't be happening. You must no longer let these troublemakers squeal you. So the Minister remains empty-handed. More needs to be done. A school must be able to close, bad drivers must be able to fire and we must modernise Article 23, if possible within existing legislation, because it will not take so long. First point. Make sure you can close schools and fire bad drivers. There are all kinds of laws that provide clues. That's what we see in the letter that came today. For example, it can be done in the Secondary Education Act, Article 103g. This will enable drivers to be dealt with who are guilty of malpractice, intimidation and negligence. This could include grounds for dismissal, such as anti-democratic education and education that hinder integration, so-called anti-integrative education. I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice what is going on with the Administrative and Supervisory Act on legal persons, because it also allows the dismissal of abusive directors. Then there is the modernisation of Article 23 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	But I'll go to Mr Bruins first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr Jasper van Dijk called for schools to be more easily closed. I think it is just as difficult to close a public school as a special school in practice, now that most public schools are also covered by a foundation board. Can I assume that Mr Van Dijk thinks that it should apply to both public and special schools that you should be able to intervene earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	Of course. It is crazy that everyone here speaks shame of the situation, but that everyone is also standing with their hands behind their backs. That needs to change quickly. Mr. Chairman. This has to do with our education system, also known as Article 23. And that article wasn't invented by the SP, I say a plethora. It dates back to 1917 and then had its value. Times have changed by now. The article offers the possibility of setting up schools that isolate themselves from society. This applies to Islamic schools, but also to Jewish and Orthodox Christian schools. I've asked many questions about it. We call for an update of education legislation. Firstly, make sure that schools allow everyone, using an acceptance obligation. Then we prevent schools from pursuing a door policy, which promotes segregation. I heard Mr Jetten say in his speech that he agreed, so I am counting on a majority. Make sure schools reflect society. Make arrangements with the municipalities about a fair distribution of disadvantaged pupils. This is already mentioned in Article 167a of the Law on Primary Education, an article which is not respected. As far as we are concerned, this also applies, of course, to secondary education. As far as we are concerned, we no longer need to finance schools that are excluded from these agreements, which deliberately isolate themselves and target an exclusive group of students. After all, they hinder integration? Finally, a question for the Minister of Justice. How is it possible that a school driver has ties to a terrorist organization, but that this driver is still out there? Why didn't you intervene? If that really couldn't be done, I suggest making it possible for a school to close immediately, if the AIVD makes these kinds of alarming reports. After all, the safety of the students is above all else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u50	My last half-interruption, Madam President. I hear Mr Jasper van Dijk say that although freedoms are given in the Constitution, it is regulated by law that education should not isolate itself from the rest of society, that integration and citizenship should take place. Then it's settled in the law, isn't it? Then the problem is not our Constitution, but that we must uphold the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u51	Well, the law is failing, Mr. Bruins, we've been able to see that this week. We see a school where there are terrorist ties, salafistic influences, anti-democratic education, and that school cannot be closed down. I see all the MPs on TV yelling that school has to shut down. The Minister hates what's happening. The mayor of Amsterdam hates what's happening. But nothing's gonna happen. The administration is laughing at you, I would almost say; all by the legislation in force, based on Article 23 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u53	Finally, Mr President. I have indicated that you can indeed make a lot of improvements within the current legislation, the Secondary Education Act and the Primary Education Act. That doesn't alter the fact that, if it's up to the SP, we're going to investigate a freshening up of Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr. Chairman. The freedom of education, as enshrined in Article 23 of the Constitution, is a pearl, a pearl in Dutch law, a pearl in the Dutch constitution. And that is why it is unacceptable for this article to be abused, regardless of school or direction. Last week there was the serious concern about the influence of jihadists in the Islamic school in Amsterdam. That is a form of abuse, but those concerns have already been expressed by the Chamber in a motion in 2016. A broad-based motion called for research into the possibilities of supervision to counter dangerous influences in education for the legal system. To date, this motion has collected mainly dust from our perception, and little has been done about it. The Constitution clearly states that education is free, but also mentions supervision. We are now quite unclear in the media and in the cabinet letters, when we could have had that clarity if that motion had been carried out. Is the Cabinet prepared to carry out this investigation? I am referring specifically to the Bishop's motion, adopted on 4 October 2016. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear immediately: the SGP thinks that more is possible than the cabinet is suggesting at the moment. However, we do need to distinguish a few things. The first possibility you have theoretically is to close special schools, both funded and non-costed. A second option is to stop or reduce funding. I'll check them out, start closing schools. Supervision was once introduced in the interests of public order. In the course of time this function has completely disappeared from the picture, but it is now proving to be quite topical again. The Constitution says that supervision should be regulated by law, but when it comes to the public-order aspects, that legislation hardly exists anymore. In education, prior royal recognition of associations used to have that supervisory function in advance. The Civil Code now only has general possibilities to dissolve legal persons. My question to the Ministers is therefore: do they also see the importance of regulating the special possibilities for supervision for education, including the ultimate measure of closing a school? This is where laws and regulations are lacking at the moment. Then stop or reduce the point of funding. Ministers point out that education legislation does not really provide scope for dealing with this school, but we believe that it does not do justice to existing legislation. The law first requires schools to work on active citizenship and social inclusion. In the ruling of several years ago on an Amsterdam Islamic primary school, the Council of State confirmed that the government cannot determine how schools do that, but that they should. The government can only intervene if a school does not work in any way towards integration. Now, according to the security services, Cornelius Haga Lyceum fulfils that condition. They even say that the school is working against integration. Surely this standard has been clearly violated, and it must be enforced. How does the Minister of Education assess the duty of care for safety? How can the competent authority in the courts suggest that the social and psychological security of pupils is in order if there are contacts with terrorist organisations that have an impact on the school? In short, is the Minister prepared to deal with this school through the financial sanctions? Although that cannot lead to closure at the moment, as I hope I have made clear. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr. Chairman. School time is supposed to be the most beautiful, carefree time of a child's life, a carefree time at a free, safe school. The Cornelius Haga Lyceum doesn't seem to be that safe haven. This is where intolerance is taught. This is where children learn to have an anti-democratic attitude towards our beautiful country and our rule of law. We don't want to run any risk with impressionable children. We do not want them to be indoctrinated with the poison of radical Islam and with jihadist ideas. Mr. Chairman. That seems to happen at this school, the Cornelius Haga Lyceum in Amsterdam. This school kept the inspection out of the door and is supported by hate images and other unbearable figures. Now this school also wants to expand to other cities, such as Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht. The directors of this school are apparently on a mission to create a parallel society in the Netherlands. That is completely unacceptable. Children should never suffer from the bad intentions of a school. That's why the VVD wants this school closed down. I ask the ministers: do not allow the situation at this school to continue by waiting for all kinds of investigations, but use Article 2:20 of the Civil Code for immediate closure. Is that possible? Where criminal motorcycle clubs in this country can be banned and drug houses closed, Salafist schools with extremist ties must be able to close down completely. Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday at Question Time, the Minister said that suspending funding or withdrawing it would be one of his current options, but that solution is insufficient. The board has to go. The school has to close. Moreover, I do not think that ending finances will be the decisive means of stopping this school. Does the Minister not also see the risk that a dubious foreign club will be able to keep the school open by means? So the school has to close.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u58	I have an informative question. I hear 2:20 every time now, but in fact, it requires a civil procedure. So I don't see what kind of speed this is gonna bring. Perhaps you could shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u59	Like probably many other parties, we have, of course, looked at whether there are loopholes that you can use to ensure that this school can be closed down in the shortest possible time. 2:20 gives a handle for this, but at present not enough. There has been an announcement that 2:20 will be tightened. That's what Minister Dekker announced, and he'll be coming to the Chamber soon. We would like to point out here the need and urgency for this article of legislation to be able to close down such schools as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u60	I am aware of the intention to broaden the scope of 2:20, and I support that. Only, I don't think it's a short-term solution. Hence my question because for a moment I didn't see which hook you meant, but you meant more that you should want to expand for future situations 2:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u61	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Whatever needs to happen is that the two laws that we have been waiting for as a Chamber for a long time are now coming in order to prevent this kind of radically Islamic schools from being set up and, if they already exist, to close them down. The VVD urges the Minister to send these laws to the Chamber with the greatest urgency. The first law is the bill foundation new schools and the second law is about the citizenship assignment. Is the Minister prepared to apply to the Council of State for an urgent procedure for the citizenship mission? Is there no need for further tightening up of these laws in preparation in the light of the totally undesirable events at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum? For example, refusing access to the education inspection or obstructing the performance of its task should, in the case of the VVD, mean closing a school. Can the Minister arrange that? Mr. Chairman. These ministers must take everything out of the VVD to get this school closed. Freedom of education is not meant for non-free education. Not only the board has to leave, the school has to close. We expect the Minister to send proposals to the Chamber to deal with this, proposals to which the VVD can immediately say 'yes'. As far as we're concerned, this is once and never again. Schools like Cornelius Haga Lyceum are not part of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u62	The freedom of education must not be a reason for poor education; it is becoming a bit of a doer, don't you think? We've been hearing it for years, and nothing's happening. Those drivers have to go, the VVD says. Totally. It's too crazy that we can't do this right now. Drug houses can be closed, motorcycle clubs can be banned but a school cannot close and drivers cannot leave. Do you agree with the SP that we simply need to add to the existing law as soon as possible, so that drivers who are guilty of spreading antidemocratic ideas or actively hindering integration can be dismissed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u63	I think that the course in my text leads to that. We need to ensure that we can tackle drivers when they are anti-integrative or anti-democratic in school, given the children who are going back to school tomorrow and receiving lessons at this school. We need to stop this as soon as possible. It is too crazy to say that we can ban motorcycle clubs and shut down drug houses, but that there are no emergency measures to deal with these kinds of governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u64	Totally. Then I suggest that we ask the Minister to extend the Secondary Education Act as soon as possible. It already says that you can fire drivers because of, for example, financial malpractice. So we just need to expand that article. If the Minister does not do so soon enough, will the VVD join in a proposal from the SP to arrange it quickly from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u65	Let's wait and see the Minister's response. I think many parties here have already spoken firm words about this school. For example, Mr Rog of the CDA has indicated that he wants to amend or tighten the designation decision. Well, let the Minister respond as positively as possible, because then we do not have to take action. If necessary, as far as I'm concerned, we're gonna look together to get this done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Heerema of the VVD states that he wants to close the school as soon as possible. I wonder what we'll do with the children and the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u67	I think it is rather cool that Mr Azarkan van DENK is standing here, because this is perhaps the most difficult debate for him: on the one hand he has this as a supporter and on the other hand he has the moderate Muslim as a supporter. That is not compatible, because one group says that the other group should not be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr President, I have a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u69	And now to Mr Azarkan's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u70	I'll answer the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u71	The articles state that if a personal fact is suggested by a Member of Parliament, that member will immediately be given the floor to explain...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u72	Well, "immediately"...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u73	Yes, it's in the rules. You can then weigh whether you give it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u74	Take it easy, Mr. Azarkan. I am trying to get Mr Heerema to answer your question. Then you will have the floor and then you will be allowed to make a personal statement. But you want to make a personal statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u75	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u76	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. It is not up to Mr Heerema to personally determine for me who my supporters are and whether this is the most difficult debate for me or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u79	In our view, this school must be closed because it goes against the constitutional values we have in the Netherlands. There are a lot of schools in Amsterdam where these children can go. There are many schools where parents can orient themselves to determine which school would be better for their child than this school. I shall come back to that later in my speech. I think the parents just made the wrong choice with this school. It's good that we have a visual on which parents they are. Perhaps, as a society, we can do something with that list of parents we may have. The closure of a school does not necessarily mean that the children immediately no longer have education. There are many possibilities in Amsterdam. Perhaps not this radical Islamic school they are currently at, but there is plenty of education where there are opportunities to teach these children that is precisely about integration, which is precisely about participating in our society, so that we can stand side by side and not against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u80	Now, the draft report that RTL News has recognized is being given good education here. That conclusion surprised me, too, but it's there. Now the report says that the board cooperates well, is an example and is open and transparent. How does that relate to Mr Heerema's words that the school should actually close as soon as possible and that the children should find out? "Find another school, we know better." The parents have no freedom of choice in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u81	Questions have been asked by Mrs Westerveld about the education inspection, which I wholeheartedly support. I am very curious as to how the education inspection would have come to this supposed judgment. I have the same questions. Has there been any contact with the school at all when the AIVD and NCTV had alarming or worrying messages? Can a school hide the activities from the education inspector in such a way that this opinion can come out? I would find that a very worrying conclusion, because that means that you can influence what an inspection report looks like. I have no reason to believe that I should doubt the judgment of the AIVD and the NCTV. That's what I'm assuming. I have said earlier that I have greater doubts about an alleged draft report from the education inspector where this school would have been able to come out as sufficient, than about what the AIVD and NCTV think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u82	Second interruption by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u83	Well, it's common practice that when we find these kinds of abuses, allegations or serious suspicions, we investigate. The Minister announced that. There will be a financial study, a study of the way in which the administration functions, the governance, and a study of the quality of education. But Mr Heerema and a number of other colleagues have already come to the full conclusion: the board must leave, the school must close. I think that's a lot. I have also heard the Prime Minister say that he has great concerns. We had great concerns here about ING and the money laundering fraud, but there was no one who said: the board must leave. Why are we doing that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u84	It's about kids. These are children who go to a school tomorrow where they receive education that is directed against our society. I'm very worried about how these kids are affected and what poison they're getting out of school with tomorrow. That is so important to me that I say that this school should not be there, should stop, should close, and those children should be able to integrate properly into our society so that they can join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u85	I share the view that these children should receive the best possible education, and I myself have managed for a number of years to develop into fully-fledged citizens. That is why I find it so striking that Mr Heerema says: board away, close school and the children will figure it out. The remark "seek another school" is really too easy and too short. This does not do justice to the freedom that parents have, even though they are schools that we do not want and which we do not personally support. I think that's too short a turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u86	That could be Mr Azarkan's opinion. We believe that a border has been crossed at this school and we believe that we should take action as soon as possible, with all the measures we have at our disposal. And if that's not enough, we need to extend those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u87	It is indeed about the importance of the children, but that is also why I was looking at the very harsh words of the VVD, both in the media and in this debate. The VVD says right away: that school has to close. Here a number of questions are asked about what the VVD wants and then reference is made only to legislation that is yet to come. That could take a couple of years. How do we know it's in the best interests of the children that this school closes immediately? What exactly are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u88	In our view, this school must be closed because we have no confidence that children who attend this school will receive the education that is needed in our society. What we are proposing is that the Minister should come to the Chamber as soon as possible with the laws we need to prevent this kind of school from being founded and the laws we need to close this school. For example, I asked for an urgent procedure with the Council of State. Are there no emergency measures for this school? It's too crazy for words that we can ban motorcycle gangs, that we can shut down drug houses, but we can't do anything about this school. Mr Bisschop has provided a number of articles of law that could possibly be addressed by this school or by these directors. I'd like to join in on that. I think they were very wise and true words. The mayor may have more options. The mayor has a position in the debate about this school. She said some things about it, too. She said, for example, that the board should quit. We're trying to do as much as we can. I admit that school won't be closed tomorrow. This is not possible with the current legislation and regulations. But let it be done as soon as possible. I very much hope that we will hear from the Minister a date that we can work towards, so that parents and children also know: okay, from that date on, I need to know where my children fit in a better place in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u89	That certainly gives more clarity. Mr Heerema just asked me if I did not think that if the inspection was obstructed, the school should be closed. Actually, I'd like to bounce back on that question. How often does Mr Heerema think that it will prevent the inspection from visiting a lesson? How many schools would we have had to close down in the past? What does it mean for the children who are now in this school if we shut down the school immediately? Is that what's best for the kids?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u90	Short response, Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr President, it is not my fault that I get all these questions. It's 175 kids in this school. I believe that in Amsterdam, where there is an incredible number of schools, they can be relocated in the short term. So I'm not worried about that if that school could close tomorrow. How many educational inspectors could not have been or should not have been, I do not know, genuinely not. But if you don't let the education inspector go anywhere, that's an argument for me to assume that that school has something to hide, something they don't want to show. That should be a reason to say: school, open up or else close up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u92	Can Mr Heerema indicate in what sense, in what way, the Cornelis Haga in the basis on which lessons are taught differs from other Islamic schools in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u93	I don't know all the Islamic schools in the Netherlands. But I have heard, for example, from the Islamic school in Rotterdam, the Avicenna College, how they deal with education and integration. That is, of course, a very different type of education than the radical Islamic branch that we see here at the Haga Lyceum. So how these differences are exact... We differ, I think, on how you deal with Islam in the Netherlands. I was just very happy to see that there were a lot of Islamic schools and mosques that said: the Cornelis Haga Lyceum's board has to go. This also indicates that we apparently have very sensible Islamists and Muslims in the Netherlands, who say: this must not take place. I think there's a big difference between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u94	I asked about the foundations, and the foundations are the same in all those schools. Let me give you the answer: all the foundations are the same in all these schools, because they are all Islamic schools. They teach on the basis of the Qur'an, on the basis of the sira and on the basis of all the hadiths there are, traditions and everything about the prophet. So there's no difference. Why then, in election time, call so loudly that a school whose misery is in the press must be closed? And why has the PVVD for years not supported thirteen motions from the PVV to address that problem? For all these schools have the basis to be antidemocratic, to be anti-integrative and to be anti-Western society, because that is the way Islam is. Why does the VVD abandon us over and over again and does it now have a big mouth in election time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u95	That is something we differ on, and that is quite clear. An Islamic school can be an addition to our society, if good education is given there, aimed at integration into society. As good as a reformed school or a Christian school or a school of another denomination could be. The PVV and the VVD disagree on this. This is an excrement, and you need to be able to fight it. Mr. Chairman. But if that works, we're not there yet. What will happen to the teachers who are now involved in anti-integrative and anti-democratic education? They remain competent to teach at another school. The big advantage is, we know who they are. We know who teaches at the Cornelis Haga Lyceum and who has dangerous ideas about this society. My question to the Minister is: how can you ensure that these teachers do not spread the same poison in another school after the Cornelis Haga Lyceum closes? There is no register, but can you take action via the VO-Council, for example? Then the parents of these students. The best choice would be to remember as a parent that this school doesn't have the best interests of your child and that it's better to choose another school. Instead, some parents seem to be taking up this radical Islamic school. They abuse our freedom to raise their children unfree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr Van Meenen's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u97	I am trying to understand what Mr Heerema has just said. That was about the teachers who now work at that school. So far, I understand it was about the drivers. They have all kinds of ties to wrong organizations. I'm just saying that. But do I understand that Mr Heerema is actually saying: the teachers who teach there now, whatever they may be, will now be banned from teaching? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u98	The teachers have a role in those anti-integrative ideas that they spread to the students. That's not just the board. It's got to be in the teachers' corps. We would find it very dangerous if these teachers, who are involved in this, were simply given the freedom at another school to influence other pupils again. So as far as we're concerned, yes. We ask the Minister whether it is possible to ensure that teachers who do not have the best interests of our society can no longer be placed in front of the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u99	Finally, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u100	I wonder in all my heart where Mr Heerema is getting this from. We've learned a lot about the drivers and there's a vague, unpublished inspection report. But does Mr Heerema have any idea what this means and how this could be worked out? I'm just hearing a professional ban on people here, and that's something I can't quite understand from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u101	Not only the directors have been given a place in the media and have been addressed from the cabinet about what is happening at that school. We are told that teachers are also called by name and by name who stand in front of the classroom in such a way that they do not allow students to be properly integrated into our society. There's just a list of them. I hope the Minister will be able to clarify this. We were only able to read this in the media last night. We would very much like to see such teachers no longer able to teach in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u103	So here too: we have them in view. What opportunities do ministries have to protect children from parents who are against integration and our democracy? Every child deserves to be raised in a free Dutch society. Do the ministers agree with us that sending your child to a Salafist-radical school is a form of oppression? How does the Minister of Integration ensure that these children integrate into our society rather than into a parallel one? Mr. Chairman. It is particularly worrying that the school receives support from radical imams, IS-sympathizers and other unfresh types, but fortunately there is also positive news. I am very pleased to see that there are other Islamic schools, and also mosques, who speak out against such schools and their radical thoughts, who want the Cornelius Haga Lyceum to close. Here we see the separation between Muslims who are focused on integration and those who are not. The VVD will always support that first group, but we will continue to fight that second group. That is our duty to guard our free and safe Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Azarkan, I see you standing, but like everyone else, you've had two interruptions. You want to fix something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u105	I want to make something right. I hear Mr Heerema saying that there are organisations that have advocated closing the school. As far as I'm aware, they have argued that the board should resign, but that the school should continue to exist. So I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u106	Then you have made this point clear. I now give Mrs Kuik the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr. Chairman. We all give our children the best quality education there is to offer. We give it to all children to develop themselves. And we all want children to feel at home in the Netherlands, that they fit in with the society that is the Netherlands and that there is no education that goes against that. That is why today's debate is so important. There is a right to education, freedom of education, but that must never be contrary to those fundamental values that we consider so important to each other. That is precisely why my group has called for an amendment to Article 23 not only to counter this injustice but also to combat inequality of opportunity and increase acceptance. Mr. Chairman. That is also why we now have a search together which we can do in the short term and in the longer term to stop the Haga Lyceum. We do not believe that the way in which this school now operates fits within Dutch society. It is not for nothing that the AIVD has written a very urgent report. I have the following questions about this. Why has the report been there since January and has it taken so long for the inspection to carry out a follow-up investigation? The first investigation was in October. That report has been held, but it has been in between for several months now. That was only after the publicity was sought on that AIVD report, if I got it right. So why didn't anything happen in the meantime? Mr. Chairman. I received the letter sent this afternoon. There are a number of suggestions being made to see how in the future you could prevent school boards from setting up schools, but I still miss solutions in the here and now. My suggestion would be as follows. We are familiar with Article 174/174a and I am also looking at the Minister of Justice who makes it possible to close buildings if there is a threat to public security. This is a direct threat to national security. Then why can't you close a building on that land? The Temporary Act also provides grounds for combating terrorism when there is an acute threat to security. This seems to be the case, otherwise the AIVD would not give a warning. The law will have to contain grounds for immediate intervention. Why can't we close up buildings with drugs or weapons and why can't we close up a school when there's poison, a threat to national security? If it is not possible, on the basis of this legislation, is it not possible to deal with these two laws, i.e. the Municipal Act or the Temporary Act, administrative measures to combat terrorism? I think that goes faster than Article 2:20. This means a substantial change in the constitution and requires far more than these two laws that we already have. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about the law that is still coming, which I have a little less sense of, but have looked at. This concerns the Wet foundation new schools. There's been a hearing with the Education Committee about this law. It has already been warned: as municipalities, we do not have enough grounds to intervene when schools want to establish themselves. That comment didn't happen. Aldermen have indicated: now give municipalities more powers to intervene if schools want to establish themselves. Nothing has happened to date either, because that would be too bureaucratic and too complicated. We now see from this current case that it is urgently needed. That is why I am asking Minister Slob, of course, through you, President: what will happen to the New Schools Foundation Act? Do municipalities get a loud voice in that now? How exactly is this bill being amended so that we can avoid these specific situations in the future? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go to a roundup. I think everyone here in the Chamber agrees that we don't blame these kids for being in a school with a school board that has terrorist ties. Those kids just deserve a new school, probably an Islamic school in their choice. Whether or not I am in favour of specific education, that is up to them. They just deserve another chance, a new place. But in the interest of national security, in the interest of being here in Dutch society with Dutch values, it is important that we do everything we can to close this school as quickly as possible, to do what is necessary and also to prevent us from standing here again about a new school in the future. In the past we were standing here about the Islamic College Amsterdam, and it took almost ten years before we could close it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u108	This week, Mr Asscher, the group chairman of Mrs Kuik had an interview in a morning newspaper...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u109	De Volkskrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u110	One of the morning's newspapers is many of them, in which he indicated that he was willing to look up the edges of the democratic rule of law to protect children. What exactly is the proposal that I can now expect Mrs Kuik to look for the edges of the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you for allowing me to clarify that. As I said, we want an amendment to Article 23, i.e. an amendment to the Constitution, because we think it is very important that education should never be anti-democratic and should never be anti-integrative. That's step one. Secondly, I said: look at existing legislation. For example, see if you can apply Article 174 of the Municipal Act. Look at the Temporary Law on Anti-Terrorism Administrative Measures. Then you will also have to look up the edges of what we now find useful and necessary. That's what I'm talking about. And enlargement of 2:20 will also bring a very exciting debate together because it is about something. This is also about religious freedom, but my group also supports it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u112	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u113	Okay. Those are very noble motives. I would like to hear that again from Mrs Kuik to see if I understood correctly and whether it was in line with Mr Asscher's interview, but it is true. But that brings me to the next question. I have been in this Chamber with Minister Asscher for five years. It's the same in person. Now he has a different political function. For five years, the PVV has been molesting, assaulting, insulting me and the PVV, if you may call it that: the PVV does nothing but look for the borders of the rule of law and thus put away entire sections of the population. But our intention with our proposals was all along in all the debates I had with Mr Asscher to protect populations, actually the whole population, from something. Now we actually have the same noble breast. Mr Asscher wants to protect only one small group. Those are the Islamic kids. We wanted to protect society as a whole. Can I now expect a cavalier excuse, perhaps from Mrs Kuik on behalf of Mr Asscher, or perhaps just before the elections in Mr Asscher's press addressed to the whole of the PVV? 'Cause that kind of excuse is in order, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u114	If we can have a decent debate about "less, less," then we can have a proper conversation with each other. What you do all the time is put away entire sections of the population. That is also what Mr Asscher has constantly pointed out to you. And don't start crying. I don't feel like it at all. That's not what this is about either. Even the rest of the Islamic schools in Amsterdam have said: the Haga Lyceum must close, because it is no good. I am not such a fan of special education myself, but as long as we have it, Islamic education is also included. That does mean that it has to fit within Dutch society. That makes a difference. Or you say, "Everything that has to do with Islam, I reject it and I think it's bad." Or you say, no, elements that I don't think are right, I'll take them. This is very specific. This is about the Haga Lyceum. That is the difference between your group and mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u115	You wanted to correct something personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u116	Well, of course I'm challenged, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make that right anyway. Mrs Kuik answers a question that I have not asked and then comes up with all kinds of suspicions. I just have to say from Mrs Kuiken's reply that Mr Asscher of the week did indeed in the Volkskrant an electoral rhetoric, that there will be no excuse and that the whole story of the PvdA zero comma nada,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u117	That's not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u118	... nothing, was worth nil. Chooser, watch your count!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr President, I can still respond. We announced the amendment to Article 23 months ago. This is also completely unrelated to the current case we are discussing. Acknowledge that and don't be so silly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr. Chairman. What we have heard about the Haga Lyceum in Amsterdam is very worrying. It is quite unique that the security services issue such an explicit warning. The administration of the school plays the murdered innocence, but the alarming reports from the services indicate that the democratic rule of law is at stake here. The Christian Union appreciates the action of the ministers and the other parties involved. What is dark must be brought to light. My question to the Minister for Justice and Security is: what exactly happened? Are there any other investigations currently taking place, for example through the Tax Administration, the FIOD, the NCTV or the screening authority Justis? Have any criminal acts been established? And can specific persons, such as board members of the foundation, the management of the school or the internal supervisor, be held liable? A legal person may be prohibited if, in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor, the activities are contrary to public policy. According to the Minister of Justice, in this case, does a school deliberately spread extremist anti-democratic ideas to teenagers? Has there been any evidence of discrimination within the school? If half of the curriculum is devoted to the salafistic doctrine of faith, is it covered by the current Article 2:20 of the Civil Code or by its planned extension? Then my questions to the Minister of Education. What exactly has the inspection done in recent weeks with regard to this school? Has she been given the space to do her job in the last few days? I read that the investigation can lead to a clue in the event of serious shortcomings. What is such a clue? How dare the government intervene to prevent such excesses? Mr. Chairman. I wonder if the inspection is equipped to assess such schools. If we hear from the media that the unrevealed inspection report was praised about this school, can the inspection deal with deliberate deception? We have tried to make the inspection work more on trust in recent years, but is this method appropriate in schools where a different presentation of things is deliberately given? All these questions are relevant, because we in the Chamber agree that what is happening at this Amsterdam school cannot be allowed. As far as my group is concerned, the cabinet must look at measures to tackle this school along all paths. Mr. Chairman. The freedom of education is a great asset, but freedom ends where it is abused. Article 23 of the Constitution is not a licence, nor is it meant to be. Fundamental rights are never unlimited and must always be seen in conjunction. This applies to Article 23, but also to other articles relating to this case, such as freedom of religion, freedom of expression and the right to association. I am talking about constitutional articles 6, 7.3 and 8. We must intervene if education is antidemocratic, if hatred and discrimination are provoked, if the principles of the democratic rule of law are undermined or if there are relations with extremist groups. Mr. Chairman. It is not the freedom of education that needs adaptation. The freedom of education does not prevent us in any way from judging schools on how they are managed, how education is given and how funding is handled. The freedom of education does not prevent us from intervening where necessary. The Secondary Education Act provides in Article 3b for the competent authority to ensure social security at school. Article 17 says that education should be aimed at promoting active citizenship and social inclusion. Freedom of education does not prevent vigorous action towards schools. The school leadership has proven to have failed to do its job to a great extent, and that must have serious consequences. Mr. Chairman. What can the minister say to the municipalities? An advisory right of municipalities to set up a school, as suggested by the four major cities, seems to me to be a measure which has little teeth and which, at the same time, has an unclear influence on the role of the government in the school foundation. I would like to hear from the Minister what opportunities he sees to help municipalities to avoid undesirable situations like this. Furthermore, I think it is particularly important that we speed up the planned legislation on the citizenship role of education and the Law more room for new schools, so that pre-requisites can be made for schools and school boards. I would ask all three ministers, in addition to the letter received today, to clarify what additional legislation is in the pipeline in the areas of integration, criminal law and education legislation. Legislation must ensure that young people are better protected against the extremist views and behaviour to which the pupils at this Amsterdam school are exposed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. Last week we were shocked by reports about the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. Guided persons within the school want to dedicate half of the curriculum to the salafistic doctrine of faith. Those individuals also intend to bring the students outside the regular class hours under their influence. Those persons were in contact with a terrorist group responsible for the attacks on the Moscow metro; serious signals. 50PLUS knows the AIVD and the NCTV well enough to take this very seriously. Most Dutch people did, so it caused a lot of unrest, while no one seems to know exactly what is going on. The public does not understand why, on the one hand, this message is being published, but, on the other hand, the school is still allowed to go crazy. That seems contradictory. Can't explain how a school with a board like that can keep teaching our kids? I'd like a response. Since yesterday, there has been a show at EenVandaag (EenVandaag) that the Education Inspectorate was about to publish a commending report. How is that possible? Has the school board been deceiving the inspection? From 2009 to 2012, the board was associated with a terrorist organisation. Why didn't this come to light until now? The foundation of the school was seen as a decisive factor of the Islamic College Amsterdam. That college was also associated with undermining activities at the time. What were the findings of the AIVD at the time? Can the Minister guarantee that this also does not play in other schools? In today's letter, the Minister writes that Islamic education makes an important contribution to Dutch society. What contribution are we talking about? Madam President, I know a great book: Couscous on Sunday. In that I read that there are very few Islamic schools in Morocco and that it is not seen there as a contribution to society. Here it would be a contribution, as we read in the letter. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. If criminal acts have been committed, my group expects the D.A. to take action. The Penal Code criminalizes certain radical expressions, such as inciting hatred and recruiting for the armed struggle. Does that happen at this school and, if so, can the Minister of Justice indicate whether the prosecution is being prosecuted? The problem we face goes beyond just this case. 50PLUS sees an agreement with the banning of hate preachers, the cessation of questionable foreign money flows and the exclusion of homosexual teachers; all things that the vast majority consider to be inappropriate to our freedom and tolerance. Freedom of education and religion are being abused to spread discrimination, oppression and anti-democratic ideas. What can we do about that? There are cities that fight the arrival of the Haga Lyceum to the judge. It is up to the judge to rule on this, but doesn't the legislator have a role to play here? First of all... Today's letter mentions on page 5 three conditions for funding, namely: administrative action, financial legality and quality of education. Can that be extended? Sowing hatred or recruiting for the armed struggle should also be a reason to stop funding, even to close the school? Second. Freedom of religion, freedom of education, is limited. You have to abide by the laws. Inciting hatred and recruiting for the armed struggle are already criminal and yet it is happening. Is there a need for a lex special? A lex specialis is an article as an addition to an already existing article of law to explicitly appoint a specific case. In this case, I am thinking of an addition to the Code of Criminal Law to explicitly criminalise orthodox people who are guilty of hatred and recruitment for the armed struggle. Are the Ministers prepared to examine such a lex specialise? Finally, a factual question about something that is at the top of page 5. Am I to understand that the funding has now stopped until a new board enters? Or is that funding still on? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. I've been away for a while. Thank you for your welcome words from just now. I'm walking like a chicken, but after those words, I can't be kept. We have returned to the theatre of pious principles, crocodile tears, catching flies and fleeing to new legislation. Good luck, ministers, because that's where it's headed. Where we have actually arrived, is in the theatre where still fragments can be picked. We are sitting here talking about a school that could have been shut down with the greatest ease. Instead of celebrating the closure, we're gonna pick up the shrapnel and blame each other for not having happened yet. What was supposed to happen here? Education law? You don't have to. Amendment of the Constitution? You don't have to. That's years away, and the school board is celebrating. They've been alerted in time. They're in the curtains and can be a martyr. They are discriminated against, because their school must close. Oh, boy. What was going on? That's quite a bit of a hunch. The AIVD has found the following suspicions. People are spreading the salafistic ideas. Well, shit. There is a connection with jihad fighters here and there, in the Caucasus, in Chechnya and you name it. There's a ban on singing and dancing. Yes, art and pleasure is strictly forbidden, and must be strictly resisted. A headscarf is a must, the boys and girls are separated and the inspection is taken by the nose. You've got a hell of a suspicion here. Mr. Wilders knows all about it. Here it is brought up with texts that are discriminatory. This is where discrimination is brought up against unbelievers, for otherwise you are not a salafist; then it does not work with that ideology. The inspection is taken by the nose. The suspicion drips off that Article 137 here is being violated by discrimination against unbelievers and perhaps also hate-sowing, given the guys who teach there. Organised activities are covered by Article 140 of the Criminal Code, Minister. Write it down; it's real. If you do that in an organized context and run that organization, it's gonna take eight years. Eight years! Look what you can do. What's bothering us right now is that we need another red tape. The AIVD had formulated a wonderful suspicion. She walks it to Mrs. Halsema, and what does that stupid woman do, if I may put it that way? She throws it in the paper and talks to these guys. They're gonna be wide awake right now. They think: ooh, ooh, ooh, sweet soup; now we have to change our lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mrs Halsema is mayor of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u127	He could be stupid, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u128	No, you can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u129	Well, in this case, it's not smart, not smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u131	She means well, because she wants to talk to the salafists. But first, she said that school has to close. My question to the Minister is: did he want to? She said that at a time when it wasn't legally possible. It was a massive suspicion. What were you supposed to do? Get 126l out of the closet. You don't know what's happening within the walls of that school yet. That's the easy part. You're being talked out of the walls. But you need to know what's going on inside. And you can. Article 126l facilitates the inclusion of confidential conversation. Nothing new; every criminal organization has to deal with it. In that case, the school is covered with microphones. Then you can listen carefully to what is being cooked up and you have the suspicion around. According to that article, this can be done in the event of suspicion of an eight-year crime. In this case, this is facilitating and directing a criminal organisation. That's what they should have done. Instead of revealing the suspicions of the AIVD, they should have rubbed their hands and thought: oh, that's nice; now we're going to continue investigating. They'd be screwed. And now we're picking up shards. New legislation is needed. The Constitution and the Education Act and what should not be changed. I can hear all the lyrics. And the teachers in question are celebrating. They could be a martyr for years to come. Mr. Arkazan can also make good decorations. That's why he's coming for a while; I expected him a long time ago, but it doesn't matter. I understand his joy. He can tell at home that they have nothing to fear from these ministers for the time being. Well, here's what I want to know. Mrs. Halsema says we need to close this school. That's what she told the minister. Did the Minister agree at the time? Or did he say to Mrs Halsema: "There is still not enough evidence. Wait a minute. I'm gonna get the detectives on it. We're going to infiltrate that school for a while, because the suspicion is heavy, and then we'll catch them." I'd like to know what the Minister thinks of this wonderful, missed opportunity. Mrs. Halsema had me a scoring chance, and so did the Ministry. Finally closed one of those hate factories. And then she blasts the ball hard into her own goal, and the school celebrates. And we are sitting here with testimonies and pious talk and how to save education for every child's soul. All bullshit! It's not getting anywhere. 126l, and now they're having a debate. You have to smoke them out instead of converting them. How the hell can you convince a salafist as a disbeliever of your own right? Come on! The child's soul is at stake; the legal order is at stake. This is related to the fight against criminal organisations and the means of detection. The children's soul is particularly at stake here. May I say that, as a educator, ever? Those children are being deprived of the democratic perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u132	Right in five minutes, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u133	It's a coercive regime. Mr. Arkazan's out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u134	It's Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u135	Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u136	Not Arkazan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u137	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr. Azarkan, I think you wanted to make a personal statement. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u139	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Through you I tell Mr Hiddema that we have been in the Chamber for two years. It's Azarkan. I've introduced myself to you a number of times, but I'd like to say it again. But what's personal to me is that for the second time I've been profiled ethnically-religiously. I find that objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u140	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u141	An incomprehensible point! I've only described Mr. Azarkan as Mr. Azarkan. Furthermore, I wouldn't be able to report a-two-three much about him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u143	Definitely not ethnic. I don't know what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. Oh, no, Mr. Azarkan, last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u145	Yeah, he's a persistent one, you know!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u146	No, no, no, Mr. Azarkan also has speaking time. He is therefore speaking on behalf of his group. So you're done, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u147	I tend to stand by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u148	No. That is always nice, but the floor is now really up to Mr Azarkan. Give each other a hand. Look at this! Mr Azarkan, that is Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u149	It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u150	It can be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I'm late for registration. Something went wrong, so I wasn't on the list but added at the last minute. Mr. Chairman. In society, there must be room for different forms of education. In the Netherlands, we have freedom of direction and design. That's a big good. This is guaranteed in Article 23 of the Constitution. This is an important pillar of our rule of law. All Dutch people are free to set up a school, whether this is orthodox-Jewish, orthodox-Christian or orthodox-Islamic. Everyone is equal before the law and the law is equal for everyone. We've all agreed rules and made laws on how to set it up and supervise schools. All kinds of institutions play a role in this. We know about the Education Inspectorate and the Minister of Education, but several local authorities also play a role in this. Mr. Chairman. Last week we read in two letters serious allegations to the board of the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. These letters refer to "contacts with terrorist organisations by directional persons." That raises a lot of questions for the DENK Group. First of all, who is meant by these "directives"? When was this discovered? Can the Minister give us an open mind on this? Mr. Chairman. Then something about the draft report. The draft report, seen by RTL News, also raises a lot of questions for the group of DENK. Is it true that, according to the inspection, the quality of education is more than sufficient on all the parts examined? And is it true that the inspection has come to the conclusion that the school is honest and transparent and professional and that this also applies to the board, according to the inspection? It is also suggested that extra hours of Dutch and mathematics are given, especially the educational well-being of the students. Is it true that this draft inspection report was ready for publication in November 2018 but that this was stopped at the very last moment? An important question for the group of DENK is why and by whom this has been stopped. By the Minister? By the NCTV? By the AIVD? By Mayor Halsema? We do not know that and we would like to know that. And who has informed and influenced this independent supervisor? Why has NCTV decided not to inform Mayor Halsema confidentially but by means of a public letter, eight days before the closing of the registration period? Can the Minister send the draft report to the Chamber? I would also like to know from the Minister whether the conclusions of the inspection report are correct. If not, what parts are wrong? Have people been misled from the inspection? And how does that inspection report relate to what the NCTV reports? I would like to know from the Minister how he can interpret these contradictory sounds. What will be the further investigation that the Minister announced at Question Time? What concrete indications are there that there is something wrong with governance, educational quality and funding? Mr. Chairman. In the opinion of the group of DENK, it is the task of a school board to facilitate good education. They must do their best to provide the best possible education to the future citizens of society. That's what DENK expects from school boards. At the same time, the group of DENK notes that there is a long history of opposition from this school. This history dates back to when Lodewijk Asscher was an education alderman. Is it true that there have been 42 court cases, which we read in the documents, and that the school has been awarded 42 times? Is this correct, Minister? Professor of Education Law Paul Zoontjens of Tilburg University follows the government's actions with growing amazement, he writes. "The municipality and the State Secretary have tried to stop this school on false grounds. That is quite clear," said this professor. Can the Minister imagine that parents, teachers and other people are skeptical about the way in which these 42 cases have been handled? And does the Minister share the view that respect for the judgments of the judge is also part of the whole idea of a democratic rule of law? Finally, Mr President. Legislation has been announced to enable schools to be closed on grounds other than those currently in existence. What is the state of this legislation and what exactly is it about? How does it relate to Article 23 of the Constitution? Can the Minister promise that both the letter and the spirit of Article 23 will be respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u152	At least this is a different story from the rest of the Chamber. It is as if Mr Azarkan is defending this radicalist school despite the worrying sounds from AIVD and NCTV. I have followed the debate in the Amsterdam City Council, and the Amsterdam Department of DENK seems to have the main concern that Islamic education in Amsterdam is under pressure. The main concern is therefore not those who attend the school, who cannot integrate and receive anti-democratic education. Is that the biggest problem in this case? I was wondering if, because you say that you also think it is important that children become good citizens of this society, you distance yourself from DENK in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u153	I find it really rather sad and a little cunning what Mr Heerema is doing. First of all, he puts words in my mouth, namely that I am defending someone or something. I am concerned about the importance of education. I'm talking about putting the kids at the center. But I am also concerned that we have agreed on rules and that we have complied with them. That goes for all the boards. I don't care what educational institution they're from. Then the second part of your question. You are now in conversation and debate with the Member of the Danish Parliament and you have just heard my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u154	That was a somewhat incomplete answer, as far as I am concerned. Then let me simply ask: do you distance yourself from this school or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u155	No, I'm not gonna distance myself from this school. I think there are serious suspicions towards the board. I think it's a good thing the Minister is investigating it further. If it is clear that things are happening that cannot be done, then we must not only act, but also prosecute. But you are already calling in advance, without having any information and without waiting for the tests, on TV that the whole school can close and that the children have no future. That's what the interruptions showed. I'm not going along with that. I am primarily concerned with the future of the children and the parents. The board should facilitate that. Only if that doesn't happen right can the board get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u156	This was a wonderful contribution by Mr Azarkan, as far as I am concerned. He relied on a draft report from the education inspector, but he did not mention the facts raised by the AIVD. Half the time is for teaching in the Salafist doctrine of faith. Anti-radicalisation strategies are being acted upon. It's not nothing. There are ties to terrorist organisations. Does Mr Azarkan think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr. Rog isn't listening. I will read one more time the beginning of my speech: "There have been serious allegations to the board in the two letters." I spoke about this and I also said that it is extremely serious. As far as I'm concerned, it's very simple. If it is a criminal offence, the minister must act, press charges and not just dismiss the administration but also deal with criminal law. So you're half listening, Mr. Rog. You put words in my mouth that I didn't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u158	I asked Mr Azarkan a question and I am glad to hear that he thinks it is serious. My follow-up question is next. We have seen with each other that this administration has, in fact, always been able to drive its way through the loopholes of the current legislation, in spite of everyone else. My question to Mr Azarkan is whether he wants to work with the rest of the Chamber in order to prevent such directors from providing this kind of education. Will Mr Azarkan van DENK participate in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u159	It is striking that if we agree laws and rules and act with people in them, we sometimes want to amend those laws because we want to deal with certain groups of people a little more strictly than others. This is the second time I've noticed this. We've had that here with the imams. If an imam stays within the law, even the proposal is "if I'm not mistaken about the CDA," to limit our freedom of expression. I think that goes too far. I think we have enough resources together to make sure that we can test the education. I want them applied here. I want the education inspector to do her job. If the education inspection is obstructed, sanctions should be imposed. But it can't be that we're acting on the basis of those rumors. What is in that report is extremely important, as is why it has not been published. On that basis, we must act, not just on the basis of rumors. As with other cases, we must first establish that there is a violation. We'll investigate that and then we'll act. I don't care if we send the board away, but I do think those kids should have a place at school, in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u161	I shall first give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u162	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the specific questions of your Chamber, I should like to list the key points, because they contain all the questions and answers. The General Intelligence and Security Service, AIVD, has recently sent out such signals, specifically concerning children at risk of growing up in an anti-democratic and extremist environment. The signals of the AIVD are in line with the worrying developments within Salafism, as outlined by the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, in the Threat Picture of Terrorism The Netherlands 49, from February this year. The signals from the AIVD were so serious that the government could not remain on its hands. Doing nothing wasn't an option. That is why the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security has transferred serious concerns to the Mayor of Amsterdam. The Mayor of Amsterdam has made public those distressing signals that have actually been identified. Let it be very clear that the NCTV also indicates that these concerns could be made public without delay. So now everyone can learn about it and parents and students can choose a school based on all available information. The importance of the children is paramount. It is important to stress that the freedom of education and the freedom of religion or belief are both a great asset in our society. In addition, the cabinet does not consider it the role of the government to interfere in religious or philosophical discussions. Special education, also in the more orthodox variant, can count on active protection of the government. This changes when education becomes antidemocratic, the principles of our democratic rule of law are undermined and there are relations with extremist groups. By signals that anti-democratic attitudes and active dislike of Dutch society are being disseminated in education, or a parallel society that is opposed to the fundamental values of Dutch society, the government draws a line and acts. You can now see an example of this. Finally, I would like to make a firm statement against people or groups who would like to take advantage of this situation in order to discriminate against others, or even to engage in threats or violence. They too are divisive and that is also contrary to our Dutch core values.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u163	Before I give Mr Krol the floor, I would like to agree on the number of interruptions with you; instead of doing two in the first term, we are doing three in the government's term. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u164	I'm not trying to say anything to the minister, but something keeps going through my head that I keep chewing on. I hear saying that the AIVD finds something and tells that to the mayor of Amsterdam and he brings it out and that was allowed. But the AIVD could have brought that out on their own, couldn't it? Wouldn't that have made much more sense? Wouldn't that have been quite a feces for a mayor, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u165	Firstly, there is a National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, under my Ministry of Justice and Security. He is the one who is responsible for, for example, releasing the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, or bringing it to the attention of governments and governments of these kinds of signals. Secondly, I said at the beginning that it was brought to the attention, with the direct permission to act on it and to make it public, because that power may lie with another government; in this case it was a school in Amsterdam. Here it is that the National Coordinator has the responsibility to decide whether or not we are going to bring this out. The National Coordinator has also acted in the same way, also in relation to the fact that the school enrolment period was running, and the National Coordinator is also very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u166	Surely I understand that if the National Coordinator knows that, it's much better for the public that he brings out the message instead of the mayor? Now it's getting a little hearsay. I'd rather not put mayors in positions like that. You may have, but I would never have done it like this. Please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr Krol forgets here that I informed your Chamber about the same minute, and that was, of course, as well as the letter from the National Coordinator to the Mayor, which made the letter even more public. The Minister of Justice and Security has assumed that responsibility directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u168	I agree with the Minister's statement that everyone can now take note of all the objections to that school, me too. So what are the objections?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u169	I refer to the letter which, in summary, makes it quite clear that there are signs of the undemocratic nature of the school's direction. The letter also indicates, as has already been mentioned by the Chamber, that in the past, there have been extremely questionable links between guidance people from the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u170	Do you think that those children's supporters have been served by these kinds of signals, without one concrete fact being brought forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u171	I believe that the letter provides sufficient concreteity and leads for those who read it. This letter is not aimed at a supporter. I am also saying this in reply to Mr Krol on public disclosure. This letter aims to make it clear that the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, which falls under my responsibility, says: I have serious concerns in the light of the signals about this school. You have also heard, Mr President, that I referred to the Threat Picture of Terrorism in the Netherlands. Those concerns aren't on their own. We should also read them in the warnings given by the National Coordinator in the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands 49. That's a pretty thorough, comprehensive warning. In short, the letter and the threat picture indicate very comprehensively what the care is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u172	So far, I understand that the issue has developed in such a way that the National Coordinator has personally become concerned. That's a good quality of someone in that position. On the basis of what developments, facts and circumstances does the National Coordinator think the situation is inconvenient? That's what we want to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u173	I would like to bring in the letter and the threat picture and read it to you, but I did it in summary for your Chamber, because I really assume that everyone knows all about these pieces. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security says: we have been seeing more and more signals from Salafist drivers lately. We can see that there is a wrong development in this. Then, at this school, we see that I am saying it out of my head for a moment, half or more than half of the education would be in the context of that Salafism. In addition, we have some signals from the AIVD that are disturbing. These are specified in the letter. I'd be happy to read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u174	Maybe it's good to know that that letter was sent to the Chamber this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u175	That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u176	Do you have that letter, Mr. Hiddema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u177	If that letter were so crushingly convincing, I might not even have appeared today. But that letter is from Styrofoam; that's no use at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u178	So you have the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u179	The National Coordinator is very concerned. Then I don't understand why the National Coordinator doesn't care...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u180	That letter's from last week. It's not from this afternoon. It's from March 7th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u181	There are two letters. There's a letter from March 7th and there's a letter from today. It's more extensive. I haven't read them all, but I assume the spokesmen know that very well. That second letter was dated March 14th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u182	Those lyrics are from Styrofoam. It shows that there are developments, trends and signals. Ready! The National Coordinator is to ensure that our children's soul is protected. If those signals are there, why doesn't he use the methods at his service to catch the cause of those signals? 'Cause they're naked. It makes him nervous. We don't know what it's about, and we don't know what it's about those parents, especially those parents. And now they're all hoping, these tangles together, and all they do is grow opposition to people who want to make the school suspicious. So the effect is contradictory to what one apparently wants. But I'd like to hear exactly what's going on in that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u183	I'm gonna go back anyway. I refer to a letter dated 7 March from the National Coordinator on Combating Terrorism and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u184	He can't talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u185	That is not today's letter from the Minister of Education, which also contains a number of the same issues. I do not think that the observation of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security is Styrofoam. Those are firm observations. The National Coordinator does not talk about the question of criminal offences; he warns against the signals from the AIVD that there are anti-democratic signals in the school curriculum but also among the guidance people in the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr. Hiddema, we've arranged for three interruptions. So if you're interrupting now, then you're out of your interruptions. And the Minister has only just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u187	Then I'm gonna have to get out of here, 'cause it's a mer à boire to interrupt. Can I just have one more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u189	I have a supplement to that. Nor is it clear to me what exactly are the cases that could fall under criminal prosecution. I also read in that letter that there are contacts. That is extremely serious. As far as I am concerned, that should be further investigated. But I ask the Minister what exactly are the facts on the basis of which these directors can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u190	The signals mentioned are not signals that describe criminal offences at all. I think we have a misunderstanding here after all. I shall simply quote from the letter of 7 March. It'll take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u191	It's okay. It's important, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u192	I quote a passage after there is therefore a detailed introduction in which pieces are quoted from the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands. It is said that there are those Salafists who constantly set up new educational and formal initiatives and thereby dominate non-regular Islamic education. They successfully collect funds at home and abroad with which they finance new projects. That's another quote from the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands. The quote goes on and specifies that further. And then comes, and now I quote the letter on p. Two, here's what I'm gonna do. "On 15 January 2019, the General Intelligence and Security Service (AIVD) transmitted such signals about anti-democratic and anti-integrative behaviour of an educational institution in your city, namely the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. These signals meant that certain guidance people within the school would like to dedicate half of the curriculum to the salafistic doctrine of religion and intend to bring pupils under their influence beyond regular teaching times. In addition, key players within the school find themselves acting in violation of the anti-radicalisation strategy developed by the government. It also emerges from information that at least one religious lesson was deliberately cancelled at the time when the Education Inspectorate came to check. In addition, the alarming signals also meant that those directional persons had been in a salafistic and radical environment since 2000. It is known that they would have been in contact with the terrorist group "the Caucasus Emirate" in the period 2009-2012. The Emirate was active in the period 2007 to 2015, after which some of the fighters joined IS. The Caucasus Emirate is responsible for attacks such as those on the Moscow subway in 2010."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u193	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u194	"The signals also indicate that they surround themselves with salafistic drivers. The situation described by the AIVD fits in with the broader picture outlined in the DTN 49. The above-mentioned behaviours are not in line with the face of the school board to the outside." And then I'll come a little further down the road, I'll spare you further quotes, Mr................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It was obstructed, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u195	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u196	Well, that's what it says. As Minister for Justice and Security, responsible for the National Coordinator, I think it is right that the National Coordinator should qualify this as such signals and bring them to the attention of the Mayor of Amsterdam, with the permission to reveal it. By the way, I did that myself to your room. So they're not criminal offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u197	Yes. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u198	Compliments for the Minister, because he is very good at reading from the letter I myself have read several times. I am concerned about the interpretation and addition of the Minister. I think it is important that we have the debate for that reason and not to get what we have already received. Let me conclude that the Minister says nothing criminal has happened. Apparently, having a connection with a terrorist organization isn't criminal. I think that's really weird. I don't think that should be. Something really should be done about that. The second is that I note that there are two things that are worrying, namely anti-democratic and anti-integrative. I'm having a lot of trouble with that last one myself. "Anti-integrative"; I do not know if we have discussed this well and whether that is the line of a majority. I'm not sure what "anti-integrative" is. I would like everyone in the Netherlands to participate fully, but there are people who think differently within the framework of the law. For me, the question is whether we are going to test that. So I ask the Minister whether these directors have acted within or outside the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u199	Then I'll go back to that whole part of the letter. What matters is that we in the Threat Picture of Terrorism in the Netherlands signal the concerns that there are about drivers of salafism. We note that there is a fundamentalist movement that relates in certain parts, so to speak, to jihadism. That is where our services see a danger to national security. The services here indicate that this also takes place at this school in the description as shown in the letter. This is a serious concern that the NCTV has transmitted to your Chamber and also to the mayor of Amsterdam through me. That's a very important concern, but that's something else... I also wanted to answer Mr Hiddema's question: why should you act now and should you not wait for criminal offences? But that is a very different matter. At the moment it is important that the signals about the school were so serious...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u200	It might be good to speak in the microphone. Otherwise, people can't quite follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u201	Sorry. I never know how far it works. ...that waiting was not an option in the light of the already mentioned registration period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u202	The passage that the Minister has just read is very serious. I complete that passage with page 2 of the letter we received today from Minister Slob: "The information will only be disclosed if there is a threat to national security or to the democratic rule of law, and if it has actually been found." It's crystal clear. How on earth is it possible that this minister could not have closed down the school on the basis of these harsh facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u203	I do not have any authority on this point. Let's start with that. In addition, I have made the following very clear. We have these serious concerns, and I am pleased to hear that Mr Van Dijk is actually sharing them because we believe that the population should know that this is happening and that people should be able to take that into account when choosing schools. I now confine myself to my own policy area. Whether there is reason for any criminal law or, as Mrs Kuik suggested, administrative intervention by this minister is another matter. Of this, I can at least say that, of course, in situations where there may be a threat to national security, our services, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, are extremely vigilant and are always monitoring the situation. I have said this to the Chamber in other cases. Sometimes we have to be patient in life; that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u204	I find it unimaginable. However, I shall go to one of the measures proposed by the government: tightening up Article 2:20 of the Civil Code to ban radical organisations. But this is only on the agenda if this leads to a conflict with public order, for example by systematically calling for violence or encouraging hatred and discrimination. If this tightening-up is completed, could this Islamic school in Amsterdam be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u205	That's a really like-dan question. In the light of my constitutional function, I do not think it is right to reply to that. It is quite clear that your Chamber, but also in the letter sent today, will be discussing the issues in its own legislative area in the near future. It is always important to keep the legislative instruments dynamic, as fortunately in the Netherlands we have strengthened legislation on the punishment of terrorists or people who have been involved in terrorist organisations in recent years. This has not happened in Sweden, for example. And you can see that the Swedish Government has a problem with that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u206	Things are gonna get really complicated. There are a lot of harsh words in the letters. Last week we heard the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education in the media saying that he would have preferred to close the school. At the same time, we hear ministers here in the Lower House mainly talking about concerns and signals. I am therefore asking a very clear question. Does the minister, do the ministers have any other information? Do they know more than we know? If things just can't be shared, maybe we could settle for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u207	With regard to information messages, there are always aspects relating to sources and to personal sensitive information. When it comes to material content, it is really shared with the Chamber, just like with the mayor of Amsterdam, which is stated in the letter of the NCTV. So it's not like the government is holding things back, so to speak. However, we must continue to realise that these signals are based on intelligence from the services. I would also like to emphasise, in the direction of Mrs Westerveld, that we must keep the picture clear. My job is to ensure the safety of the Netherlands, national security. In this context, the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, under my command, has decided to 'bring these concerns out', you might say, because that was, of course, the inevitable consequence of sending that letter to the mayor, and of sending that letter from the NCTV to your Chamber by me. Precisely because we are responsible for national security and we need to share this concern explicitly; that is why we have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u208	I'm not trying to insinuate that information would not have been shared that should have been shared. What I would like to know in particular is: are there matters that the ministers know, but which we should not know, for the sake of security or for any other reason? Knowing that will make the debate a lot easier. Now we continue to talk about signals and concerns, while on the other hand it seems that these signals and concerns are not sufficient grounds for e.g. dismissing the board or closing the school. So most of all, I want to know if there are any things that just can't be shared. Then I can settle for that, but it would, I think, make this debate much clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u209	I will try to say it a little more clearly, because I may not have said it clearly enough. Well, that's my fault, Mr. Chairman. Sorry about that. One, these are signals that come from intelligence. This means that the letter "s' and you will also see that "s' does not contain certain elements in the field of sources and in the field of personal information. Nor can this be done in the context of the state interest. That's one. Two, I would like to stress that the signals as paraphrased on page 2 of the NCTV letter are the full signals that have also been sent to the government. But you do not see any sources and you do not see any specific names and such, because that would be partly contrary to the state interest and partly in conflict with personal situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u210	Mrs Westerveld, that was the answer. Yeah? Then I'll go to Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u211	It is indeed a train of interruptions, but that is understandable. I also understand part of the Minister's reply on the protection of sources. Of course we understand that. I think everyone else gets that, too, but it's good to figure it out. Then we'll get to the next point. It is said that it is a danger to security, it is antidemocratic or a danger to the democratic rule of law. But that school can't actually close. Then I am curious: if all this is going on, if lessons are being given there in anti-legal state, in anti-democracy and in national insecurity, what does such a lesson look like? Can the Minister mention a few elements of this? And where did those elements come from? How is such a lesson built up? What are the building blocks? Where did that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u212	Let us also make this clear: with the term "salafism," I refer to a fundamental interpretation of Sunni Islam. This includes a number of distinctive and distinctive doctrines. It is, and remains, like any -ism, a collective concept, and when it comes to people, we need to emphasise exactly how and what. The NCTV and the AIVD estimate that the way drivers promote the salafistic doctrines in the Netherlands contributes to active intolerance and can also contribute to radicalisation. That is, of course, the essence of the point you read in the letter. Here the services indicate or signal the AIVD, I must say, that there is a question of education. You have just heard me say 'one half of the curriculum of which would be devoted to the Salafist doctrine of religion and which clearly contain those anti-democratic and anti-integrative behaviours. If you look at the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, which we must continue to see as the underlying piece of this letter, we should not want it to be. This is contrary to our values, but it is also a threat to our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u213	I understand the pre-student answer about salafism, but there is no clear understanding of that in the services either. In the letter sent by the G4 under the leadership of Mayor Krikke of this city, I believe that the third paragraph of the first page states that schools like this are particularly affected by Islamic families, Islamic people in the Netherlands. I can imagine, because I know what is happening in The Hague. Arnoud van Doorn was a former PVV member, but also a member of the D66 team for nine years, I can tell you how to recruit locals here in schools to expand it in The Hague. I know that from the first hand of different teachers. His companion, co-founder of the foundation that matters, now has to go to jail for two months because of care fraud. Let that be said. We know what kind of people we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u214	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u215	But all the behavior of all these people and all the building blocks of the lessons that matter are from Koran, Sira and Hadith. Not only is Salafism a threat to national security, but Islam as a whole is. I would like to take a look at that from the Minister. I am sorry that this is going to be a little longer, Mr President, but this is an important debate. So it is not only salafism, but above all the whole Islamic doctrine of faith, which the minister dares not appoint. Then you get debates like this. Then you get U-turn constructions. Then you get that the edges of the law are sought by that school, but also by the Chamber. Then you won't come to a solution. We all need to be clear. I want a clear answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u216	I dispute that the services would not apply a single consistent definition in the area of salafism. They do precisely because there is sometimes some difference of opinion between people about that definition. They have a clear definition. It is widely used by scientists and governments in the Netherlands and the West; let that be clear. That's one. Secondly, I take great distance from the suggestion that this would be about Islam in general. I have just said that the term "salafism" refers to a fundamentalist interpretation of Sunni Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u217	You made that clear. I'm going to see Mr. Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u218	I hear our Minister of Justice and Security. He talks about "national importance" and "national security." Then it is difficult to understand that he cannot take sufficient measures to protect national security and national interest. Apparently, it can be done on the basis of 2:20 Civil Code at motor clubs and drug houses. The Minister must now reassure us that it is all being arranged. But when I read in the letter what the allegations are and when I hear the Minister's words like that, I honestly see very few obstacles to simply settling them. Can the Minister just reassure us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u219	Today's letter from the Minister of Education, also written on behalf of my colleague and myself, shows precisely that the government agreement provides for an extension of Article 2:20, so that you could include not only the activity but also the purpose of a legal person. That's one. Two: the National Coordinator has decided, under my responsibility, to release these signals in the context of national security. I hear people saying that it is not enough and that they want other measures, but under these circumstances it has been a very appropriate measure to make this known, especially in the school enrolment period. The fact that there is no criminal act at the time is another matter. But I've dealt with that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u220	Let me then ask about the timetable for adapting Article 2:20, because if we need that extension in order to be able to close a school or tackle the governance of a school, then I also need a timetable that we can focus on so that we know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u221	That Article 2:20 appears in the letter as an instrument that needs tightening up. As part of this legislative process, the draft law for internet consultation was introduced at the end of December. That's just gonna get its hands on it now. This process can, of course, be speeded up in consultation with the Chamber. That does not, of course, alter the fact that, if there are grounds for criminal or administrative action, I can be called upon at any time to ensure that the services under me will be vigilant in this respect. So there are instruments there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u222	The Minister has just quoted quite extensively from the letters. I believe that the whole Chamber, apart from the group of DENK, is extremely concerned. So we want legislation to prevent this. I would like to return to the point raised by Mr Jasper van Dijk: are we going to have this enlargement in order? Can we intervene? The Minister said that this is a test reason, but we are the legislative power, so we want to be able to make a real assessment of whether we will have the right instruments to prevent such a school from starting or closing. I would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u223	In general terms, of course, by tightening up Article 2:20 of the Civil Code, we are also able to address legal persons who, in our view, have an objective which is contrary to our democratic values and public order. So that instrument is, of course, intended for situations where we say that they are unacceptable. If I tell Mr Van Dijk that we have to be careful with a statement of reasons, it is because of course we still have to see each other: what will happen next and what will come out of an inspection? I am not going to go into that; that is all up to my colleague. The point is that a situation may develop in such a way that other instruments, such as those mentioned by Mrs Kuik, can now be used. A file is of course dynamic. But I do not want to run away from Mr Van Dijk with a comment in the vein: well, we are going to change that, but we have nothing to gain from it. No, of course that will certainly strengthen the position, also in that respect. Let me make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u224	Another instrument mentioned in the letter is Bibob legislation. At the moment there is no link to the Bibob Act when granting permits to schools. My question is whether it would be helpful if we did. In any case, then, we know whether this is perhaps an instrument that can be helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u225	This question wasn't asked in the first period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u226	Not by me, anyway. But since we are talking about the Minister's instruments, I ask the question. It hasn't been put by me before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u227	Okay, because the minister's been busy for two minutes with half an hour of interruptions, so I'm gonna take a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u228	Then I shall go ahead and perhaps come back to Mr Rog's question at the end. I have a few more questions to answer. I think I've already explained enough why they've been informed with a public letter. That was a question from Mr Azarkan. That has happened very clearly because, as Mr Van Dijk said, it is really a serious matter, which concerns national security. Then it is up to the NCTV and me to really bring that out. I have already said that, of course, police and prosecutors are constantly weighing the signals they are getting in. This is due to Mrs Westerveld's question. I am not going to go into that as Minister of Justice, because a minister should never go into it. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik asked to speak about the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. I constantly assess, as she knows from another debate, the information available to my department on relevance to these instruments. That information is also assessed in this case. I believe that there is currently no possibility of intervention under this Temporary Act to combat terrorism. The question of whether this will be different in the future cannot be discussed now. I think it's good to at least explain that. There was also a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u229	Maybe that was a question from Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u230	This is a question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u231	Okay. Then Mrs. Chicken first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u232	I asked about the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism, but also about the Municipal Act. You are therefore judging: no, these two laws do not at present provide enough comfort to intervene. Then the minister says he'll take a look at it. My assumption is that these two laws can be adapted more quickly than, for example, Article 2:20. That is quite a fundamental change, because it is both about religion and about political parties and is therefore going to produce a very broad debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u233	That's a very difficult assessment. I understand Mrs Kuik's point, but I have to say that the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism is a law which, in the light of our rule of law, always needs a sharp blow. And rightly so, I think. That must be very motivated, because you're just saying that someone, for example, can't go into a particular area. I believe that the amendment of that law in the consultation, for example from the Council of State, will also be subject to many critical considerations. I don't know if one is gonna be much faster than the other. The most important thing is that of that first law, of that Article 2:20, in the coalition agreement, it has been said that we are really working on it. Then I think that at least we will have a majority in the Chamber to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u234	Let me rephrase. I would like to call on you to include both the Municipal Law and this Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism in your legal analysis. If the Minister is only blind-tailed at 2:20, I think that's too limited. So in summary: also make a legal analysis of the possibilities and impossibilities of Article 174 or 174a and the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. That would be my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u235	I would like to repeat what I said at first. I fully understand the thinking, but a balance has been made and what I have just said has been noted. Then we really have to put the time, even here in this Chamber, and the human power we have at some point on something. I would like to remind you that, for example, the bill on a ban on staying in the terrorist area, which I describe, has also led to a lot of discussion. That wasn't because it wasn't a good idea, but also because you get all kinds of constitutional points from a consultation with each other. So we have to be realistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u236	Your second interruption, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u237	I am not prepared to accept that, especially when it comes to the amendment of the Municipal Law. So I am going to ask you to come back to that in the second term, because I really foresee that it may be an easier way, especially the City Act, than the road you are going on now with 2:20. I would also like to conclude here in the Chamber that there is a great deal of confusion about what exactly 2:20 is about. We don't know that bill either. I don't know if this is gonna help right now. Therefore my request, also towards that side...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u238	Which way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u239	Towards the officials who always support the minister so fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u240	They're not participating in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u241	So here's my request to investigate these two legal trails.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr. Chairman. I come back to Articles 174 and 175 of the Municipal Law in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u243	Fine. Many questions have been asked in the first term and two more ministers are going to speak. And there's also a climate crew waiting for a debate tonight. So I suggest that the Minister should answer the questions that were asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u244	I'm almost at the "other" folder, Mr. Chairman, so that's getting real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u245	Yes, there's a lot to be said for interruptions; I know that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u246	That's right. Mr. Chairman. I would like to explain to Mrs Westerveld a few words about the CTIVD. 'Cause she says, "Couldn't he be able to do it?" No, because the CTIVD supervises the legality of the activities of the intelligence and security services, including the STIVD. The CTIVD is therefore not there to carry out research itself. Mr Bruins asked whether there was a danger to public order. That's really up to the mayor of Amsterdam. She has reported to the city council that there is no acute danger to public order. Mr Van Dijk asked about the Bill on governance and supervision of legal entities. That bill is currently under discussion in your Chamber. In February of this year, I sent the letter to your Chamber following the further report and a second letter of amendment. So I guess that's running pretty well. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Graaf wondered whether the Cabinet shares the NCTV's vision of salafism. I think that has already been discussed at length. In my view, the answer to that question can be 'yes' for a short time. I have already explained a little more about the interruption earlier, so I will leave it at that. Okay, Mr. Chairman. In my view, these are the answers I had to give to questions that have been put to me. I'll give you the floor back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u247	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following on from my colleague, I will also address in particular the questions that have been raised about education legislation, its possibilities and perhaps also its potential, also in the context of the subject we are discussing today. Before I go into that, I would like to make two brief comments. Mrs Westerveld began her speech by asking the question: do we take it sufficiently seriously? There are several facts that I think make it clear that we are taking this seriously. I refer to the fact that the cabinet itself brought out this information. Furthermore, the cabinet looks as thoroughly as possible, also through investigations, what is going on. And it also examines all the possibilities and all the legal instruments that we have, to be able to use them even if there is reason to do so and if there is sufficient legal basis for it. I said in Question Time on Tuesday that our main reason was that we thought it important that this information should not remain in the rooms, but that parents who have students at that school could take that information into account in the choices they make. The same applies to parents who have the potential to opt for this school and who are currently thinking about the question of which school they are going to send their child to. Mr. Chairman. A second comment I would like to make relates to the freedom of education. A number of you have also made comments on this. We are very clear in that, I think. I repeat it to Mr Van Meenen this week for the second time, because I have already done so on Tuesday: freedom of education is not a free pass for bad education, but it is not a free pass to take advantage of that freedom. And precisely because we think that freedom is important, it is also important that we look at what we can and how we can act when there are suspicions. And sometimes there are hard clues, because there have of course been more cases, even in recent years. That is what this cabinet wants to do in that respect. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address the questions that have been raised about the conduct of the inspection, in the past and in the present. Secondly, I would like to highlight the possibilities already in place when it comes to legislation and regulation to intervene if there is sufficient legal basis and there are sufficient indications that it can be used. Thirdly, I will address questions that have been asked about what is still possible in the field of education legislation. A number of suggestions have also been made from the Chamber which I shall go into. Finally, I will answer a number of specific questions. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the way in which the inspection has worked with regard to this school and this board. I'm not going to pick up the entire history here in the run-up to the moment this school could open. The Chamber has been thoroughly informed about this in recent years. It's been a long-year thing. Indeed, there have been a lot of legal moments. Some of them, I think, were named 42. We didn't count it all, but it's been a lot. These include legal activities from SIO but also De Ozonelag and other foundations. There too there have been all kinds of legal moments. So maybe you can get this far, but just as specific about this school. My predecessor has been working on this and has said at a certain point that there are real suspicions that this school will not meet the conditions for funding. He also indicated that he would not pay. The inspection has already tried in the preliminary phase to get the finger behind it. In the end, this led to a lawsuit, because at that time there was insufficient legal basis for it. In the end, this resulted in a very long story, a statement by the Council of State in July 2017 that the decision taken by my predecessor had to be destroyed. That eventually meant that the school could open its doors. This is a very preliminary process in which the inspection has already acted but could not, in the end, do what one wanted to do because the legislation did not allow it, which was even ruled out by the judge. When the school started, the inspection immediately did everything that's supposed to happen when a new school is started. So the supervision that goes with that is just done. But they have done something additional: they have also accelerated this school in view of its history and its discussions in the four-year study. Normally it takes a little longer, but that's accelerated here. It's okay to do that, by the way. That means there's been a lot of research. Of course, that research is not without obligation either. There are frameworks for that and they have been shared with the Chamber. You know that the Research Framework is secondary education from 2017. In accordance with that framework, we are living in a rule of law and the inspection has, in recent years, assessed this school by means of school visits and speaking of people to the school, studying documents and so on, and so on. Eventually, the inspection was in the process of completing the report she was making. That hadn't happened yet. A report that has not yet been officially adopted is in fact, I would say, a non-existent report. Of course, it's there on paper, but it's all a concept. It's not up to us to interfere. You know the discussions about independent supervision and a government that would like to interfere. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So I don't know that report either. I asked for clarification on what came out of that draft report this week. Indeed, if you comply with certain standards in accordance with the review framework used by the inspection, an assessment "integer" or "transparent" may result. Those are all terms you'll find in the review framework. Each school is, of course, assessed in the same way from this review framework. But this report has not been officially adopted, so it does not exist in principle. On the basis of the signals received, the inspection itself saw reason not to adopt this report officially either, which is a major annoyance for the SIO administration, which even once went to the inspection with a bus full of children to demonstrate there and to indicate 'we want to see that report'. That's all public information that's been in the papers. That happened a few months ago. The inspection has said: no, we are going to investigate in depth. That means that you really go a bit deeper, based on the worrying signals that came through the AIVD. There are also frameworks for this. Again, we live in a rule of law. Each school must also be treated in the same way. A research plan has therefore been drawn up very quickly, which has also been shared with the school. The inspection then continued, with the visits to the school, but also with all kinds of research around it. That investigation goes beyond the ordinary, regular investigation, which again fits the review framework I was just talking about. Mr. Chairman. This concerns the draft report and the way in which the inspection was carried out. When it comes to the visits they wanted to make to the school, we always know: this is announced, but it is also happening unannounced. Last week, that was the visit of 6 March; I also spoke on Tuesday, the situation was such that the inspection came unannounced and eventually did not feel safe enough to continue the work there. The school itself said in the media: "How can that be? They were just allowed to do their research. We didn't stop that at all. We even made follow-up agreements." That has also led me to ask again more precisely what happened in that school. What I can share with you is that the driver did indeed say that he did not want to hinder the investigation, but I quote what the inspection indicated to me at this point: "(...) but he did say that if the class visits were to take place, there might be disturbances of order. He also said that in that case he would not be able to control his people." If those are the texts, then you will of course feel that the inspection is no longer safe to continue the work there. So they left. Afterwards, the school board itself also reacted towards the inspection, including through a lawyer. It has been said that we intend to bring interim proceedings against the school. You have to have time for that, but in the end that hasn't come yet. The inspection itself has indeed said: we are simply going to resume our announced visits. Today, these visits have resumed. It goes without saying that information will also be collected around it in a variety of ways, which is also part of what is an in-depth investigation. This is done in accordance with the three lines I mentioned in Question Time last Tuesday, which you also found in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u249	I see you want to interrupt, Mr. Van Dijk. I'll see if the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u250	One more comment on this point, Madam President. Should the inspection be further hampered in its work, I have the opportunity to suspend the funding. I also said this week that the law on secondary education offers opportunities for this. The investigation has now taken place again. I also said to you on Tuesday: we will see what the words that people wanted to offer space are worth. But again, this is something that does belong to our legal instruments. I won't hesitate to put that in when it's gonna happen again. The inspection has also indicated that it will also make a declaration to the Public Prosecutor at the time of this occurrence. As you know, non-cooperation in inspection investigations has been punishable by Article 184 of the Criminal Code. Then the prosecution will have to proceed on that basis as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u251	You can't do this! What the Minister has just said is unbelievable! The inspection has all made announced visits, and on this basis a draft report has been prepared which states: the school is excellent. That report has been leaked, as it turned out yesterday at EenVandaag. Then the AIVD discovers terrorist ties, salafistic influences, antidemocratic education, and says the inspection: ho, wait with the final version. You can't do this! I have great respect for the inspection. He's doing a very important job, but he's been paged right here in front of us. The one time the inspection comes by unannounced, the school manager says: I cannot vouch for what the teachers are going to do. You can't do this! Minister, please close that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u252	I have just indicated in accordance with which legal frameworks, which have also been established by your Chamber, the inspection must act and also investigate a school. I have also indicated here that the signals that came in were indeed serious and that they gave rise to the inspection to carry out the further in-depth investigation. There was plenty of reason to do that. The report has never been published and has never been formally adopted. In principle, therefore, it does not exist. Something leaked, but I didn't see it either. I don't even want to see it. I don't want to be on draft inspection reports. That's not our role. We must always wait for reports to be officially adopted. But that's why we're doing the further investigation. I have also indicated that the way in which the inspection was carried out in the school last week is indeed not acceptable. At the moment that this is repeated, we have a toolbox for this, which will also be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u253	But isn't that too late? The inspection has now made one unannounced visit. It has been pointed out and is in fact threatened by the school leadership. From now on, things are of course tip-top again and they play nice again. If it's not too late, I'll ask the Minister. Didn't this school have its chance? I ask the Minister to reflect very honestly, because I know he has great respect for the inspection. I do, but hasn't the inspection been paged in this case? Does the Minister want to reflect on that? What happened here, it can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u254	The inspection shall carry out its work from the legal frameworks established for that purpose. Those are also determined by you, because they pass the Chamber. The review framework I mentioned, from 2017, has also gone to the Chamber neatly. You know all about that. It's been discussed, too. On that basis one must act and one has acted. I think the inspection has been done in a very good way. At the time of receiving signals, they said: "We are not going to complete this route now, because from a completely different angle, namely from the AIVD, an institute that does research in a very different way than the inspection, it turns out to come to us information that really gives us reason to further increase the intensity of our research. We now also have a legal basis for this." I believe that we have acted in accordance with laws and regulations. Of course, it's very annoying and unacceptable when you're placed in such a situation that you just want to do your job and come to you with these kind of words, making you not feel safe. I think I've been very clear about that. Fortunately, this is very rare, but it is not acceptable and it is also clear what we are doing when it continues. I have also spoken very clearly about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u255	I am looking at Mr Jasper van Dijk. The number of interruptions is limited, but I also know that the questions need to be answered. Otherwise, it will be a difficult debate. Let me see if the question has been answered. If so, I will go to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u256	Very briefly, then, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says I can deal with the school at the moment when the inspection is refused. That's what happened. The inspection has been denied. Why don't you intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u257	I indicated that after the inspection had left, the comment from the school came to the inspection that an interim action would be brought. Well, then it's reasonable that you give yourself a little time to file such an interim injunction. No use has been made of that. At that time, however, the agreement was made that the inspection would come back and that she would continue her investigation. It is a misconception that information is only collected during school visits. That goes on. Certainly in the in-depth research that goes many times further. Eventually, the inspection continued at the beginning of the week, including the in-depth investigations. She also went back to the school today and she has been given the space to continue the investigation. At least I haven't had any reports that this has changed. Of course, we have an interest in good research being done. I can only use my measure when the investigation is refused, when there is no room. We do want to see further consideration, talk and learning plans and so on: everything that goes with the work of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u258	For very different reasons in the past, I have sometimes argued in favour of making unexpected visits. Then you get the best view of what really happens in schools. But here is of course a reason to visit again unexpectedly, namely the report of the AIVD. Then it happens and then there is a serious threat and the inspection simply cannot carry out its work. I find it incomprehensible, like Mr Van Dijk, that this sanction should not be imposed at that moment, but that it should be delayed because the school wants to start an interim ruling. It's like: "Well, if you start a brief trial first, we'll wait for sanctions." That seems to me to be the opposite world. I believe that the Minister is as secretive about the preliminary inspection report as the Minister of Justice and Security does about the AIVD report. At the AIVD, I understand that, but with the preliminary inspection report, I don't understand. And actually, I just want to see that report right now, because I think it is very important to see what the inspection has initially detected, and I want to compare that with what the AIVD is doing next. In my view, that gives an idea of how much the inspection has been put on the wrong foot here. So I propose to suspend very specifically just to see the preliminary report of the inspection, which is not a secret piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u259	First, I'm gonna see what the Minister's answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u260	That preliminary report belongs to the research group that's working on that school. It has not been formally established. So it doesn't have formal status in that sense either. I don't know it. The Chief Inspector of Education doesn't know it either, because it's really something that's lying there. It is precisely because these signals have been received that agreements have been made to carry out further in-depth research because there was reason to do so. Then we will also have to wait and see what comes out of the official report. I have no authority to request preliminary reports. In fact, we must also keep away from inspections when it comes to reports they make. There are also debates in the Chamber about influencing reports and suspicions about them. We don't have to deal with that. Not until it's formally established can we get reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u261	I've seen countless preliminary inspection reports in my life. They were about my school and then I was allowed to respond. That's exactly the moment that hasn't happened here. The report was there, but it was no longer submitted to the school, because that message came from the AIVD in the meantime. So that interim report is just there. To be honest, I really do think that this is a very formal reason for saying that we do not have that report. I would simply ask the Minister to do everything in his power to ensure that we can now see that report. I'll leave it at that. Point of order, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u262	Let me make a point of order. Mr. Van Meenen, what exactly is your point of order? Then you really need to describe it exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u263	I want the committee, here in this sitting, to have the opportunity to see that preliminary report. I just want to know what was in it and not through RTL or who was in it, but just through the Minister, and how this relates to the findings of the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u264	I have just indicated our position with regard to the functioning of the inspection and the way in which it finally adopts reports. Mr Van Meenen can call that 'formal', but I think it is very important that we stick to the rules and the agreements that have been made. It goes without saying that Mr Van Meenen has had access to reports in a former position as school leader, because there is always consultation between inspection and school leaders to draw up an official report. Then the findings of the preliminary report can be taken into account, and only then will it be officially established. That's when things go public. I don't have the authority to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u265	That is the Minister's answer. Let me now look at what other spokesmen think of that, because it is a point of order. I think it was Mrs Westerveld's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u266	I believe that this point of order creates a difficult situation, because I have seen the report, for example. I know it sings in the press, too. So you get a bit of a crazy situation if some people here at least have been able to see the report, and some journalists at least have the report, when we can't talk about it here. So I don't really know how to react. But it's a crazy situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u267	I don't need the inspection report, but I think it's a logical request in itself. If there's a need and the report's already circulating, it's a matter of spreading and suspending for half an hour, so we can all read it. Then we can move on after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u268	I do not need that report in order to continue this debate. I think it's something we can take to ourselves afterwards and relate to other insights, but to suspend the debate now, I really think it's a shame. I think we're on a very good course to come to a conclusion. That's why I'm here at the microphone. I don't need the suspension and the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u269	I have also asked a number of critical questions about that report. I need that. I think it would be good if we all had the same information. I do not have that report, so I would also like to read it, and as Mr Van Meenen says, I would like to suspend it briefly. Whether Mrs Westerveld can share that or the minister or anyone else, I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u270	I, too, would like to have the same information as colleagues. I didn't see it. It seems to me right that we should suspend for a while, so that everyone here has the same information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u271	I could continue the debate because I have a lot of relevant questions and hear a lot of things I want to talk about. I didn't see that report. I heard about it in one day. I referred to that as well. It's not necessary for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u272	Two things are going on. There is the content of a preliminary report, which I have not seen and which, in itself, is not of immediate importance. The most important thing I have heard here is that the inspection has been Islamicly chased out of school because world authority is not recognised. That's what's going on at that school. But I would like to give all my fellow Members, and myself, of course, an insight into that report for the course of the debate, so I would like Mr Van Meenen's request to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u273	I don't need to see that report right now. I also respect the separation between the supervisory body and the ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u274	In preparing for this debate, I took note from the media of what was in that report. I didn't feel the need to take that report on my own, because that's not what the debate is about, so I don't have to. I understand that colleagues are asking that, but I do not support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u275	No, that report was discussed yesterday at EenVandaag. I've seen that broadcast. In that respect, we do not need to suspend to get that report again. It would be good if the Minister were to spread that, but I would much rather he give that other report, which contains the facts of the AIVD about which there is so much fuss now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u276	Didn't I give you the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u277	Yes, but I'm waiting for the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u278	Oh, that'll take a while. No, there is no majority in favour of Mr Van Meenen's order proposal, so we will continue. Where were we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u279	Mr. Chairman. I was at the end of my first part, about how the inspection was going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u280	I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u281	I'm done with that first part. I want to go to my second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u282	Yes, but there are three MPs who would like to ask a question. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u283	I share the surprise, as expressed by Mr Van Dijk and others, at the fact that the inspection did not act immediately after access to the school had been refused or she had been expelled. As an example, I would like to mention the construction inspections. They have a suspensive effect. Then the place will simply be shut down until measures have been taken or a proper inspection has been carried out. My question is why it was not chosen. You can have an interim injunction, but until then, you can shut down the place until an inspection has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u284	The inspection is carried out on the basis of laws and regulations, as I have just indicated, but that also applies to the possibilities we have. So at the time when an inspection is refused, we do indeed have the opportunity to suspend the funding. We cannot completely stop it until the next visit takes place again and there is room for inspection to do its job. Between that and what's going on here, there's a couple of days. Fortunately, the research continued very quickly, because I think that is what we want: we just want the facts to come up. These are the frameworks within which we work. We have no other options, because, once again, this is the legal framework within which we work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u285	Yeah, I'm concluding...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u287	Sorry, Chairman. I would like to conclude that the Minister is giving a false presentation of things here. The school refused the inspection. Subsequently, the inspection did not act. The investigation has started, but no inspection has yet been carried out. My question is therefore specific: has the subsidy now been suspended? I think the answer to that is no. Have any measures been taken? I think the answer to that is also no. So in other words, were there any options? Yes. Did the Minister choose that? No. And my question is, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u288	No, this is a misunderstanding. The inspection has continued with her investigation. That doesn't just mean, as I just said, that you're doing school visits and watching the school, announcing and unannounced. No, I have also made it clear to you that in the in-depth research that has now begun, the administrative structure is also being looked at. I told you that on Tuesday, and you found it in the letter. In addition, additional and in-depth financial research is being carried out, including on the administration. Of course, that could go on for the past week. What has just stood still for a short while are the school visits. They could not take place, but fortunately they have resumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u289	Last interruption, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u290	On the basis of what the Minister is telling me, I note that the subsidy could have been suspended and that measures could have been taken. It could have been said to this school: you are closing right now. And the Minister himself chose not to. I really don't understand. It's a missed opportunity. And I'd say take that back. This is the moment. We will be asking for a Chamber ruling on this later. Reapply. The inspection has been refused, so you can suspend the subsidy on the basis of that fact alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u291	I just indicated that you can suspend the grant at the time the access is denied. And it should be resumed immediately when the inspection again tries, as has happened this week, to conduct school research. And that's just started again. So the legal ground that would be in favour of suspending the grant or in this case the funding for a long time would not have been there either. Again, the visits have started again and the schools are being looked at again. And that's what it's all about in the end. That's the basis we have. It is not that you can throw a school completely shut down and so the funding can stop completely structurally at the time when the inspection is once seriously, as I have also indicated, unable to do her work, which is highly unusual and undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u292	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u293	I don't share that analysis. The inspection has not been completed. I still believe, on the basis of the answers given by the Minister, that the grant could actually have been suspended. The inspection has not been completed. I think you can say, as with construction inspections, I'll lock you up until the investigation is complete. If that is not possible on the basis of the legislation, but I do not share it, then I am going to table a motion later and we are going to deal with it immediately. 'Cause it's crazy if you can't. Once again, Minister, I believe you have the instruments in your hands. Now trade. It is necessary for the sake of those children and for the sake of our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u294	Now that the school visits have also started again, I have no legal basis for legally suspending the funding on that point. This can only be done at the time of refusal to make those school visits. And if this happens in a structural way, then that funding will indeed be structurally suspended, with all the consequences for the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u295	Then I'm going to... Who was next, anyway? Mr. Rog. No, Mr. Heerema!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u296	That's right, Mr. Chairman. This gives an unsatisfactory feeling. In the first instance, we have, in a very broad sense, mentioned in this Chamber all kinds of laws that we believe could or should have been explored in order to take action: the education law, the municipal law, the anti-terrorism law, the civil code, criminal law. And your fellow minister just came up with the law banning terrorist territory. The impression was that no measures could be taken. I hear the Minister now saying that a measure could have been taken on the basis of Article 104. I understand your course, I understand your route, but I don't share it; I'll tell you right away. I do not share it, among other things, because I have just heard you say that the announced visits have resumed. I don't like that. I think that, especially at this school, unannounced visits should be the next step in testing the school. So my question is: is that in there, is that going to happen now? A second question is: can you not ensure that the education inspectorate is present at that school on a daily basis to see what is happening there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u297	If I said yes to that last question, that would be an announced visit, structural. You have rightly asked me whether unannounced visits are being made. Of course it will. That goes without saying. It is up to the inspection to make its choices, because if we were to share the data here, it would not be unannounced. So that's just going to happen. You referred to other possibilities we have. I'll come back to that later. I took this out in the context of what the inspection did and how it was obstructed last week during that school visit on 6 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u298	I share the words of Mr Van Dijk of the SP: this cannot be done; it is unacceptable that the education inspection should in fact be expelled from school. We really need something with that. If that measure is possible, we really need to take this up. You have literally said that the announced visits will be resumed. I understand now that unannounced visits will also be made. I don't need to know dates; nobody needs to know dates. But since you put the emphasis on announced visits, I was assuming for a moment that the school would decide what would happen to the education inspection. I'd like confirmation that it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u299	It goes without saying that this is not the case. I shall go back to the situation as it was before the foundation of the school with regard to the wishes we have for how action should be taken. You have seen what happens when you use instruments that the judge later says "you shouldn't have" and even decisions are destroyed. We have to do this with all due care. That's my job, so you can ask me as a ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u300	Even before the AIVD found that this school was a danger to national security, it was already known that there were drivers with IS-sympathies, that there was training, that the inspection was obstructed. I find it rather staggering to hear now that there has been no intervention, even though that possibility was there, for example after the inspection was denied access. I think we should ask the Minister not only to look at new legislation, but also to look back: how did this go? I think we can expect the Minister to see that this is wrong. A funding measure should have been taken. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u301	I have just indicated what happened last week and what is our clear view in the event that this would happen again. There is also a difference of opinion as to whether it should have happened immediately or whether it should not have happened again within a very short period of time, and if such a situation had arisen again. It's been the way it was. It is not up to the inspection, it is up to the legislator, the government, to take such a financing measure in the end. I indicated that I would not have run away from that if this had happened again, but fortunately the visits have been resumed, announced and unannounced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u302	Let me take a look back at the facts that have been sent to the Chamber, for which I am grateful. I may have read it wrong, but I would like to hear it from the Minister that, in fact, after the start of the school, the adequacy requirements have not been met within three months. In my view, that too could have led to a sanction, a financial sanction. Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u303	Mr Rog is well aware of the general situation: at the moment when a school is found to be defective, the school is asked by law and regulation to restore it. Time limits are given for this. Then there are repair orders. Only when one fails to comply with these repair orders can a financing measure be taken. In this way all schools are looked at, including this school. That is the way the inspection has acted, and that is how it should act. That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u304	It's a good thing the Minister is intensifying surveillance. He describes what that means. I know that sometimes, in cases where social security at a school is at stake, the Minister also orders research involving all teachers, all parents and pupils being questioned, questionnaires being circulated and conversations taking place. In short, a very intensive form of supervision. Have we reached this school yet when the Minister says: yes, that is already happening here? And if not, when is this gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u305	It is part of deeper supervision that, to put it mildly, a little bit stronger is added, also with regard to all kinds of conversations with people around the school. This is part of the instruments of inspection, and this is also being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u306	Is the Minister ready for this to take place at this school or to take place soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u307	The in-depth research has now begun and is currently being carried out, also in accordance with the three lines I mentioned on Tuesday and mentioned in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u308	I assume that the Minister will come back to a few points I mentioned, including the motion adopted in 2016 and the reference to a number of articles in the legislation, which would allow action to be taken in the sense of financing measures. I just want to talk about one point that is still a little bit harsh. We see a accumulation of all kinds of things. That's where the story of the AIVD gets over it. Then the inspection goes to the school and then an extremely annoying incident occurs: the inspection does not get access to the school, because 'we cannot guarantee safety'. Has it been considered that, on the basis of the fact that this accumulates, it is not an isolated incident that occurs, but yet another point: the partial or total suspension of the funding and recovery of this action only after the inspection has completed the investigation and made an unannounced visit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u309	I think I just answered that. That has not changed in relation to what I said earlier. It is important that the in-depth investigation that this calendar year has been picked up in full intensity and firmness can continue. Fortunately, we can see that the inspection is back on track on all the lines there are, including through the announced and unannounced school visits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u310	Thank you. That's what I heard, of course. The question remains how you can be sure that you won't be confronted with windowdressing again or getting rid of things that can't get through the inspection bracket. How can you be sure you have a really good picture of that school? That's the point. I would like a good answer from the Minister, but I do not know if that will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u311	Well, we're gonna hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u312	We can never give absolute certainty in the sense that at the time when a report finally comes out somewhere, we can say that that is really everything. You know that there are other lines of work. You have just heard my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. Other colleagues also have opportunities for further research. We hope, of course, that the serious signals that we have received and the investigations that are currently taking place will ultimately give us the clarity we need, also in order to draw final conclusions and then to be able to assess what instruments we can use definitively if this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u313	I would like to go back to that one moment when, in my view, something could have happened: the unexpected visit to the school. Not just an unexpected visit that can still happen, but an unexpected visit with a report by the AIVD with all sorts of very disturbing messages. What happens then? The inspection is threatened, sent away, the door is pointed. My question to the Minister is: what happened? What are the considerations at the Ministry at such a time? What's going on in there? They're just threatening inspectors. Next to you is a minister who says we have to do everything we can to protect people who work for us in the public domain. So far, I have not heard more than has been said: well, we are waiting for the school to bring an interim ruling. Perhaps the Minister could give me some insight into what the thoughts are then being developed in that ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u314	First of all, the research was already under way, but this was part of the wide-ranging research that took place. Indeed, it is not acceptable if that happens. I just indicated how the interview went between the inspection itself and the school. The inspection has indicated: but we are coming back; we are not going to be sent away in this way. Even though the school said they didn't send the inspectors away, they didn't feel safe enough to do so. The inspection also indicated when the announced visits would take place. And in the meantime, they have just continued with the studies that took place in addition to the school visit. The school has immediately indicated that there is room again, because that was not our intention; we will participate in a follow-up investigation. That all in all, has led to this situation. I think I have just spoken clear words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u315	Okay, I've already told you how I feel about that. One more question: how many unexpected visits have taken place since then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u316	I don't know those numbers. I do know that the inspection is unannounced and announced. She is also investigating through other lines. That's what we leave with the inspection. They have to do their job. They're doing this in-depth investigation. As soon as the investigation is completed, I think we will also receive more information about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u317	Let me ask you a very factual question. I would like to hear the answer to that question in the second term. That is the question of how many of these unexpected investigations have been there since then and whether they have gone smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u318	I don't know if that's possible. I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u319	I do not know exactly what Mr Van Meenen means by'since that time'. Does he mean since last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u320	No, since the unexpected visit where that incident took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u321	That's since last week. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u322	Good. Maybe it's possible to get back to that. Otherwise, we'll hear about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u323	That last question is relevant. I also asked the first time how it could have been known at least from 15 January that there was a lot going on in the Ministry, and that it was not until 6 March that the inspection carried out an unannounced visit to the school. Was the inspection also aware from January that there were disturbing signals after all, or not? And if the inspection was aware, why hasn't there been an unannounced visit before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u324	I just answered that. The study was carried out in the framework of the four-year studies, which had been applied more rapidly at this school. When the signals came in, the inspection went to what we call the "deepening investigations" in research jargon. I have also indicated that a research plan needs to be drawn up. That needs to be shared with the school. That's what happened. At that time, the research was started through the different lines that exist. And this was indeed the unannounced visit that took place, in which the situation that we have just discussed in detail with each other arose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u325	I have heard what the Minister has just said, but my question is: had the inspection been informed of the disturbing signals since mid-January and, if so, why was the first unannounced visit not made until 6 March? That seems to me to be a very essential part of a study, especially if the inspection earlier found that at least the quality of education is in order and compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u326	At the request of Mr Rog, we also sent a factual account of the scheme. You can also find information about this. The inspection was informed. That's the reason for the inspection to keep the report. That has been the reason for the inspection to do that in-depth investigation. That's been started, too. And indeed, this was an unannounced visit that did not go well. But they work on all kinds of lines. It really is a misconception to think that only the school visits bring the information to the table. No, there's also financial research going on. That's what happened in the last week. The administration of the school is not in the school but in another place. That's where they're going. That's what people do unannounced. In short, we are working in this way too. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the possibilities to intervene. In any event, in the letter you received today, we indicate the general possibilities that exist to stop funding. This has to do, among other things, with the quality of education. If it is long below the level, if there is very weak education, if the student numbers are long below the minimum, if there is reason to ask questions about safety, in this case about anti-democratic influences, then there are an x-number of articles of law that we have mentioned in the letter and which offer us opportunities to intervene. Mr Bishop referred to it. I refer to Article 104 of the Secondary Education Act, Article 3b, Article 23a, Article 17 and Article 130g. Those articles relate, for example, to non-compliance with the conditions of funding, to deficiencies in security, to the situation where the quality of education is below the level, to the situation where there is insufficient work to be done on citizenship, and we know that this is a very weak article, or to the illegal use of funding. If this has been established, an officially established inspection report should be attached to....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then repair orders have already been given from the inspection. You can also give an indication to the competent authority to intervene with the driver or the school leaders. Besides, you can stop the funding. The facts must be established and there must be an official report. Then you can activate it. We have not been able to make use of it at the moment, because investigations are still ongoing. We will, of course, have to wait and see. Normally, the inspection combines it, but I told the inspection that if there are clear indications around one of these subjects that there has been a breach of the rules, I would like to know that so that we can act immediately. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog asked me the following question. Suppose the school says, "Don't let the government finance it," then we can go all the way. Of course, money flows that come from outside are being monitored. That is also a big issue in the Chamber. It is not the case that if it becomes a non-cost institution, inspection supervision will stop. I have sent you a letter quite recently, a few weeks ago, on how it works in private schools, in non-cost education. In that case, the inspection will also be subject to full supervision. With this framework, we can also get out of the way of non-cost education. We are going to change it at one point, and that is the changes we are going to introduce about citizenship, because we also want to be able to control the unpaid schools on the basis of the legislation we are amending. So that will then be taken into account in the monitoring of private education in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u327	Good. Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u328	I have, I think, indicated what our possibilities are, also of the laws and regulations, and how we can apply them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u329	Yes, but I want to know if you're done with this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u330	Yes. Then I've finished this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u331	Good. Then I will go to Mr Rudmer Heerema, because I have agreed with the Members of Parliament on a number of interruptions, but I am actually going to ask about how or when a report comes to the Chamber, not consider it an interruption. If you don't, you're done talking fast. It is not a bad thing either, but in this case I think it is important to go through facts as well. Mr. Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u332	Mr President, thank you very much for this generosity. We have heard the Minister of Justice and Security and now also the Minister of Education are talking about investigations that are taking place and we have to wait and see. We Members of Parliament have already indicated in our term that we need to hear how long it will take. I do not hear the ministers indicate a timetable for this. That is why my question to the Minister is: can you now indicate how long that will take? Because an investigation may take two or three years, but if we do it faster, it may just be completed in a few months, and we need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u333	Concrete question, concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u334	That is also the assessment we are making. It is research that we do not do ourselves, so we have to wait and see what ultimately comes to us from those who are competent to do so and do this research. But we assume that we will be able to get that information within a few months. I have just indicated to you that, if anything can come to us more quickly around sub-items, I have asked the inspection to do so and not to wait until all the investigations have been completed and there is a final report. So towards the summer we will certainly get these reports as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u335	Summer 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u336	Yeah, summer of 2019. Let me reassure you of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u337	That's great. Make every effort to complete the research process before the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u338	We hope that's gonna work, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u339	Mr Jasper van Dijk, one of those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u340	Well, the minister just mentioned all the laws that can be changed. There's actually only one question that's relevant to me. It is crazy that no action has been taken before, but well, the government can save its honour by saying: we are going to take measures now, so that such a school cannot be opened up in future. Can he give us a guarantee that with the laws announced in his own letter this school will not be able to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u341	I just got to that part, so I hadn't had that yet. I'll take this question with me. We are indeed in the process of doing so, and the case of this school, to put it this way, has also played a role in the forming parties in order to ensure that at least two laws provide for additional instruments, in order to avoid a situation such as that which has occurred in the foundation of this school, and b to be able to intervene more specifically in the suspicions that we have of anti-democratic influence. Those suspicions must therefore be demonstrated. The first law is the bill More room for new schools, which I have already said this week could also mean less room for new schools. The purpose of this law is to ensure that the front is looked very closely, including at drivers, and that the inspection can also do so. When we look at this school, the judge said in the preliminaries: no, there's no legal basis for that. That law is in the Chamber. It's been there for some time since October. We are now completing 315 written questions that have been asked. We hope to be able to send the answers to the Chamber within a very short period of time. Then we can quickly continue the debate on this, I hope, if it is scheduled. This concerns the establishment of new schools. The new citizenship law is currently in the hands of the Council of State. We hope that it will come to us at the end of March and early April. I have already indicated on Tuesday that we are not talking about the time frame in which the Council of State concludes it, but it will be rather quick. We will inform the Chamber of the state of play, because Mr Heerema also said: preferably as soon as possible. I think that's gonna be real soon. Of course, that advice will have to be processed for a while, because I do not know what the advice is. Perhaps that will take some time, but of course it will come to the Chamber as soon as possible through the Council of Ministers. Then we can talk about this. That law does offer us the opportunity to put schools in a much more targeted position that, first of all, they are actually working on citizenship. Because, as I indicated earlier, the current law can be put to good use very quickly. Secondly, it calls on the school administrators to organise an environment in the school for pupils to be prepared for society and not turned their backs on society, in which this anti-democratic influence could take place. At the time when this is the case, this law provides legal tools to stop funding. This is an addition to the instruments that we now have, because we have noted that it is now particularly difficult on this subject to be able to act more strictly in the direction of schools. This immediately makes it clear that, under Article 23, it is simply possible to tighten up the remit of the public authorities by means of this legislation and to provide the possibility for inspection to be more closely monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u342	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u343	In any case, when it came to the two laws that Mr Van Dijk asked for. I hope I have also been able to answer him that at least that second law offers a possibility. There is one more part that was mentioned in the letter. The educational spokesmen who have been through the debates on VMBO Maastricht remember that if there is a crisis or calamity, the government really does not have enough opportunities to intervene in this direction. At that time, we agreed with the Chamber that we would come back before the summer with opportunities to provide for this. I would add, as I said to the committee at the time, that this must, of course, be done very carefully. We live in a rule of law here. It shouldn't be arbitrary, either. That must therefore be carefully dressed, but it could have been appropriate in this situation and could have been used if you receive such signals. Then you can get a little tighter in the direction of a school. So that could be an addition to the instruments that we are now thinking of in a very specific way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u344	I'm quite sceptical about those first two laws, to be honest. The first one is about new schools, but this isn't. The second is about citizenship, but I think it takes a lot of time. And a lot of beautiful things can be said on paper while it is disappointing in practice. Remains about that possibility to throw away drivers. I think that's a good route. The clue, it's called technical. Can the Secondary Education Act not be adapted so that you could send away a driver not only because of financial malpractice, but also because of anti-democratic views or anti-integration concepts? That would be my route. I think all those other routes are way too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u345	I think you should suspend your judgment of the Citizenship Act until it really is with you and you can judge it. I am convinced that these opportunities are going to offer. That is also a direct answer to a question from Mr Rog, who asked whether the power of designation, which is part of those other laws, could not also be used in the p.o. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the work he has done on this subject. Actually, that's what you're saying. I am prepared to map that when we come up with the Citizenship Act, to consider whether we believe that the Citizenship Act provides sufficient tools. If you consider it insufficient, we can see whether we could also amend the other legislation on this point. But I think it is a good thing to wait for the law on citizenship, because then we have a law that we can actually work on and in which we can propose any changes. I have already promised the Chamber that, on the basis of this case, I will look at this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u346	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u347	Why is the Minister so careful? I do not get the impression that, with the new instruments he is announcing, he can say with certainty that this school can be turned off with these drivers. That guarantee, that reassurance, the Chamber wants, and I think society wants, too. Does the Minister now make laws that ensure that such people, who run this school, simply do not have any chance of being able to run such a school in the future? Should the Minister not broaden the possibility of dismissing directors if they are spreading anti-integration or anti-democratic views? Does the Minister share the view that he really needs to guarantee this in order to reassure society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u348	I have already said what we can do to drivers in the context of guidance, also in accordance with current legislation and regulations. But I have also indicated that there must be sufficient basis to apply it. One knows what happens if one does not do that properly, also taking into account what a judge can then judge. There must therefore be reports, as we have agreed, which show that things have been done that go against laws and regulations. Then I won't hesitate to use that clue. I think that Mr Van Dijk is somewhat lacking in what we are now going to develop additional instruments, also in view of what I have just said about what we have already agreed on around the Maastricht VMBO. That's going very far. That's really going very far. I hope that we will be able to discuss this with each other before the summer. We can then assess whether we consider that to be justified, yes or no. Mr. Chairman. I have a few short questions to answer, then I can finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u349	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u350	Mr Bishop asked for his motion which was adopted in October 2016, but which, if my information is correct, was submitted in September 2016. That motion was part of a debate, particularly in the field of higher education. At that time, there was a discussion about the Islamic University of Rotterdam. That motion was carried out, even wider than Mr Bishop intended, because his motion was aimed at non-cost education. Mr Van Meenen has asked questions about the changes that have taken place in the Higher Education Act regarding the promotion of social responsibility among students, but those changes were actually a direct effect of that motion. This is not just about non-expensive education. Mr Bishop has been served even more widely, because it also concerns the funded education. But that is indeed only about higher education. The question is also, partly in relation to what I have just said about citizenship, whether it is necessary for us to include it in the p.o. In this way, the demands on citizenship are much tighter, and also on the supervision of p.o. and is much tighter than is the case in higher education. However, I am prepared, I say to Mr Van Meenen, to take this into account in the consideration that we will shortly have to make whether the Citizenship Act provides sufficient guidance on this point, or whether it is necessary to do something further there. We can talk about this in the short term. Mr Van Meenen also asked whether there should be a vog for drivers. More room for new schools is provided for the obligation to own a vog for administrators and supervisors who wish to establish a new school, so we have included that in any case. Mr Rog had another question about the Bibob Act, which I can answer from my responsibility. If there is a real use of educational benefits for committing criminal offences, there must of course be a basis for establishing this. Then it is indeed possible to intervene in this way. This is additional to what is possible under education legislation. That is indeed also an instrument that exists. But once again, as is the case with everything else, there must be sufficient ground for such an instrument to be used in the end. We are now at the stage of examining all this and I hope to reach conclusions soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u351	Have all the questions been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u352	I've had a lot of them. I have tried to do justice to the people and also to your remark, Mr President, that I had to try to keep it compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u353	Yeah, you're done, I can see that, but I just want to give you the opportunity for questions that haven't been answered. I see that Mrs Kuik wants to make another comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u354	The municipality of Amsterdam has acted according to what it could now legally. It has previously indicated that what is now going to happen in relation to the creation of new schools does not give municipalities sufficient room to control and intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u355	Did you ask this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u356	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u357	Yeah, that's right. I can be clear about that. We're gonna get together very quickly, and we're gonna finish the written questions, and we're gonna talk about that law. However, there is a provision in the law that municipalities cannot be passed when plans are being made for new schools, which is the case in the current situation. One can now suddenly hear: arrange a building. Municipalities are therefore explicitly involved in this. I think that we should use this debate, which we hope will take place soon, to see if we think that is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u358	I've asked the Minister if he intends to use his designation powers. I also asked how there could have been signs that the guidance people would already be in contact with a terrorist group between 2009 and 2012 and that these people could start a school anyway. I was just asking the Minister here, referring to the facts of the matter, how it was possible that the inspection was already known from January, but did not visit until March unannounced. In any case, I cannot find it right in the facts or that the first unannounced visit was and why the inspection has waited almost two months for that visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u359	As far as the latter is concerned, I have indicated what the follow-up steps have been with regard to the in-depth investigation. In accordance with the laws and regulations that exist, you must do so in consultation with a school. This took some time, but the inspection started immediately on the different lines. As far as I know, March 6 was the first unannounced visit, but I will check that out. That doesn't mean nothing happened at all. They also work on other lines. My colleague replied to the question about information about a number of years ago and the setting up of the school. I have already replied to the question as to whether I would like to use my designation powers. I will indeed do so as soon as I have sufficient basis for that. I do indeed have several options, some of which you mentioned explicitly in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u360	I asked the Minister how many parents have so far responded to Prime Minister Rutte's and Mayor Halsema's call to write children out of the school, but also how many children have been extra registered by parents. Those numbers would like to hear from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u361	The time limit for registration shall end on 15 March. After that, of course, we will be informed. That can't be an ongoing procedure. That's very soon, tomorrow. Tomorrow it will end, so I hope to be informed soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u362	And so is the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u363	If that's what the Chamber wants, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u364	Has there been a question left, Mr. Lordema? Yeah? Then you may ask them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u365	I had asked another question about teachers who are now working there and who have an anti-democratic attitude, namely whether there is any possibility of excluding them from other levels or sectors of education. That was my first question that had remained. A second question that has not been answered may come back to the other minister or something to do against the parents who use this educational institution for their children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u366	Can the latter be clarified, do something against parents who send their children to a school that is funded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u367	What exactly do you mean, Mr. Lordema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u368	We know which parents have their children in that school. My question was whether there are any opportunities to ensure that these parents are dealt with in order to get those children out of that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u369	You can inform parents about what's going on. We are working on this. It may be good to stress that again, very closely with the municipality of Amsterdam. The municipality of Amsterdam has used various instruments for this purpose, including the possibility to enter into conversation. I think letters were sent, too. In short, this is how people are approached. We cannot simply impose a professional ban on teachers. When it appears that teachers have committed criminal offences or acted in violation of laws and regulations, action must simply be taken. And then, of course, that also has consequences for the person concerned. But you ask if you can say in general terms that a teacher who has worked at a certain school could never work again. I think you also know that it is simply not part of our rule of law to deal with it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u370	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u371	Thank you, Madam President. Much has already been said in this area. It is up to me, as the last minister in this period, to outline a little bit about the broader perspective when it comes to the integration portfolio. I think Mrs Westerveld made it clear in her first term that we are dealing occasionally with a split. We can see that, too. Over the last few months, we have talked frequently about problematic behaviour in the integration domain, which is not a criminal offence. If something is punishable, it is in a way clear, because then the prosecution can prosecute. However, we often have to deal with problematic behavior in this area, so behavior that we find undesirable in this country and that we want to do something about, but which is not always the legal instrument for. Against this background, the Cabinet established the Task Force Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing. It is precisely with this task force that we want to increase the information position of the Empire and the municipalities, and to increase the scope for action of these municipalities. So we want to give instruments to these municipalities to actually do something if they are confronted with problematic behaviour. This is partly also about unwanted foreign financing. We've talked about that recently. But it's wider than that. This is also the answer to a question from Mr Bishop. He asked: what are we doing to give these municipalities more perspective of action and help the mayors? The task force communicates with the municipalities to see exactly what is happening. That's the analysis. But we are also looking together at what instruments they have to intervene with. It can start with a conversation and it can end with disruption, all in an effort to prevent that problematic behavior that we don't want in this country. In addition, it is constantly searching, because precisely because it is not punishable, it remains, of course, a bit of a grey area, I say in my own words. But that task force will help us to support the municipalities. We do that on a broad palette of subjects. They have not only to do with extremism, but also with extreme right-wing behaviour and undermining, for example. That is in response to Mr Bishop's question. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union asked for new legislation in this area, so apart from the field of education that Mr Slob was just talking about. The cabinet is, of course, working on a number of laws. The Civil Code, article 2:20, has been around a number of times today. But I also mention the law on the obligation of transparency, of Minister Dekker. It obliges foundations and institutions to make transparent who donates money to those foundations. And I myself, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, am working on the bill on undesirable foreign financing, precisely because there is undesirable influence bought from abroad, or can be bought which we have problems with in the Netherlands. The developments at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum in Amsterdam show that problematic behaviour often involves a complex layering of reality. So things aren't always criminal. But anti-democratic, anti-integrative and untolerant behavior is socially undesirable. Mr Van Meenen asked in his contribution to the role of this school in the local approach of Amsterdam. From the municipality I understand that the school does not play an active role in that local approach of Amsterdam. However, there are contacts with the school from other parts of the municipality, as well as from the police. But in the local approach, there's no role for this school. However complicated it may be, the government has a responsibility to protect its citizens. The task force, together with these municipalities, is working on an overview of all possible interventions within each track of what is then called "the three-track approach." We also call it the escalation ladder. We'll start with the conversation. If that doesn't work, we'll scale up, escalate, see if we can move on. These are both measures that can be taken from the municipality and measures that are more at national level, i.e. those of the state. This escalation ladder will also include the measures emerging from the investigations currently under way by the Minister of the Interior. It is primarily about possibilities for intervention and, secondly, about existing interventions in other areas. Think of the outlaw motorcycle gangs. I believe that Mrs Kuik has an initiative law on this issue. Or take the Wet Bibob, who just came by to see colleague Slob. Perhaps these can be applicable to the present forms of problematic behavior. Again, it's wider than just this school. It's really about several areas. Mr Heerema of the VVD asked about the integration of children. Most of the policy in my field focuses on the parents. The following applies specifically to the children. There is a citizenship mission, and Mr Slob has just spoken about it, which requires schools to pay attention to active citizenship, democratic values and social inclusion. The new legislative proposal further extends and strengthens this obligation. In practice, we notice that parents with a migration background sometimes need extra support to educate their children in such a way that they feel at home in and connected to the Netherlands. Then we started pilots in five municipalities with the title Weathering, just to see what we can come up with to help parents. Parents play an important role in preventing anti-integrative and anti-democratic behaviour. They're running now. A report on this issue was published at the end of 2018. At the moment, we are looking at what we can do more broadly and how we can follow up where we can also help it roll out a bit wider and other municipalities on this important issue of preventing defenseless children from falling prey, so to speak, to anti-democratic and anti-integrative behaviour. What I also think is important to say is that there is a need from the community for well Islamic-oriented education. The fact that high quality secondary education with an Islamic basis is possible shows the developments at the Avicenna College in Rotterdam, for example. Mr Van Meenen spoke about this and also Mr Heerema. This is education aimed at integration, citizenship and participation in Dutch society, but also with space for one's own religious identity as a starting point. There too we see that in practice it is a daily search. That's why Avicenna College is an example. You see that struggle, and it's still a focus for all of us. I would like to emphasise that the communities involved often suffer most from this problematic behaviour. That is what Mr Heerema said in his speech. The behaviour of some rotten apples affects the whole community, as they are confronted with messages that make it more difficult for them to participate fully in society. Problematic behaviour also has a negative impact on the Islamic community as a whole. Wrongly, an entire community is addressed on and also identified with the behaviour of a few complex figures, let me put it this way: those who very consciously place themselves outside society with their views and really do not want to be part of society. That is why, as a government, we also see the Islamic communities as important partners for the local government in particular, but also for the government in the fight against problematic behavior. We're good at talking to each other to strengthen that position. Islamic education can count on active protection of the municipal and also the national authorities. Mr. Chairman. That's it. Those were the questions I was asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u372	Thank you. A short question, because we are now going to the second term, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u373	I just have a question, my third question. The Task Force on Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing was discussed, precisely to ensure national security, prevent social tensions and reduce or eliminate foreign finance and influence. I notice that's actually another paper tiger. It is precisely in this case that information should be shared with the Education Inspectorate to ensure that both bodies can act as effectively as possible. Can you use this case of the Haga Lyceum to deal with this with priority, so that the Education Inspectorate takes priority in this type of dangerous matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u374	Last week's letter from Mr Grapperhaus was partly on behalf of the task force. So the task force has played an important role in this. We have built together with the municipality of Amsterdam in this area: the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of BZK, the Ministry of JenV and the services. Last week we also involved Mr Slob of OCW, precisely because of Mr Heerema's question. One of the thoughts is that Mr Slob is a structural part of this task force. But I don't know if he already knows. Yeah, he already knows that, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u375	He's nodding. Thank you. Before we move on to the second term of the Chamber, I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u376	We're going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u377	Mr. Chairman. We're in a bit of a crazy split. That's what we've just seen. I would like to put one more question to the Minister, which is about the CTIVD, which I also asked for in the first term. The Minister said that the CTIVD does not carry out an investigation, but she is of course the body that also checks whether the AIVD acts on various aspects. I would therefore ask the Minister to go a little further on my first-term question. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the security services have such signs of "anti-democratic and anti-integrative behaviour" of the Cornelius Haga Lyceum;]] [[noting that leading people within this school are associated with a terrorist group;]] [[Whereas the administration is undermining social security at school;]] [[points out that in the interests of the pupils, the board takes responsibility and resigns,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently too few legal safeguards to protect students from anti-democratic ideas and extremism;]] [[Whereas planned legislation such as the Law can provide more room for new schools and the Law clarifying citizenship assignment in the foundational education, but it is still unknown how this will work in practice;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether (planned) legislation adequately protects pupils against anti-democratic ideas and extremism and to include Article 23 of the Constitution in this study;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the results, including solutions for legal protection of pupils against anti-democratic ideas and extremism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-114]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u378	A short motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Social Security in Education Act states that the School Board has a duty of care when it comes to the social security of pupils;]] [[noting that this law focuses mainly on bullying behaviour, while social security is much wider;]] [[calls on the government to make proposals to extend the social security care obligations of the administration;]] [[calls on the Government to include in these proposals the position and behaviour of the staff towards pupils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u379	I'll go soon, Mr. Chairman. As I said at the beginning, this was not really an education debate. It was about society as a whole. What is beautiful is that it is also a bit of a bizarre debate. Everyone's shocked, everyone's angry, everyone feels taken by the nose. Because of course: taqqiya. We've talked about it before in the Chamber. We don't. We weren't taken by the nose, we didn't feel shocked. The PVV is realistic: we knew what was coming and we know that much more is coming. That is the state of the Netherlands if we allow Islamization to continue. We have even seen, as I have already said, that the inspection has been Islamicly chased by the ground staff of Allah himself at school there. Because the inspection is the next word that we are allowed to learn as a Chamber is taghoet. Look it up: t-a-g-h-o-e-t. Mr. Chairman. The professional Muslims are laughing at themselves. I told you, Islam will destroy everything if you don't do what needs to be done. That is why the PVV's initiative law, which will soon be in the Chamber, and which has already been presented of course, must be adopted. Only then will we tackle the root causes of all misery. That starts with naming the root cause: Islam, the root cause of all misery. If you don't, if you don't deal with it, the problems will only get worse. So the PVV doesn't feel like it and never gets taken by the nose. We're just seeing what's gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. That is why I have one motion on the school, because it is too crazy to say that we are all standing here with our hands in the slightest hair and not doing what needs to be done. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the letter received today from the Cabinet stating that the information which led to the present situation at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum is only disclosed if there is a threat to national security or the democratic legal order and that the signals have actually been detected;]] [[calls on the government to do what is necessary, namely close the Cornelius Haga Lyceum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr De Graaf and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u380	Yes. Of course, I have only been able to listen to the motion, but I believe that the operative part is 'calling on the government to close the school'. If that is within the scope of the rule of law, I ask Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u381	The whole room's been busy... Based on the 42... I shall briefly outline the situation, Mr President. On the one hand, a school administration has been working for 42 lawsuits for a long time to cross the borders of the rule of law to cause precisely this misery. The entire Chamber is busy making circular movements and U-turn constructions along the edges of the rule of law to shut down the school. As far as I'm concerned, the government just gets the job to do it. That can be done within the rule of law. A lot of possibilities have been mentioned here. We are about to come up with a debate on an even better solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u382	We've been debating this all afternoon, Mr. Van Meenen. Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u383	Mr. De Graaf and I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u384	No, that did not happen between you and Mr De Graaf, but I do not want us to repeat the debate through this motion. No, really only when it comes to a very short question about the motion tabled, but do not open the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u385	In my view, we all want to make this debate so complicated that it closes down, especially as long as these drivers are still here. The complicated thing is that we have to keep within the limits of the rule of law as government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u386	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u387	But now, in my view, Mr De Graaf says that I understand him, but that is why I am asking him that the rule of law is all nice and nice, but that he simply pushes it aside and that this should just happen. Do I understand him so well or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u388	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u389	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Rog, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u390	Thank you, Mr President. I will submit a number of motions. I must say that I feel that we have missed the boat a number of times and perhaps should have intervened sooner. I also want to look for opportunities in the future. Hence a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the appointment of the Minister of Education is responsible for ensuring quality of education and administrative failure and has been extended to include social responsibility in higher education;]] [[Whereas anti-democratic behaviour and/or the dissemination of anti-democratic ideas does not fall within the current competence of the Minister;]] [[also considering that the possibility of suspending a driver was not included in the current designation;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to consider, at the earliest opportunity, whether the appointment of the Minister of Education can be extended to all sectors of education with "social responsibility," anti-democratic behaviour or anti-democratic ideas and the suspension of directors, and to inform the Chamber thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it seems currently impossible to close the Cornelius Haga Lyceum with the current legal instruments;]] [[Whereas the Government is considering whether an amendment to Article 220 WW is likely to be a solution;]] [[Whereas a mayor may also have buildings closed under the Municipal Act;]] [[Whereas the threat to national security or democratic rule of law should be a reason for immediate enforcement action;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the Bibob legislation and/or the Municipal Act can be amended to ensure that educational institutions, which have information on the threat to national security or the democratic legal order, can also be closed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a non-costed school must inform the Minister within four weeks of its establishment on which the Inspectorate is to advise the Minister whether the non-costed school complies with the legal requirements;]] [[Whereas until an opinion has been delivered by the Inspection, the compulsory education officer cannot exercise enforcement over parents who have notified their child to the school;]] [[requests the Cabinet to:]] [[specify in the supervisory framework the citizenship mandate in accordance with the tightening up provided for in the government agreement;]] [[to make the time limits within which the Inspection can deliver its opinion as short as possible so that, in the event of non-compliance with legal requirements for non-cost education, a negative opinion can be issued by the Education Inspectorate as soon as possible;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-118]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-119]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas expressions and behaviours against the core values of the Dutch democratic rule of law are highly undesirable by teachers, as their task entails responsibilities and public funding;]] [[noting that the Higher Education Act contains a provision on the obligation to be aware of social responsibility which requires representatives of institutions to refrain from discriminatory behaviour and statements;]] [[noting that at present no consequences can be attached to similar expressions and behaviours in fundamental education;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals for a law on social responsibility in all education sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Cornelius Hagalyceum the inspection on an unannounced visit was hindered and threatened;]] [[noting that this did not lead to a penalty;]] [[Whereas workers in the public sector, including educational inspectors, should be able to do their work safely and freely;]] [[invites the Government, if the Education Inspectorate is obstructed and or threatened in the performance of its duties, to proceed directly to all possible legal sanctions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-121]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u392	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions and a final remark. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite serious abuses at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, the Minister was unable to close the school;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for a school to be closed in the event of such malpractice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the Minister of Education should be able to dismiss teachers if leadership and anti-democratic and anti-integrative views are disseminated;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to allow directors to be dismissed on these grounds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the Government, if the inspection is denied access to a school, not to hesitate to intervene by means of financial sanctions or to close the school;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-123]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-124]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kikken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u393	A final remark, Mr President. When we talk about those two faces of the board, namely playing nicely to the outside and acting very hard inside, Mr Van Meenen and I must think of a Potemkin village. For the young viewers: that was one of those villages where two-dimensional facades were placed in front of the czar, to show how great that village looked. But as soon as that tsar had left, those facades went back to the next village where that tsar was headed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u394	Yeah, that was then! Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And in my culture, it was called Hollywood architecture. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for their reaction. That has not always been entirely satisfactory on all points, but that is also a bit of a specific issue. I will come up with two motions, one of which is a bit of a repetition, but I will explain this in a moment. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas public authorities should not determine how schools work on citizenship and integration, but should ensure that schools do so;]] [[noting that the competent authority is clearly acting in violation of the legal obligation to give some form to citizenship and integration when activities in the school are directed against integration;]] [[Furthermore, it should not be considered plausible that the competent authority fulfils the duty of caring for mental and social security at school when jihadists or terrorists can exert influence on the school;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt funding sanctions on the basis of the current education legislation on citizenship and security when these situations arise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u396	Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Basic and Advanced Education referred to that 2016 motion I also referred to. But it was a very bold interpretation. In my opinion, it was a liberal exegesis of that motion. That's not something that's been spent on Orthodox brothers. That is why we are again tabling a motion, which also creates a new opportunity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the monitoring provided for in Article 23 of the Constitution is also intended to adequately address threats to public order in education;]] [[Noting that the Court has requested that consideration be given to the possibilities of monitoring the possibility of countering dangerous influences on the legal system in the non-cost education sector, Bishop's motion (34412, No. 20) 'but that such examination has not been carried out;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an expeditious investigation into the scope and legal impact of the supervision of public order in education, both for funded and non-costed schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u397	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u398	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u399	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas our education must not be abused for undermining Dutch values and democratic rule of law;]] [[Whereas pupils should be taught safely at every school in the Netherlands without being poisoned with radical Islamic and jihadist ideas;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how the spread of anti-democratic ideas and the undermining of the Dutch rule of law can be more effectively incorporated into the law as grounds for ending the funding and closure of the school concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a legal guarantee that it will be impossible to establish schools that are opposed to the democratic rule of law and give themselves the opportunity to expand,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pupils should be taught safely at every school in the Netherlands without being poisoned with anti-democratic and anti-integrative ideas;]] [[Whereas the AIVD and the NCTV have shared such information with the Minister of OCW, identifying links between leading persons at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum and a terrorist organisation with radical Islamic and jihadist views;]] [[noting that the management of the Cornelius Haga Lyceum prevented inspectors from doing their work;]] [[Considering that in other sectors based on BW 2:20 there are legal possibilities to close clubhouses of motorcycle gangs, evacuate drug houses and stop other criminal activities;]] [[Whereas current laws, such as BW 2:20, Article 104 of the Secondary Education Act, the Municipal Law and the Temporary Anti-Terrorism Administrative Act seem to provide grounds for closing this school;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power and to explore any possibility of ending the alarming situation at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum and to follow the school intensively until that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-128]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rudmer Heerema, Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u400	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions because I have tabled a number of motions, but we always conclude the debate. My conclusion is, even before the inspection report is completed, that the Haga Lyceum should have been closed or the subsidy should have been suspended. I cannot escape that conclusion, even after this debate; even more so, I am strengthened in that conclusion. The Minister himself says: employees could not finish their work because of their own security. In many sectors, this is reason to suspend and stop. I am therefore very surprised that this did not happen at the Haga Lyceum. That is also the reason why I tabled a motion with my colleague Jasper van Dijk which states that this is indeed a basis for immediate closure, even in this case. Mr. Chairman. This case, from the Haga Lyceum, is not new. From 2001 onwards, we will have the discussion on how to start schools, whatever their signature, which we find undesirable. That is why it is very much necessary for appropriate legislation to be put in place. Article 2:20 WW can be a ground. We want an adaptation of Article 23 of the Constitution. I think it can also be very useful and sensible to look at the Municipal Law and the Bibob Law, to see which hooks that legislation now offers to intervene quickly. I therefore urge the Minister, in this case Minister Grapperhaus, to make that legal analysis. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u401	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u402	Mr. Chairman. I said in the first term: what is dark must be brought to light. I would like to thank the three ministers for their understanding today of the possibilities and inability of public intervention in situations such as the Haga Lyceum in Amsterdam. We have been given the revelation today that the director said to the inspection that he would not be able to control his people if the inspection entered. I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice and Security whether this is an undesirable behaviour or a threat. Can this be sorted out, and if so, how long can it be clarified? I think that is important, because in the considerations of the Van Meenen/Rog motion in part No. 122 states that there has been a threat. My group's reaction to this motion depends on that. My second question is addressed to the Minister for Education. This question was not answered in the first period. Is the inspection sufficiently aware of the principle of deliberate deception, which was also mentioned by Mr De Graaf, because this school does not recognise the authority of the inspection? Does the inspection take that into account? Is the inspection sufficiently equipped to deal with such a situation? I also refer to the motions with which I am called.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u403	A quick question. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u404	Yes, very briefly. Perhaps Mr Bruins can answer his first question himself. Suppose he or I would have been an inspector, that we would have gone to such a school and that the school board would say to us, "You can come in, but then we can't control our teachers." What do you call that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u405	I went through such a situation a few years ago and I feel threatened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u406	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u407	Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, without any trace of dedain, I feel completely at home in this house. It has evolved into a debate, a stage of impotence. The conditioned reflexes occur again: a disorder from here to gunter and we all want that school to close. What is the outcome of a four-hour meeting? A pile of motions and "parole, parole, parole," you know that song. Not a salafist who'll feel a shudder in his body. It's air biking, it's conditioned reflexes and legal texts, totally powerless, focused on the future and it could take years. If you need it from this government, a government that wants to stand tall, should stand against salafism, especially if the child's soul is at stake, then let all hope be lost. This Minister of Justice and Security is running around like a blind man in the matter. It's hollow bombast. It's the stupidity that rules. We have to do it with a lot of rambling and messing: read my brie... brie... brie... letter. Beep foam! There's nothing in there. What it says is that national security is being threatened from that loft, that the rule of law is being threatened, that the child soul is being maltreated and that there is discrimination. There is no other way, because if you want to spread salafism you will at least have to turn against a direction of faith; that is what the unbeliever will say, the Christian or anyone else. That's a criminal offence. Ask the gentlemen of the PVV. Nothing's gonna be done about that, nothing. I'm rounding up. By doing so one can learn. Maybe my entrance made a small contribution or caused a shudder on the back benches. The Code of Criminal Law exists! It is written to intervene in situations where the rule of law is threatened, the child's soul is maltreated and certainly in situations where national security is at stake. 137 exists, 140 exists, in schools anyway. It exists. You can look over the wall, even more so, you can listen right through it. You should have! But by doing so one learns. Hope brings life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u408	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I look at the ministers to see who could start first. Five minutes? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u409	I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to get through the motions quickly. The motion in part No. 114 is a "spoken" motion. So it's up to the Chamber to decide. The motion in part No. 115 belongs to Mrs Westerveld c.s. It is in line with what I have said myself that, with the knowledge of what has happened here today, we will once again look very closely at both legislative proposals. It goes without saying that we are doing the same in the context of what the Constitution requires of us. So if I may understand the motion in such a way that we also have a very specific look at what is being presented to the Chamber and whether that is sufficient to be able to act in this kind of situation, I shall give this motion a Chamber of Justice judgment. The motion in part No. 116 I can give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 117 I advise, because, as I indicated earlier, there is an insufficient legal basis to close the school. The motion in part No. 118 of Mr Rog and others, I can give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 120 ditto. I can give him a room to judge. The motion in part No. 121 belongs to Mr Van Meenen. I'd like to ask him if I can do that as follows. I think that we should look at what we have done for higher education in order to see whether it is appropriate for primary and secondary education as well. I'm willing to fully map what we could do. Then we can also reflect on what the Citizenship Act is about to bring and then draw the conclusion with each other whether or not we think it is necessary to do so. If that's the way I understand the motion, I'll give her judgment Chamber. If you really think we should do it without having had the debate, then I should advise against the motion. I see you nodding. So, if that's how I understand the motion, I'm giving her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u411	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u412	I should like to see the motion on part No. 122. I have also indicated that if this were to happen again, and so on, and so on. So that's what we intend to do. So I can give that motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 123. We are, of course, in the process of using the instruments available at the moment. And we're in the process of developing new instruments. That's a little bit separate from "very focused" this school. When it is necessary, of course, we also want to be able to intervene, with the ultimate consequence that a school is closed down. If I understand the motion in such a way that we must use all the instruments available and, if necessary, supplement them in order to intervene in such situations, then I shall give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u413	That's the case, Mr. Jasper van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u414	The motion belongs to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u415	What motion are you on now? At the motion in part No. 124, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u416	I have responded in general to the motion on item No. 123 because, as you know, we are still carrying out all kinds of research on this school. Then it wouldn't be appropriate to draw any conclusions there. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 124 I can also give judgment Chamber. We're watching this, too. That is the same as what I said in the motion for a resolution. 123 indicated. If it's possible, we'll see what we can do. So in that respect, we will also work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u417	May I just say before the Acts that the motion in part No. 124 is co-signed by Mr Heerema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u418	Then that name will be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u419	These are motions which are in line with the tightening up of legislation, such as the cabinet, which is also about to be implemented. Then the motion to part No. 125.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u420	Mrs. Westerveld, you've taken your seat again. But you've been at the interrupting microphone before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u421	I gave her motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u422	Yeah, I'm very happy about that. But I have a question about another motion, about the motion in part No. 118 by Mr Rog and others. That motion contains a very reasonable request, namely to strengthen, if necessary, the power of designation. I asked for this during the debate. Then the Minister responded with a reference to the letter sent today, which states precisely that the Minister will strengthen the power of designation. So I wonder what the difference is between what's in the letter and what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u423	In this motion, in particular, Mr Rog has specified on which parts he would like an appointment to be given. We also exchanged that in the debate. This would be an addition and we are asked to investigate it. We'd like to do that. We thought that was a reasonable request. Then the Jasper van Dijk/Kuiken motion in part No. 12. I have indicated that this is our intention, so this motion too I can give 'judgement chamber'. I've just been asking about the unannounced visits. That was indeed the first thing that took place, but there was already considerable research in other areas. They included conversations, but they didn't take place in the school, but outside the school. Then there is the Bishop's motion in part No. 126. Here's what I want to say. We will do whatever is possible if action is contrary to the law and if that is observed. The AIVD signals are not a sufficient basis for this, so if the inspection report provides a basis, then we will also act, but not simply as this motion requests, if the board clearly acts contrary to... We do intend to act as soon as we have sufficient basis for that. That's how we deal with each other with these kinds of questions. I therefore have a little hesitation in giving your motion 'judgement chamber' because I cannot fully see how you are completely different from that. It has to be clear, I think, how we are to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u424	Always within the framework of the rule of law, of course. The motion is prompted by the doubts that could be raised on some points, in the vein of: could something else perhaps have been done? Consider this as a support in the back to intervene firmly when situations arise, I would like to ask. But of course that must always have sufficient basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u425	It is equally important that you do not already judge in this motion what is being investigated in the present case and that you anticipate it. But if I may understand your motion in such a way that you ask "do everything possible," then I can give this "judgment chamber." But there's no judgment whatsoever as to what's going on right now. The Bishop's motion in part No. 127 I can also give "judge chamber." The motion-Rudmer Heerema in part No. 128 ditto. That is what we are working on, including with regard to the new legislation that is to come. Then I think I have had the motions I would say something about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u426	Well, I've never seen this before: that the opinion on almost all motions is "judge chamber." It's possible. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u427	Mr. Chairman. I am going to put you to an even greater surprise, because I will deal with the Rog/Kuiks motion, which asks the government to examine whether Bibob legislation and/or the Municipal Act can be amended. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. Then I have one more question to answer about the CTIVD. I will pass on the request for an inquiry into the provision of information by the AIVD with a positive opinion to my colleague from BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u428	Thank you. Then we will see what the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is going to say for judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u429	This last minister is also in a very good mood. I'm talking about the Rudmer Heerema c.s. motion. in piece No. 129. As the coordinating director of the task force, I have the right to pass judgment on this motion. We certainly intend to identify the possibilities and options. That's our policy. Not all the considerations in the motion are equally precise. I refer, for example, to the phrase'seems to be points of reference' and to the fact that different laws are listed. We do not share that view in all cases, but I would also like to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u430	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u431	We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the three ministers and Members of Parliament.
