ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill 34902, Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations (VII) for the year 2018, i.e. the Incidental Supplementary Budget on Climate Envelope Government Agreement. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the so-called 'climate envelope', an amendment to the budget state of the Interior to facilitate the climate crisis in Rutte's government agreement. This climate envelope will explode on the doormat with our citizens through the blue tax envelope, and on top of that they will be able to pay themselves blue to the investments that the Minister intends to force to free the Netherlands from gas. In the meantime, the Minister has already allocated EUR 120 million in grants, and the Rutte cabinet wants EUR 300 million every year until 2030: annually! Pumps in the removal of natural gas from neighborhoods. According to calculations by the EIB (Economy Institute for Construction) and Building The Netherlands, this will make natural gas free in total as much as 240 billion euros, on average €35,000 per house cost. However, local calculations show that these costs will often be much higher; this quickly rises to as much as €70,000 per home. In order to renovate a monumental farm without gas, even €325,000 in investment is needed, according to certain studies. What does this priceless climate madness mean to our citizens? And what does this mean in combination with other Rutte measures that make our citizens' lives much more expensive? Mr. Chairman. To illustrate this, a quote: "Now the low VAT goes from 6 to 9 percent. This will then be compensated by a reduction in income tax. But in the meantime, if you clean up a heat pump, insulation, asbestos roofs and get more expensive groceries for you, what will be left under the line? People who have a lot of money can pay it all, but especially for the middle groups it is very difficult. I think the citizen is getting too much on his neck." A quote from De Telegraaf of 22 December this year, an interview with Mrs Broekers-Knol, VVD, President of this First Chamber. She also states in the interview: "The climate agreement is coming, but there should not be too much change in the Lower House, because that is not the intention" and "It will be a bit tricky if the Lower House gets all pan-ready pieces from such a chord table for which they have to sign around the cross. It's just not a take it or leave it, but you can't change much about it either. I find that difficult." A very clear analysis of the climate agreement, in which Mrs Broekers-Knol is not alone. Elsevier, for example, headlines "Thom de Graaf: climate agreement risk for democracy" on 13 December. I quote the former member of this Chamber for D66 and now Vice-President of the Council of State: 'The risk is that these agreements will then be translated into legislation and nailed down before the Council of State can advise on them. With such an agreement, there is hardly any political room for manoeuvre and you cannot actually take advice or changed insights with you anymore. Also, an agreement is regularly not translated into a law, whereas it should be," said Thom de Graaf. How does the Minister view these analyses? Also in the light of the present proposal. This is, after all, an essential link in the preparation of further plans for the development of the climate agreement. Here too, we are faced with facts: while we are now having a debate in this Chamber, the Minister has already allocated EUR 120 million to municipalities. Local authorities and other local authorities are already busy drawing up plans and making commitments under the climate agreement, while the climate agreement itself still has to be taken into account. Municipalities and provinces are already burdening their citizens with climate freaks such as "energy landscapes" full of wind turbines and solar parks, so that the Regional Energy Strategies (RESs) can be established as soon as possible. The IPO drivers proclaim to work with heat grids, without having discussed anything with their Provincial States. The whole climate circus is being rigged up in the administrative backrooms and the citizens and the representatives of the people will only be able to applaud from the gallery. Is that a full democratic process for the Minister? Nota bene: the Minister for the Interior has to watch over democracy and the democratic process. How can it reconcile this approach? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The same is true of local autonomy. It is now being pushed aside with this climate agreement and the Inter-Governmental Programme (IBP). In this proposal, municipalities can still apply voluntarily for the "test gardens," but in the end the Minister wants it to be forced from above to free the whole of the Netherlands from natural gas. The Minister already prescribes that municipalities and provinces should embed the choices of the RESAs in environmental visions, environmental plans, programmes and regulations. Meanwhile, the Minister suggests that municipalities can still decide on the climate agreement. I quote from the further reply: "In the preparation of the various tasks as part of the climate agreement, co-governments are involved in the representation of their umbrella organisations (IPO, VNG, Union of Water Boards). Eventually, the members of these organisations (municipalities, provinces, water boards) will decide on the climate agreement by means of a membership consultation." Can the Minister indicate what this statement is still worth, as at the same time, through the IBP, she is forcing municipalities to plan how they will become natural gas-free by 2021 at the latest? What effect does such a consultation of members on the climate agreement have if the Minister wants to enforce climate action by means of legal measures anyway? Moreover, local authorities are not bound by these umbrella organisations and can in principle even terminate their membership. So can the Minister state clearly what influence, apart from these domes, the democratically elected parliament can still exert on this climate agreement from its frame work? I'd like a response from the Minister. On top of that, the Minister wants to regulate legally the power of perseverance for the release of natural gas. I quote the further reply: 'The climate agreement will agree on a legislative agenda that should provide for the powers and powers of perseverance mentioned. The Environment Act plays an important role in this, but also in energy legislation." Thus, by means of a climate agreement which does not come about through the constitutional democratic process, the Minister also intends to initiate legal measures. Thus, with an agreement that has already been reached, the underlying legislative agenda has already come to an end and the parliamentary co-legislator can only sign on to the cross. Under Rutte, we are slipping into a climate dictatorship where people's representatives can no longer play a serious role. Moreover, the measures also do not effectively serve the intended purpose of tackling climate change. In the reply, the Minister states: "The independent contribution of the approximately 20 experimental gardens with around 10,000 homes, for which the €90 million is deployed, to CO reduction and to climate is limited in itself." Instead of "limited in itself," the Minister could have spoken of a totally negligible and unmeasurable effect, at least not measurable in degrees Celsius, but an all the more negative effect on our citizens' wallets. With an average contribution of €8,500 per house, this proposal only covers the uneconomic part. Can the Minister indicate how large the total investment per home is on average and on whose behalf these costs come? What does this mean, in particular, for private property owners? The unnecessary and priceless measures that many homeowners in Utrecht Overvecht already panicked about were described by De Telegraaf as "Gasless House is Madness" on 2 July. And, for example, in one of the designated districts, the district of Palenstein in Zoetermeer, where the minister has also recently been visiting, the plans indicate that it is "more complex" for private homeowners than for corporations. Homeowners are only referred to a shop for "sustainable living" in order to obtain advice. Real estate owners in Zoetermeer pay up according to the plans for all residential costs and after the substantial investment in theory only have a possible advantage from a slightly lower energy bill. Can the Minister explain how she can explain to the property owners that through taxes they do have to pay for the natural gas clearance of corporation houses in their neighborhood, but they also have to bear all the costs of making their own house free of natural gas? The Zoetermeer plan also states that there is no legal instrument to force someone to shut off natural gas. In the reply, the Minister indicated that it was up to the municipalities with experimental gardens themselves to draw up measures for this purpose. Can the Minister elaborate on this point? Is this an aspect on which it intends to legally regulate the perseverance power through environmental law? Can the Minister also indicate what it means for the pilot garden project if only part of the private homeowners in a district decide not to participate? Does that mean that the whole area will be decommissioned from natural gas? And does it still fit within the funding frameworks of this project? Mr. Chairman. The proposal also provides for EUR 5 million for the sustainability of primary schools. In this context, handy real estate entrepreneurs are currently in the process of designing their commercial e.g. a construction in which municipalities are often alienating the property from primary schools to a foundation that provides liquid assets with borrowed money from, for example, BNG, Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, and the Province of Noord-Brabant. The foundation then sustains the building. The municipality pays to the foundation a debt canon, which, in addition to the cost of the loan and sustainability, also includes an absurd management and project fee that is passed on to the e.g. Neither the e.g. nor its directors are at risk. The province of Noord-Brabant wants to invest no less than 100 million euros public money in such a company, the company Bewust Investeren BV. Can the Minister exclude that the funds from this climate envelope are spent through such structures? Does the Minister consider such constructions to make schools sustainable at all desirable and effective? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the written rounds of this proposal, the PVV asked for the reports of the climate tables to be made public. The Minister refuses to do so. I quote: "The Cabinet does not consider it desirable to provide your Chamber with the reporting of the talks at the Climate Tables. The chairman of the Climate Council regularly informs Parliament about the conduct of the talks and the follow-up steps by means of a technical briefing. In addition, the Cabinet considers it desirable that discussions at the tables can be conducted in private, so that parties have the space to explore joint solutions, even if this sometimes leads to difficult choices." As a parliament, we must be able to carry out our control function properly. It is not just about what the outcome of the talks is, but it must also be transparent what is brought in by different parties. What interests are at stake and what interests have been taken into account? We must be able to test this as a parliament, and that must be transparent for our citizens. Therefore, the PVV is submitting a motion to make all the reports from the climate tables public. The President shall: Members Van Hattem, Dercksen, Peter van Dijk, Van der Sluijs, Ton van Kesteren, Faber-van de Klashorst, Kok and Aardema propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that Parliament should be able to assess, from its supervisory role, which interests have been brought in and weighed up at the climate tables;]] [[that this should also be transparent for Dutch citizens;]] [[noting that according to the letter of commission to the president of the climate table there was a report of the meeting (for which the secretariat of the sectoral table provides support), which should be accompanied by reports from the meetings of the sectoral table;]] [[calls on the Government to make public all reports of climate table meetings and all reports of the Global Climate Council;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34902-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. Finally, this weekend an interesting interview was published in De Telegraaf with chemist and theologian Jaap Hanekamp entitled "The dangers of climateutopia." I can recommend everyone to read the whole article, but still a striking quote: "Climate is the new utopia. It doesn't matter if it's scientific or not. Whether it gets warmer or colder, whether it snows or not, it's always climate change. It is true and it is an ideal tool to reform society according to the wishes of the elite: the green utopians." This climate envelope also fits in with that climateutopia. Not for nothing does Mr Hanekamp say: "The compulsion is not only about thinking, but also about doing it over again. I predict that an extra mortgage for insulation of your home will simply be enforced within ten years." This compulsion should not be facilitated with a climate envelope. On the contrary, the PVV wants to stop this climate insanity. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the allocation of money from the so-called climate envelope for 2018. What a terrible word actually: climate envelope. It would benefit the support for policy if we refrain from this kind of jargon. This supplementary budget provides for EUR 90 million to be made available for the setting up of projects to create natural gas-free neighbourhoods and EUR 5 million for the scaling-up of sustainability of primary schools. The Group of the Party of European Socialists agrees. I understand, moreover, that the amount available has now grown from EUR 90 million to EUR 120 million and ask the Minister whether this is correct. The aim is for municipalities to gain experience in making districts free of natural gas, which should also be made available to other municipalities. The House of Representatives has added by adopting the Beckerman motion that the knowledge acquired must also be accessible to residents. My group attaches great importance to this, because residents must be able to have an important voice in the way their village or district will become natural gas-free. Mr. Chairman. In order to meet the international, also agreed by the Netherlands, reduction of CO emissions in order to limit global warming, much more needs to be done. But this government, like its predecessors, is always putting in place adequate measures. The recently published report of the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment provides an overview showing that CO emissions in 2016 were 8% lower in the Netherlands than in 1990. In our neighbouring countries, Belgium and Germany, that was 18% and 26%. On average, it is 22% in the European Union. So the Netherlands is doing much worse than the other countries. The Plan Bureau expects emissions to be reduced by 21% by 2020. That is significantly less than the 25% needed to comply with our international agreements. The government announced that it would not adopt additional measures until April following the election of the Provincial States. Why does this have to take so long, I ask the Minister. Not to mention the plans for a so-called climate agreement, which are still waiting. Meanwhile, the government coalition has not yet included in its plans one of the most effective measures, a CO levy for companies. Mr. Chairman. The SP Group supports the supplementary budget now before us. But the government will have to change its climate plans if it is to be able to count on our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u8	The next item is the debate on the bill 34902, Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations (VII) for the year 2018, the Incidental Supplementary Budget on Climate envelope government agreement. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that, of course, the great climate debate is taking place across the street right now. So I understand very well that Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u10	It can't be bigger than here, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mr President, you will not hear me say that, of course. But I do understand that Mr Van Hattem of the PVV thought: we can take a bit of that too. But in all seriousness: we have a beautiful tradition in the Netherlands, namely that we work together in this country. If we get into big trouble, we'll be able to control it together. Very often the battle against the water is mentioned as an example. That has become a bit of a cliché: building polders and dikes together to control the water. This cliché is perhaps also applicable now, when it comes to climate change, not only because of the rise in water levels, which, of course, plays a role in this, but also because of the commonality, the common struggle, where we actually need everyone. That is why, in the run-up to the decision-making process, the cabinet has invited over 100 organisations to cooperate with us in reducing CO emissions. From the cabinet, we would very much like to work with social parties, but not alone, of course. We also want to work with as many political parties as possible. This requires parties to come up with ideas that really help. But working together will be very difficult if political parties do not come up with ideas but are actually denying reality. I say this in the direction of Mr Van Hattem. That is all the more reason to appreciate Mr Köhler's contribution to the SP. Build-up criticism, you can work with that. In my view, this is more useful than uncritical rejection of climate change. I welcome Mr Van Hattem's attention to the citizens of the Netherlands and to our democratic rule of law, as Mr Van Hattem also knows. Let me start by saying something about the citizens of the Netherlands. Everyone in the Netherlands should be able to live comfortably in a way that suits him or her, including, of course, the wallet of the Dutchman and the stage of life in which someone is. What we are doing is actually we are standing on the eve of this step-by-step approach to: getting rid of natural gas. That means something to a lot of people. So we have to do this carefully. I have made a lot of work visits over the last few years, including to people who are dealing with plans to get rid of natural gas. They ask a lot of questions. They sometimes ask, why here, in my neighborhood? They ask, "Why do we do that now?" They're asking, "How are we gonna do that?" But it's very rare for me to get the question: why? In other words, it is not the case that people do not have questions about it, but people want clarity. People also see very well that going off natural gas also means opportunities for them. This means a chance for a lower energy bill and a better living comfort. No one is opposed to that; that is what people want very much. I think that residents really have the right to decide in front of them what happens to their neighborhood, their street and their home; Mr Köhler also asked for it. So we cannot and do not want to determine how to do that from The Hague. This direction should be local; it should be in the municipality. We all know that a good director doesn't do it alone, but provides support and acceptance by engaging the residents very intensively. Mr. Chairman. Finally, another point and then I am going to answer the questions. If we are going to work to free natural gas from neighborhoods and neighbourhoods, then you are going to do a lot more than that. It's not just about sustainability. It's also very often about the quality of life of the neighborhood. It is very often about people's employment. It could be about safety, social security and physical safety. In other words, by making a neighborhood natural gas free, you can also make that neighborhood better. I am in favour of this integrated approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u12	Before you answer my further questions, I have a question. You say that the citizens can take part in the decision on the front. You also say: it's in the municipalities. At the same time, I read that legislative measures are being developed and that there will be a perseverance force. So what does "decide on the front" mean? If citizens can take part in the decision, that also means that they can say no: 'No, we do not want to get rid of natural gas'. Is there such a possibility? Or is it just talking along and eventually going along with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u13	I shall come back to that in a moment, because Mr Van Hattem asked some questions about this in his first term. But it is very simple: at the stage in which we are now sitting and in which we are providing subsidies to enable municipalities to realise those natural gas-free neighbourhoods, there must be co-decision on the front, but there can be no coercion, because there is no legal means to enforce it. But Mr Van Hattem, who has requested this debate in connection with the supplementary budget, is actually asking a question about the future, what is the draft climate agreement and the measures that will have to be taken between now and 2030 to go further and further on that path of removing natural gas from homes in the Netherlands. Mr Van Hattem is well aware that this proposal for a climate agreement also includes a legislative agenda. If that is the case, these questions will also have to be addressed. For example, we already have legislation on new construction: we want it to be delivered without gas. This is already the case for 60% of new buildings, even without such legislation. Now we're talking about the existing construction. In the current situation, that's not something you can force. I don't think you should want to force it either. You have to bring people in. Mr Van Hattem has asked a large number of questions. Of course, I'd like to answer that. He started in his term about affordability. I have just said that the cabinet considers it very important that it is feasible and affordable. This means that we are going to work in stages and that we must choose a responsible pace to make it sustainable and to become natural gas-free in the Netherlands. We would like to start now, because if we want to achieve 2030 and eventually 2050 without the natural gas, then we really need to get to work. The stakes are that the housing costs do not increase and that the sustainability and investment needed for this are paid out of the savings in the energy bill. That is not yet possible, because if you start something, you do not yet have economies of scale and certain innovations are still relatively expensive; we are also going to work with them in these test areas.We need some more public contributions, such as in the test gardens or as we can do through subsidies in the ISDE. As Mr Van Hattem has undoubtedly read in the draft climate agreement, there are further plans for this. He also asked how big the investment per house is. Of course, that varies from one house to another. The starting point is this cost-neutrality, as I just said. The pace is important, but it is too complex to say what it costs per home. There's really no telling. What I can say is that, for example, the installation of a heat grid for a municipality, if that is possible, because that cannot be done everywhere at the moment is a somewhat cheaper solution than if you go for "all electric." It's actually a whole range of €2,500 to €15,000. That's why we get to about €8,500 per house. But again, that depends on the specific situation. Then the tenants. Mr Van Hattem raised the question whether it is true that property owners actually pay double. He says: both through the rental sector and for his own home. That is not the case. The housing corporations, which hold a very important part of the social housing in the Netherlands, finance the sustainability from their own capital, from the rent income and sometimes from sales revenue, if they have it. The corporations do contribute to public finances through the landlord levy. So also with the tenants and with the social tenants, the starting point is residential cost neutrality. For example, the houses can be preserved and these tenants can also get more comfortable homes. If the rent goes up, the energy bill should go down proportionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u14	The point about this aspect is precisely that housing companies are also going to submit applications for sustainability or for the release of natural gas from the climate envelope and that this climate envelope is therefore directly brought up by taxpayers. It is not a loan made available to the corporations, it is made available as a grant. This means that tax-paying property owners also indirectly contribute to the sustainability of the social sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u15	As I just said, housing corporations have three tasks. They must ensure affordability, supply, so build, and make them sustainable, and they must do so out of their investment capacity. The debate with housing corporations is often about whether they have sufficient investment capacity. After all, they also pay off money through the landlord's tax? That's the big picture. If you then zoom in on specific projects, that relatively limited amount available for test gardens can also go to corporations that participate in them. But these corporations, like other homeowners, have the same bump that's out there right now, that we're still figuring out how this works. I think it is a good way to experiment or start experimenting with these test gardens, on the road to economies of scale and lower costs, which, of course, also benefit the housing corporations, the homeowners and ultimately taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u16	Just a little more concrete, though. I took Zoetermeer as a case, which I looked at the plan of action. That is where I read literally that individual owners of homes are not eligible for this scheme, whereas it is organised for the corporations. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u17	There are a lot of different examples. Mr Van Hattem has looked in Zoetermeer, but there are a lot of other municipalities in the Netherlands. We've identified 27 gas-free neighborhoods. In some there are more private owners, in others it is completely for corporations. That is the case in Zoetermeer. You really need to look at the composition on a case-by-case basis and what approach the municipality has chosen in consultation with the stakeholders. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the grant section made available to schools. He mentions an example in Brabant. I do not know that particular example, I say in advance, but I am happy to look at it. In general, I would say that the construction described by Mr Van Hattem, a so-called ESCo, could be an Energy Service Company, which gives the school some relief and takes over the management of these measures. There may be financial deprivation, and that is in itself positive. Once again, I do not know the specific situation Mr Van Hattem referred to, so I have to dive into that. Mr Van Hattem also made comments on democratic legitimacy. It is a complex whole to finally reach a climate agreement, because they are agreements between governments, with industry and with civil society organisations. A large number of them are going to do something. It's not entirely noncommittal on their part. Nevertheless, there can be no misunderstanding that at the level of the Empire, in the cabinet, the process is that we have a draft climate agreement and now wait for the plan office to pass on the bill. Then we make a decision as a cabinet and then we submit it to the House of Representatives. There is no direct effect of these agreements, but they have to be translated into laws and regulations; often at national level and sometimes at provincial or municipal level. We do so just as we always do, in the democratic process, with the involvement of the Council of State, to mention an important body that will also take a test on this. So it is very special in its complexity, but in its democratic legitimacy it is no different from other laws and regulations that we want in the Netherlands. Then there's local autonomy. Mr Van Hattem referred to agreements made in the Intergovernmental Programme. He referred to regional energy strategies. He referred to the planning, i.e. the request to municipalities and provinces to have it ready in good time. We make administrative agreements very often in the Netherlands, and we do so very often between the governments. Such agreements will also have to be translated into our classic system, the house of Thorbecke. That is why, in the draft climate agreement, we are also talking about a legislative agenda, as I said at the beginning, and we are doing so in good consultation with the other governments, who, of course, do not want to wait until we are finished here in The Hague. We do that together with them and we feel responsible together. Eventually, a lot comes down to the municipalities. They already have the responsibility and, if it is up to us, they will soon have the power to free the district of natural gas. The legislative process will have to go through the normal parliamentary process. Mr Van Hattem had also tabled a motion, but I will do it at the end. Then there are a few questions from Mr Köhler. There was 90 million in the supplementary budget and that has turned into 120 million, as Mr Köhler has clearly seen. I reported this to the Chamber through a letter of amendment to the 2019 budget. The reason for this is that the cabinet thought it logical to say: if we add these funds for the 2019 envelope to this selection, then we can use as many proposals as possible and also make speed. That was indeed a good observation. Then Mr Köhler's call for information to be shared with residents. I couldn't agree more. We already do. It may be that we can do better and maybe we should do better. I'd be happy to include that in the conversations I'm having about that. Part of the programme include a website and a knowledge and learning programme. The municipalities themselves communicate with their inhabitants as much as possible. Again, I'd like to address them, if that's even better or different. The RVO and Environment Central receive funding to give citizens good and clear information. The regional energy points supported by the Empire and the VNG also play an important role in this. Then there is the slowness in the process that Mr Köhler talked about. Why aren't we going to announce how to achieve that goal until April? In fact, I have just outlined it; it is a complex whole, from a draft climate agreement to a pass-through, according to a view of the cabinet and a proposal. It's a big deal. It is about a long period ahead of us and about radical measures that we have in mind. This includes a careful process, including the pass-through and then the whole legislative process that I spoke about in response to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u18	I'm afraid I haven't expressed myself clearly enough. I understand, however, that the final proposals on the climate agreement, for measures up to 2030, will only be put forward after this transfer, but I do not understand why the decision on additional measures to reach those 25% by 2020, i.e. next year, has now been suspended for another three months. An additional measure such as the accelerated closure of the Nuon plant, which is now being discussed at large, could be dealt with as well as the cabinet's proposals next month as in four months' time. It will be brief, because if that decision is taken, it will have to be implemented by 2020. That's almost it. Why do you wait another three months to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u19	I'm grateful for the explanation. I think Mr Köhler had expressed himself quite clearly, but I had indeed misunderstood. You were referring to Urgenda. The cabinet has said: we have the ruling and we have known it for a long time, we knew that we would get the transfer of the PBL by the end of January and that is new. The fact that we now know about how big the task is, within bandwidths, is the new information we have to deal with. This means that the cabinet must show how we can achieve the 25% that we have to get from the judge's ruling in the next two years. The calculation of the PBL was made at the end of January. It's early February now. Here too, we must do it carefully. This means a broad inventory and careful consideration, and we will do so. Then April is a logical moment, because we can bring together a number of other things that then play. I hope I have answered Mr Köhler's question as well. Then all I have is Mr Van Hattem's motion. I would suggest that the cabinet should return to this in writing, because it sees the whole process of the climate tables. Mr Wiebes, Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, is in charge of this. I'd like to talk to him and the cabinet will be happy to return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u20	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. Thank you and thank you to the Minister for replying. The Minister gave an introduction on denying reality and the uncritical rejection of climate change. Then I come back to what I mentioned in my first term about what was reported last weekend by Mr Hanekamp in De Telegraaf about the climateutopia. This is now typically based on utopian thinking. There's only one direction possible. There is only that collective goal of sustainability. Any criticism of this is out of the question. This ignores the fact that we are dealing here with totally absurd measures. The climate is not going to change significantly by the measures that are being taken here. We end up with hundreds of millions. In this case, it's already tens of millions, rising to hundreds of millions. If we have to spend 300 million a year on taxpayers' money through that climate envelope, that is chasing a utopia. As Professor Belinfante said in 1974: "The utopia is a dangerous weapon. Then we come to the story about being able to live pleasantly, including the wallet of the citizen, the lower energy bill and more living comfort. I would like to know from the Minister what that more comfort should be. I understand so far that the heat pumps really offer no more comfort than a normal natural gas connection. On the contrary. And speaking for myself, I've delivered an almost energy-neutral home with solar panels and everything in it over the past year. Then you'll see what will be resurrected in December and January. In December it was 22 kWh and in January it was 31 kWh. It doesn't pay off. You really can't connect an electric car to that and make a heat pump work on it. Much more is needed if you want to implement all these measures. It just doesn't come out of practice. Then the Minister said that she could not say what it would cost per house. It talks about an average investment of €8,500, but this can amount to €15,000 that has to be added to a home. Those are the additional amounts. In the end, it's about the totals. Who's gonna pay the rest? That is still not clear from the Minister's reply. Then about the case of knowingly investing in Brabant. I welcome the Minister's commitment to look at this example. I'm assuming that there's still written feedback on that. We still have clear differences of opinion on democratic legitimacy and local autonomy. Many things are already being cooked up at local and provincial level. The Regional Energy Strategies have already been used blindly in budgets on the climate agreement and even on the Climate Law, which has not even been dealt with here. The municipalities and provinces are already three steps ahead and we have checked. That is not healthy for democratic relations in this country. Finally, on the motion for a resolution. I'm glad the Minister wants to see that. I'd like to hear what time she wants to get back to that, so we know where we stand. So far in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u22	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Köhler gave up his opportunity to take part in the second-term debate. I ask if the Minister has the opportunity to respond immediately. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem asked a number of additional questions, including in his introduction. I listen well to Mr Van Hattem, but I hear a somewhat gray turned record from the PVV, which I have heard on the other side of the Binnenhof. A climate denier who continues to deny against better knowledge, a bit like the one who drives the highway and says: 1 ghost rider, I see 100. What does that comfort consist of? A better isolated home is a more comfortable home. Natural gas-free housing must also, by definition, be properly insulated. It'll give you immediate living comfort. Very often, also in the famous district of Palenstein, where Mr Van Hattem has also been, natural gas clearance is linked to the renovation of all those corporation houses that stand there. It is a logical link and the people who have experienced it themselves have often gained that point of living comfort. Then the amount of €15,000. Mr Van Hattem should not quote selectively from what I have said. I said that there is a range of about €2,500 to €15,000, where €8,500 is a kind of average. Right now, we're releasing funding from the climate envelope. I do not think that is a good word either, and I agree that this does not in itself improve the level of acceptance. We have reserved that money for that, namely to ensure that we can start, knowing that it will be more expensive at first than the more experience we have with it, there has been more innovation and there is more scale. That's what we're giving the grant for. In the long run, it will be cheaper and less expensive. If Mr Van Hattem appreciates that, I would, of course, like to report to him on the example in Brabant. Finally, the motion for a resolution. I thought I would come back to that in a week or two, if that is timely enough as far as the Chamber is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u24	Thank you. You say you hope to be able to return to the motion in about two weeks' time. Until then, there will be no vote on the motion. As soon as you return with that, the motion will be put to the vote. Is that correct? Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-7.u25	Fourteen days means right before the recess. Then perhaps we can vote on it after the recess. I'll take a look at Mr. Van Hattem, too. He's nodding. Thank you. I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case, Mr. Van Hattem. We'll be voting on the bill next week. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment pending the arrival of the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and the spokesmen for the next item on the agenda.
