ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	It is a full agenda on the day, but the first item is the report on written consultation Healthy confidence in the development of WMO monitoring. In particular, I would like to welcome the Minister of Health. I see that five speakers have signed up, three of them speaking with speaking time. Firstly, I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a good discussion on the IGJ's report on WMO surveillance. In the first years since 2015, this supervision was under construction, but I am honestly not sure that a supervisor has been appointed in each municipality, although this is a legal obligation. Citizens must always be able to go to a supervisor and, of course, emergencies must always be reported. Unfortunately, the Minister's reply shows that we still do not have a good idea of whether there is a supervisor in each municipality. I find that very undesirable, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to Article 6.1 of the Wmo 2015, municipalities have a legal task to appoint a supervisor for compliance with the Wmo 2015;]] [[Considering that the 2017 Wmo Supervisory Report showed that three municipalities had not designated a supervisor in 2017 and 96 municipalities did not respond to the IGJ's survey;]] [[Calls on the Government to actively address all municipalities without a supervisor or municipalities that have not responded, to point out their legal obligation to appoint a supervisor, so that in 2019 these municipalities have also appointed a supervisor and inform the Chamber about this and any follow-up steps in case of non-compliance with the law for the fourth quarter of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Geluk-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have a few questions about independence. The survey shows that one in ten municipalities themselves supervises and that three out of ten do not qualify their supervisor as independent. Now that is not in the law either, but I think it is important that you act independently as a supervisor. I am very curious about the Minister's reflection on that. How is he going to tackle his system responsibility in this respect, also looking at the principles of the framework-setting vision of supervision? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. Then I will go on to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP. You too have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr President. For the SP it is very important that the supervision of municipal care is independent and effective. When inspection reports are published, they must always be made public so that we can learn from mistakes made. For that reason, I would like to table the following two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities are responsible for the implementation of the policy under the Social Support Act (Wmo);]] [[noting the importance of independent, transparent and high quality supervision for the quality of the implementation of the WMO;]] [[noting that a number of municipalities have invested the independent supervisory tasks with the GGD;]] [[considers that national supervisory frameworks may contribute to the effectiveness and quality of the supervision of the WMO;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the GGD can achieve more effective, transparent and independent supervision of the WMO within a national framework and inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	The second motion concerns the publication of inspection reports. We find it odd that inspection reports from the national inspection should be made public by default, but that this should not be done locally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reports of local supervisors are not standard public;]] [[considers it curious that reports from the national inspection are made public, but not reports from local supervisors;]] [[Considers that disclosure of reports from local supervisors is crucial to make it visible where it goes wrong, to learn from mistakes and to enable municipal councils to carry out their control tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that reports by local supervisors on the quality of WMO policy are made public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Municipalities have been given the task of implementing the Social Support Act since 2015. An important task for the government closest to people. It is of course important to ensure proper supervision in all 355 municipalities. However, decentralizing is letting go. As far as the VVD is concerned, therefore, the Wmo monitoring is a task of the municipalities and is their move. The inspection report has therefore received the appropriate title Healthy confidence for a reason. This brings me to a question to the Minister. Good supervision is defined as: selective, effective, collaborative, independent, transparent and professional. Those are fine concepts, but what does it matter to anyone who objects or complains about the execution of the Wmo? In what way is it secured within the municipality that is clear where you can go? Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with local authorities on the basis that every point of contact is the right one for a resident? In other words: based on healthy confidence, we can count on the good arrangements being made throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. De Lange. Then we have come to the end of speaking time on the part of the Chamber. I understand the Minister needs a short five-minute suspension. That means we'll be back at 10:27.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	I give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions which have been put to him and to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I will deal with the motions and the questions in the order of entry. I shall begin with the motion of D66 and the CDA in part No. 284 which asks the government to actively address all municipalities without a supervisor or municipalities that have not responded, to draw attention to their legal obligation to appoint a supervisor and so on. I naturally share the view of both groups that municipalities have a municipal supervisor to designate. The picture is that most of the municipalities have done so. Nevertheless, it is good to be sure that all the municipalities have done so. That is why I would like to leave this motion to the House. I like to work on it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	The motion in part No. 284: Judgment of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	Then the question of D66 how we could anchor in the Wmo 2015 that the Wmo monitoring is independently designed. In the design, the Wmo monitoring has been independently designed. Under the law, the Wmo, municipalities are held to appoint a supervisor. After the appointment of the supervisor, this supervisor within the meaning of the Wmo and within the meaning of General Administrative Law is empowered to do a number of things. For example, he has the right of access and the right to enter. These are fairly strong powers that a supervisor does deserve and other people do not deserve within the municipality. This ensures the independent position in the design. The VNG has published several publications on the proper organisation of such monitoring. These were established in cooperation with the state inspections and based on the state-wide vision of supervision. A number of principles apply: selective, effective, collaborative, transparent, professional and independent. That was also designed on that basis. The UNG Directive also underlines that independence. Municipalities can do that by, for example, the GGD. But you can also come to a truly independent supervisor within the municipality. There are in itself several possibilities for municipalities to do so. I think it is right to ask the inspection, which reports to me annually on the state of affairs, as well as the report on which we have had this discussion, to be very precise about the degree of independence. Let's keep the finger on the wrist on that side, too. Suppose such signals come out of it, then we will have to see if there is any way to act on them. But, of course, I fully share with Mrs Bergkamp the importance of the supervisory independence. Then the motion-Hijink in part No. 285, which requests the government to examine whether the Health and Health Inspectorate and the Health and Safety Authority can achieve more effective, transparent and independent supervision of the WMO within a national framework. Let me take a look at Mr Hijink: I read this motion in such a way that there is no call for national surveillance, but that there is a demand for a national framework within which supervision can take place. Then I should say that this national framework exists. We have the law and the UNG directive. In addition, we have already assessed whether the supervision has also been adequately and effectively designed by the municipal councils, which have their lectures to keep sharp. So I'm just looking for what exactly Mr Hijink is proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	A brief response from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs Bergkamp is right to say that if four out of ten municipalities admit that supervision is not independent, I think we have a problem. In too many municipalities we have a butcher who approves his own meat. I don't think we should have that. That is why we come up with the proposal to examine to what extent the inspection together with the GGD can come up with a kind of format for how the supervision of municipal care should look like. We do not say that you should do this nationally, but we do say that we need to investigate how we can jointly create a system that will make supervision in all these municipalities independent. In doing so, we do not shift the municipal responsibility, but we do prevent a municipality from organising its own care first and if that goes wrong, we will do the control ourselves. We think that's really undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	The Minister for Judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	Then I advise against the motion, because that is hardly an addition to what we are doing. In addition to the basis, in which the powers are given as a supervisor as laid down in the law, there is a directive of the UNG, which has been drawn up also on the basis of a discussion with the GGDs and the government inspection. That directive gives guidance to municipalities. Then it is the municipal councils that check their own lectures for: is the supervision sufficiently independent, sufficiently effective et cetera? I have just promised Mrs Bergkamp that I would like to keep my finger on the pulse as far as independence is concerned, but there is not one form in which you can guarantee that independence. The GGD is indeed a possibility; then you invest it in a common arrangement. The center municipality construction is also a great opportunity, but it is actually about ensuring that independence within the municipal organisation. If you look at what the VNG directive prescribes, this is: "Independence relates to the material independence of the supervisory official. The WMO supervisor should be able to carry out its actual activities independently and independently, without influence by others engaged, for example, in the policy, procurement or provision of facilities." In short, the issue is not so much a matter for the directive. The directive is crystal clear. The implementation may be concerned, but that is precisely why I am asking the inspection to keep the finger on the wrist very well at that point. If that's cause for concern, we'll probably have this conversation again. We will then consider whether further measures should be taken there, but on the question of framework and directives, I do not think that there is much left to be said about the lack of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Hijink, this is a VSO. We are not supposed to have extensive discussions with each other. I have left you the floor. I would like to give you an opportunity, but then it really must be a short, sharp question and a brief answer from the Minister. Otherwise, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	I am concerned that the directive is inadequate, and Mrs Bergkamp is right to say so. If a municipality can organise its own supervision within the way it can now, it is not independent. So there is something wrong with this directive, and so you should consider whether that should not be sharper. That is all we are proposing: to investigate, not to implement immediately, but at least to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	I do not share that view. There is a directive and that directive is crystal clear. There are a number of concerns about independence. That is exactly what I am saying: let the inspection keep the finger on the wrist and at the moment that those concerns are actually confirmed by the inspection, we will have to get to work on it. The general statement that if a municipality itself organises its supervision, therefore supervision cannot be independent, does not apply. For example, it does not deal with national responsibility. The State Health and Youth Inspectorate is my responsibility and the DG columns that deal with the content of the policy are also my responsibility. So you cannot say that independence is not possible if it falls under the same responsibility. That is possible, but you will have to take a number of further measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs. Bergkamp, it's not your motion, but I see you standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very short, factual question. It is clear that we share the concerns about this independence. When's the inspection coming up with that report so we know what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'll look at the couch in need. Summer? Summer. Is that the answer to that question? Or are you just excited about it in the summer? Around the summer. As soon as I am informed by the inspection, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 286 by Mr Hijink. I'm very sorry about that. You have to really just want you to learn from inspection reports. And yes, reports can be uncomfortable in public, for example for the institution concerned. That is true, but if you want to increase and strengthen the learning effect of inspection reports, you will need to work on transparency. That's what we do nationwide. Of course, it must be ensured that observations are never traceable to the person. That's all true, but there's a sleeve that can be adjusted. Sometimes it listens very closely. I would therefore like to ask Mr Hijink a question. It now says "calls on the government to take action." We really still have work to do to have this conversation with municipalities as well. I would therefore like to ask whether he would perhaps amend his motion in order to instruct the government to explore ways in which we could proceed with public access or further disclosure. Then I could leave the motion to the House's judgment. Suppose he maintains the motion, I would ask him to hold the motion until my conversation with the congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	What are you gonna do, Mr. Hijink?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	I am happy to amend the motion for a resolution, but I would like to add that if we can then make a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u26	Let me take a month or two for that. Then I can do it in a good way with BZK, the municipalities, the GGDs and with the inspection. When it comes to what does and does not work well around transparency, the inspection is of course very experienced. So we need to have that conversation properly, and then I will come back to you with a step that we could possibly take in order to continue the debate on transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u27	For the Acts: Mr Hijink amends the motion and the verdict is then up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Hijink, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u30	Yes, that can be very brief: then we have a solution for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u31	Yes, at least a proposal to which you can then discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u32	Another enlightening question about how the Minister looks at it. He then assumes that the municipality is primarily responsible for ensuring that they also reveal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u33	Of course. It is actually about the agreement you make, as we have made with the inspection: a further agreement on transparency so that the learning effect can be as great as possible. A similar agreement would be made by Mr Hijink, as I understood his words, with the municipalities. I'd like to talk to the congregations about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u34	Did you have any questions open, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes, I have one more question open from the VVD. It is asked in what way within municipalities is secured that everyone knows where he or she can go with his or her complaint or objection. I can only support what Mr De Lange has said about this: you would wish that, whatever door a resident of a municipality knocks, someone would always be behind that door helping him: no wrong by it. No wrong by is more manageable than one window. Not from the locker to the wall, but just make sure you're helped. It is also really up to municipalities to make the best possible public, clear and insightful, where people can deal with their questions or complaints. That's one. And two is to ensure that the "no wrong by" principle is actually introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u37	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that we can proceed with the next debate, pending all the spokesmen.
