ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Postma, on behalf of the CDA, for her question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, whom I warmly welcome. This minister replaces the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. The question is about fraud with license plates. This is the first time you have participated in oral Question Time, so we are going to see how things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	I'm very curious myself, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a report by Nieuwsuur, but also in a vlog by Sven van der Meulen van Vrije Vogels, it became clear that it is childishly easy to order online license plates that are indistinguishable from real. And that in companies that make license plates for the fun, while RDW is the only one authorized for this. Without difficulty, the plates of our prime minister and our king were sent out within 24 hours. The registration is the ID on the car, just like the passport that's for us. With a passport you handle it carefully, you do it yourself and so does the government responsible for the issue. We're surprised it's so easy to order a fake sign. That has major consequences. Criminals are increasingly using stolen cars and false license plates to commit serious crimes, as was the case with the terrible murder of attorney Derk Wiersum. There are also Dutch people who have to deal with traffic fines from places they have never been before. This absolutely must be stopped. Criminals are being played in the cards, safety is at stake and motorists are being put at risk. I have the following questions. The RDW is responsible for issuing license plates. Is it true that there are also companies certified by the RDW that issue official license plates, but also so-called "fun plates"? How can someone get a good-looking copy of a license plate in 24 hours? Who is supervising this issue? What does the process look like from the moment you enter a license plate online to order until it arrives in your mailbox? What control is there from the government, the RDW and the Minister of IenW in this process? Mr. Chairman. Newsuur's report also shows how easy it is to steal a car with a smart key and abuse it for serious crime. Two years it takes to solve the problem with the key. I understand by now that the only tip people with a car with tens of thousands of euros with a smart key are: please keep your smart key in a cookie can, because it will be harder to read it. How is it that the real solution is going to take so long? What action can the Minister take to ensure that this theft is reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Those are two questions in one: one is about plates and the other is about keys. The problem of fraud with or forgery of license plates is well known to my colleagues in the Justice and Security Department, as well as to Infrastructure and Water State. There has been a letter of inquiry with the six-month police report dated 4 July in which the Minister of JenV informs the Chamber about this. It is quite clear that solutions need to be found. That's what the National Road Traffic Agency is working on. In the past, all kinds of measures have been taken. Let me take a look at the precise answers to Mrs Postma's questions here and there. In any case, there is now a system of controlled release and registration. This date back to 2000 and was subsequently supplemented by all kinds of other measures. It is now clear that organised crime is ahead of us again and that a further step must be taken. That next step could be that the ministry of JenV and that of IenW together with the RDW are now looking for a digital license plate. That's a license plate that contains a chip that can be read remotely, the so-called RFID chip. It would make it harder to fake license plates. We are now looking at whether this process can be accelerated towards digital registration plates, also as a result of its emergence. By the way, as soon as there are something new will be needed. That's still a rat race. But the two rulers have planned to inform the Chamber further about that journey before the summer. Mrs Postma also mentioned the smart key in the cookie tin. That is of course something that lies more with the car industry. The market is asking for cars that are not easy to break open and steal. That is where the market is at present somewhat inadequate. But that is not the responsibility of the Minister of IenW; the car industry must do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm just gonna get to the smart key first. There used to be a working party on vehicle theft. That working group was active together with the government, but also with the car sector and with parties such as the ANWB, to combat this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	What about this group, and are they busy working on this? My other point was about the license plate itself. I was just talking about vlogger Sven van de Meulen. That's just a vlogger, a 22-year-old boy. He can order a license plate online. So it's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	I see that a measure was taken in 2000. So you can just order something online. Then it seems to me that something is going wrong in that control process. I can see it. That application comes into an automated system. It's being processed into a pressure system. And in between, that control fails. Such a license plate costs only €12, so I don't have the illusion that many people are active in that control function. So I would just like to ask if the Minister could get a little more focused on that process. He is now talking about the summer of 2020. It's like autumn now, and it's gonna be winter soon. So we're already three-quarters of a year in the summer. And what happens in the meantime? We're bringing in $1 billion in traffic tickets. In between there are a lot of fines that are actually unjustified. People drive according to the penalty system somewhere, but in reality they don't drive there, and they still get a fine. I have a fine on my desk from someone. That fine was imposed in France, but he has not been to France at all. How can the Minister get to work on that? And then I'd like to go a little faster than "summer 2020."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	I do not know whether the working group as it existed exists exactly in this form. I know that the problem of smart keys will soon be discussed with RAI. That is the organization in which car manufacturers are united. How come someone gets a license plate in 24 hours? That is, of course, because there are parties making fake registration plates. That's not in the government's official control chain. But these parties are just running plates. I will ask the two rulers who deal with this matter to answer this in the same letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Your last sentence, Ms. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	My last sentence! These license plates are ordered from companies certified by the RDW to issue official license plates, but also fun plates. I believe that if you're certified by the DMV to issue official license plates, as a company, you need to have better control over that. And I believe the Minister is responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	And if that's what those companies are doing, that's what's right. I will therefore ask colleagues to go into that letter and also the other measures, such as making it more difficult to copy the registration plates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mrs Postma. You did a good job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	Cars are stolen and apparently it's very easy to steal a car. On the internet you can see videos where someone drives past a car and picks up the signal with a laptop. And within 30 seconds or a minute, they'll be driving away with a precious car. Then they look up one on the internet and just copy the license plate at some shady company. That is, of course, harmful and we must act against it. I think it is primarily a legal problem and it requires an approach. But can the directors also look at the role of insurers? The Minister mentioned RAI, from the automotive industry itself. But is it also possible, for example, to use those ANPR cameras we have? I believe that some 700 or 800 are hanging over the highways in the Netherlands. Can we use them to see if there are any weird situations, where for example there is a car first in North Holland and ten minutes later in Limburg? Then we must also attach an signalling function to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	Well, I totally agree with the VVD that in case of theft not only the government as a sort of ultimate mop should mop everything up, but also private parties have their own responsibility. These are the manufacturers, of course the owners and also the insurance companies. This should be discussed not only with RAI, but also with insurance companies. I convey that wish, because that is, of course, the first thing that needs to be done: prevention. Then there is the question of whether the ANPR can be used for this purpose. I have had to study the question of where to use the ANPR for a long time in taxation, and I know by now that intuitive answers are usually not the right answers. So I will make sure that this suggestion is included in the letter that the two rulers write about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	Before I ask a question that this Minister can very easily answer in the sense of "I have to discuss it with my colleagues," I say: you also have a number of instruments for innovation. We must now look at how the car industry could do this better itself. My own iPhone can be locked and unlocked with facial recognition. You could do that with a car eventually. I'm sure you can find some innovation jars for that. So will you also come with an offer to the RAI and the automotive industry to see what new technological developments are possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	Now we have to be very careful that we do put things on the government's plate that are also the government's. Making cars better in the field of theft protection or better detection is not what we call innovation in the sense of the coalition agreement. In the coalition agreement, we see innovation as a way to promote economic growth along the lines of societal challenges. They were appointed in the coalition agreement. It concerns, for example, health, food, all kinds of key technologies such as nanotechnology, but I really think that the market should go ahead with this. We should not put every problem on the government's plate. That is what the fight against crime is all about, but the innovation of car keys is part of the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	The second question on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	I actually hear the Minister say very clearly why we could apply innovation to this. The Netherlands will then become a leader in innovation in automotive technology. What could be against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	There's nothing against that. But no financial intervention by the government is necessarily appropriate. We are focusing on those things where the market clearly has no incentive to undertake, because it is too risky or too far from a developmental stage. This is just about developing existing techniques. We can really expect the market to provide solutions for this. The innovation budget would also be rapidly exhausted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you.
