ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the debate on parental files on childcare allowances. I would like to welcome the parents in the public gallery, to welcome Members of Parliament and, of course, to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. The Secretary of State has asked me to speak first. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, we were also in a rather emotional debate here, including for me, about unjustly stopping the childcare allowance for a lot of parents. In that debate it became clear again what many parents, and we knew by now, that a great deal has not gone well in the past, that ordinary citizens, ordinary parents, have suffered from a surcharge system with a runaway fraud approach and a little human approach when it comes to the way it was handled, the implementation. The Donner Committee rightly called it 'institutional bias', whereby innocent parents were flattened by their own government, without any chance of escape. As Secretary of State, I have already apologized a few times from the bottom of my heart, and I do so again today. The reason why we are standing here today, so shortly after that previous debate, is because last week, black-painted files were handed over to parents by the Tax Administration. In the letter I sent to your room yesterday, I indicated how much discomfort I had like your room and many others when I looked at the footage of those black-painted pages. Before the files were sent, it should have been understood that, although the intention of giving as much information as possible to the parents as soon as possible was perhaps the right one, the effect was a very bad one. That gave us exactly the image we don't want. Instead of a government that finally gives openness, a government that gives multomats full of black-painted pages. All in all, unfortunately, a typical example of a tax administration where the human dimension still does not prevail. We really, really need to get rid of that. What we also have to do, though, is not a secret that I think of this as the existing surcharge system, with a ruthless all-or-nothing character, which we have been using for over a decade now. We will have to change the system in order to solve the problems we face now. That starts with step one, regulating the proportionality of the parents and stopping the all-or-nothing system that has affected the parents so much. As far as I'm concerned, the surcharge system has had its longest time. The creation of a better system, a more appropriate human system, will not be easy but is much needed. Mr. Chairman. I also say to all the CAF 11 parents, some of whom are sitting in the gallery today and some of whom are following the debate differently, that I cannot turn back in a short period of time what we have all done to these parents for ten years. The misery that has happened to these parents has been done to them by us, and I can't make it up to them anymore. I wanted to tell them that in a personal letter this week. What I can do, and what I have done to this day, is to make up for the mistakes of the past with various actions and measures. For the parents in the CAF 11 case, I am in any case extremely pleased that, in addition to my sincere personal apologies, I have also been able to give them the recognition that they have been unfairly treated by the government for years. I know that this was an incredibly important element for many parents: that they were not seen as fraud. They've been treated that way. I am also pleased that we have finally started paying the financial compensation this week on the basis of the opinions of the Donner Committee and that we are looking at the files of parents who want to know why they were considered as fraud. And that we no longer surprise the parents with a thick file full of black-painted pages, but that we have said that we will sit next to them from now on, in order to be able to answer the questions they still have. But I also know that this is only the beginning of the second part. It was 300 parents at CAF 11. But we are going to have many more parents who also want compensation, who also want satisfaction and recognition for the fact that they have been treated as fraud for far too long. So we're a long way from here. We must continue to work day and night at the Treasury and at the Tax Office to accompany this change. That is urgently needed and therefore has until the last minute, this morning, my highest priority. But I also realize that trying to make up for what has gone wrong over the past ten years will not go by itself. That too will remain a bumpy road, a bumpy road that we have to take and where mistakes will be made. That recovery is necessary. That is why the organisation at the Tax Office must also be different. Culture change, which is the hardest to reach by the Tax Administration, is perhaps the most important, because without these cultural changes, we are potentially going to find ourselves in a situation where these parents and we have now all ended up in. It is immensely important that the Tax Administration can become a learning organisation, where mistakes are made and where people also dare to speak to each other for mistakes. Without it, you won't learn from your mistakes. Without it, the human dimension is impossible to achieve. In order to grow to that organization, in which the implementation will look less legalisticly and more at the space for the human dimension, a lot is needed. Perhaps the most important thing is that we decided at the time to place allowances at the Tax Office, but perhaps we didn't think that a creditor is anything other than a large company. You have to be able to deal with this in a different way, where the legalistic character should be less important than that human measure. That is why I have also announced an investigation to see if we can organise the Tax Administration differently, perhaps cutting the fees from the other parts of the Tax Administration. I also commissioned the construction of a large project organisation. We started that at the beginning of the week. It is perhaps hundreds of people who are particularly attracted to solve the problems we have now. That's really necessary. I think that was a tip from a colleague of mine. I call on those people to come and help us. All this, all these actions, is necessary so that I can say with a more calmer heart that when I leave soon, I can leave the IRS in a better condition than I found him two years ago. You're feeling a little bit where I'm going, Mr. Chairman, and the rest of it, I think. There's still a lot to do. In addition to all the problems that I have just mentioned and which I have talked about, there is still a great deal to be done in the coming years, not only in the area of the problems we have been talking about: the surcharge system, the cultural change, the human dimension, but also in the area of all the other problems we have been dealing with from the outset: the huge ICT problems in the Tax Service, the move towards a simpler, fairer and more sustainable tax system, a CO tax, the introduction of the tax on flights, and the further tackling of tax evasion. I can mention a lot of files that I would have liked to work on with heart and soul. But, Mr President, I can only do that if I can count on the support of as much of your Chamber as possible, because I know and because we all know that there will be new incidents at the Tax Office, that we will face new problems and that those problems in implementation will be more persistent and complex than we already think or hope to do. There has to be political space to make mistakes, because really, President and Chamber, they are going to happen. This is where the shoe starts to wring for me. I would very much like to take political responsibility. Two weeks ago, I took it by saying that I could work best with heart and soul on finding a solution for the parents, not by abandoning the problems. But if at the same time it becomes clear that your Chamber is starting to doubt whether I am still part of the solution or becoming part of the problem, then the moment comes when I have to colour my political responsibility in another way. That's by stepping down. That is the time now, Mr President. So this afternoon, I will ask the King to resign me. But, Mr President, I would like to say one more thing. I've done this work. It was intense, it was honorable... with honor and conscience, heart and soul and a lot of love and commitment. I think it is important that, with yesterday's agreement to the 2020 Tax Plan, I managed to get three large tax package laws through both Parliament's Chambers, which included a lot of measures that I thought were important when I started doing this, such as measures that allow us to tackle tax avoidance and evasion, so that large international companies also want to contribute to our society and to be transparent and dare to be in it. I'm also referring to yesterday. I have been able to contribute to the tables, all the tables, of the Climate Agreement with tax measures to make our Dutch society more sustainable, and I have now found a large group of countries in Europe willing to fight with us for a European flight tax. Last year I said in an interview with D66's body magazine: "When I started this job, I had a firm intention to do it in my own way, by being who I am. I do not want to be or become a politician on every wave of public indignation or applause." Today I can at least say that I have remained faithful to myself and to that message. In the end, I wish every politician could say the same to himself when his or her political end is there. In short, I found it an extremely honorable task to serve as Secretary of State for the Treasury for over two years. But today it's coming to an end, and I'm at peace with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you for making this statement and for doing so in the House of Representatives. And that's the way it should be. For now, I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-14.u4	I would like to inform you that the sitting will be suspended until 6 p.m. Then we start with the VAO State participations and then we have a debate on the Navy Note.
