ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u1	I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about middle-rent today, and that is an important issue. This was already the case in the previous period, under the previous cabinet, which set up the Co-operation Table or the Van Gijzel Group, with a report I shall come back to later on which we have benefited. It is something that is mentioned in the coalition's coalition's coalition coalition agreement and it is something that Parliament has the attention. I'm glad. I think the common denominator is that we all want to get more middle rent. We do this for the starters, for the people who have their first job, for young families who are looking for a larger home in a nice neighborhood to raise their children, and for elderly people who are looking for a ground floor home for example. For all those groups, which we all know in our various supporters, it is important that more middle rent is realized. And the fact is that it is now very difficult for many groups to find a suitable home, a home that suits their capabilities, also financially. There is scarcity in the housing market, and that puts pressure on prices. So the prices are rising fast, for both residential and rental properties. This means that people have less choice or don't even have: the choice between renting and buying, choice in the location of the home of choice. Actually, the housing market is a little tied up, and that's not right, and that's what I'm really worried about. I am concerned about the position of these groups in the housing market and about the opportunities of people in the housing market. That is why we are discussing this approach with each other. I have said it before: it is an approach that we should not only promote here from The Hague. After all, it is also something in which municipalities have an important role, in which the market players have a role, in which the corporations have a role, and not to mention the tenants. The cooperation between all these parties is very important. That offer, an affordable offer, is an essential link in the whole. In this middle-rent segment, therefore, there should simply be more offer. We're gonna need more homes. And it's also important that middle-rental housing stays in middle-rental housing. 'Cause middle rentals are for middle income. So it's high on our agenda. I actually see the middle rent as some kind of pressure valve on the housing market. The special thing about the Netherlands is that we actually have very little middle rent. It would be good if we could expand that segment, because it would improve the functioning of the whole housing market. It is also a problem on which we simply have to say honestly: we cannot solve it overnight. That requires commitment over a long period of time from all the parties I have just mentioned. And that Collaboration Table Rob van Gijzel's mid-rent has shown you what you can do if you work well together. Then parties can conclude agreements, then they can come up with innovative solutions that help, then they can inventory together where it really pinches and also see who can offer that solution for that bottleneck. Those recommendations of the Cooperation Table were made by all those parties who sat at that table, i.e. the corporations, the market parties, the tenants and municipalities. They indicated that action was needed from a number of parties on a number of points. And I made sure of that, too. The platform Market exploration middle rental, actually a kind of market place for middle rental, has come about; that was launched last year. The Internal Urban Transformation Facility has been established and is open to applications. Municipalities have continued or set up local cooperation tables. New cooperation tables have also been launched. As an example, I mention Amersfoort, here often mentioned. And I am working on that emergency button, which we will discuss in detail in another debate. And now this proposal for a law is for middle hire measures, as a final part of Van Gijzel's recommendations. It is in fact the drafting of two recommendations from the Cooperation Table. I filed the bill here with your Chamber last September. Of course, your Chamber is all about its own agenda. The Chamber has opted for a very careful examination of the bill and written questions have been asked about it, in my memory in two rounds. It's also a good thing that happens. So what is ahead is another threshold that is removed, a threshold that is still in place and that is obstructing the addition of extra middle rent. Is this bill gonna solve all the problems around middle-rent? No, I don't think so, honestly. Nor does Mr Koerhuis, nor does Mr Smeulders, nor does the others. No, it's part of a solution that requires much more. But it is an important solution and it is a step in the right direction. I'll go into all the questions that have been asked later. But the intention is to build more middle-rental houses by market players and by corporations. More middle rentals. We do this by removing unnecessary steps and thus also high administrative burdens. Then it becomes more attractive for municipalities to do this in a good way and it becomes easier for housing corporations to become active in the middle rental segment. This simply means that if the market cannot or does not want to carry out these projects and they are well in line with the tasks that housing corporations have, they can take on that role in the middle segment. I also say this to housing corporations: make use of the opportunities you have in the non-DAEB segment. They're here and we're making it easier now. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, on which questions have been asked that I will go into: it simply appears that in practice there are a lot of questions about the application of that Housing Act in municipalities. This was unclear, so municipalities do not use an instrument that they actually have strictly in the legal sense. I thought it was important to clarify that so that it would be used. In any case, I think that if you have legal instruments, they should be clear and workable. In short: two changes that make it possible for middle rental to be made faster, not to think at one stroke that we have solved the whole problem, but to take steps in the right direction to ensure that there is more middle rental and that middle rental becomes a more normal segment in the supply on the housing market. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I'll start with a few general questions. Maybe it's nice for the Chamber to have something of a structuring. Then I would like to comment on the impact of Van Gijzel, followed by the questions about the market test, about the Housing Act, about affordability and offer affordable middle rents, partly outside the proposals before us, but there have been questions about this and finally a number of other questions. Mr Kops pointed out that it had taken a long time. As I said, in the meantime, a lot of other things have happened. The bill was filed here in September. Once again, the questions raised by the Chamber are all relevant and contribute to the careful handling of the legislative proposals. Mr Kops also asked if we know how many people are looking for middle rentals. So not those who would like a place to buy, but people who really need a middle-rent house. This is quite difficult, because several bodies keep track of this and investigate it: commercial authorities and the CBS. Next week CBS will present a new report: the WoON. It provides an overview of the entire housing market. Maybe that'll give you some new insight. It's coming. We do know that the extra need for middle rentals is about 100,000 over a period of ten years. But of course it's hard to split that out to people who are necessarily looking for a middle-rent house and people who just want the flexibility that goes with a middle-rent house. These are two different groups and different motives for whom a middle rental house is a solution. Perhaps I can also answer a question from Mr Smeulders. He made the point: it is clear that the market for middle-rent does not work. So there's a market failure. What I would like to add to that analysis is that there are very large differences in the Netherlands. Regionally, there are great differences. We have more relaxed areas in the housing market with a different type of rental prices. You have areas with a very tense housing market: large cities in particular. That's where there's a big need for middle rent. Besides, there's a greater need in all segments. This translates into a pressure on prices for the middle rent. If Mr Smeulders shares that analysis, it makes sense to focus on various measures. Then it is not black and white, but then it is about finding the right balance and also gradations in countering the market failure that he notices. That's what I'm always looking for: a balance with which you dose in the intervention but do something with the problem. So a bill that makes it easier for corporations to become active in that segment fits that approach. The same applies, however, another time we come to discuss this in detail for the purpose of drawing up the emergency button. That's one way to stop excesses. It is then a matter of excesses that occur, and that is something we need to be clear about. It just happens. If you want homes to stay affordable, even in cities where the pressure is so high, that emergency button can provide an answer. We still have to discuss how it works with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll start with Van Gijzel. Mr Ronnes asked if it was a priority enough. Mr Ronnes also knows that it is included in the coalition agreement and is therefore, by definition, a priority. But more importantly, it is a priority in our municipalities, in our cities, alongside a number of other things. Besides promoting, for example, urban construction. In addition to providing a platform for market exploration. In addition to offering opportunities to municipalities to implement this. It is actually part of what I just outlined: the wider package, in which also the emergency button and other proposals from the letter of 22 February have to play a role. But with that, I would certainly like to regard middle-rent as a priority. I think I have already answered Mr Smeulder's question on Van Gijzel's recommendations. I have greatly appreciated the fact that the report was there. I took it very seriously. As I said, the municipalities continue to do so. So it's very good that the report is there. The cooperation tables to which Mrs Dik-Faber referred should be done mainly at the local level. You can help them, for example with that platform, that marketplace that we created and in which BZK has played a pulling role. There are a lot of collaborative tables. If there are still municipalities that are considering setting up such a cooperation table, the Expertteam Housing Building can help with this. We can fly that in, just to put it this way. They can help municipalities ensure that the right parties are at the table. They can help municipalities in the question of what type of questions to discuss with each other. There are now many examples of well-functioning cooperation tables. You don't have to reinvent the wheel if you want to start something like that as a municipality. You can just see how a number of other municipalities have started doing this. But I'm always willing to help with that from BZK. Mr President, then I come to the questions about the market test and the legislative proposal. I told you, the goal is to increase the offer of middle rent. It is really my firm belief that we can only achieve this if we can use the investment power of all parties in the housing market, and that is what this legislative proposal is looking at. It increases transparency in the market so that all potentially interested and capable parties know what is being asked. I notice in the debate that there is something about the word 'test'. That's what it's called, "market test." The objective is to simplify the test, but it is actually just a way to ensure that there is a fair market exploration and to reflect the interest of both market players and housing corporations in a good way. The test contributes to transparency and fair competition and mobilises the investment capacity of all parties in the housing market. That's the best way to add new middle rental offers. If you didn't, I think you're gonna push the parties, the investors, the market players, who are just looking for a good way to realize middle rental, a little bit away. You'll be left with the housing corporations, but with that we don't realize any more middle rent. I want more middle-rent from market players and from housing corporations, not just from one segment, which is perhaps too much now, but not only from the other segment, namely only from housing corporations. In this way, you push parties that I think we need very much in this market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u3	I see an interruption by Mr Ronnes right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u4	I see the Minister's fear that the corporations would be too privileged if you went further into that, but is that a real assumption? Is it real to assume that corporations will start working massively in the middle segment? The most important thing is that the corporations where the need is highest are the middle segment and that they are in a position to do so. They have to be able to do it faster. A further weakening of the market test could mean that this can be done even faster, which I think we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u5	I hope that at the end of the debate Mr Ronnes and I can see that we are in agreement. Let us conclude together that we want to achieve more middle-rent, not only by corporations, but also by corporations. Let us also note that the simplification of the market test, as it is now called, is aimed at creating as fair a playing field as possible. Contrary to the current situation, housing corporations are more easily able to operate in this segment, but we do not drive away the market players who want to achieve middle-rent. We'll have a win-win situation. Municipalities of course work very much together with housing corporations, but if the corporations get the award of the municipality too soon and market parties are no longer interested, we no longer realize middle rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u6	The minister says that municipal authorities with corporations would have a more intimate relationship than with project developers. At that point, I just don't agree with her. The practice is that I see that in townside the director of an investor is more often at a college than a director of a housing corporation. I simply disagree with the Minister on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u7	I don't want to bring anecdotal evidence here. The fact is, of course, that municipalities have a good connection with the housing corporations that operate in their municipalities and in the region. That's important, too. They must have a good bond, too. I don't find anything weird about that. However, I am afraid that if the balance sheet goes in the direction of housing corporations, it is simply no longer attractive for the market players to step in. I do not want to discuss the issue with Mr Ronnes about how close the relations are, because that is not at the heart of the point. The essence of the point is that you don't make it so interesting for market players anymore when the housing corporations take over this place. We want more middle rent. We do not want middle hire from another party, but less from the party that is still active in the segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u8	For us, this is the point of the debate. It is also the only point on which we have tabled amendments. If I'm being very honest, I don't think the Minister's line of defence is very strong. I'd like to ask you about that. Let me be the first to open my main question: what is going to go wrong if the market test is abolished? What's wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u9	The market test sees that there is a fair playing field for parties that could become active in the middle rental segment. So it has to be easier for corporations. Now a huge number of steps have to be taken. Only at the end of that would you possibly as a corporation... Well, we'll make that much easier. At the same time, I don't want to freak out. Of course, it's often the case that when you've had a crisis, you say something wasn't right, and then you go all the way to the other side. I would think that would go too far because I think that we are no longer realising middle-rent because you are potentially driving away the market players who are willing to do so. This doesn't make the playing field better or fairer, but it doesn't make you realize middle rent anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u10	I really think the Minister is putting it way too black and white. If that market test is abolished, then it is not the case that the market players no longer have a fair chance. I have also been an alderman and I often think about project developers and housing corporations. If there is a market, those market players will always apply for part of that market to just make a margin. What I find very difficult is that it is placed so black and white. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she cannot simply have faith in our municipal authorities. If we abolish the market test, municipal authorities can ultimately simply decide whether to do business with the corporations, if they need it, I think that is often not even the case with the project developers. There's nothing wrong with that, is there? Nothing's gonna go wrong, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u11	I don't want to put it in black and white, because my point is that I'm looking for the right balance and that I'm actually sticking a little more in the middle. It should not therefore be a matter of breaking down a situation with only market players... I charge the current situation.. to a situation with no more market players and only housing corporations, because that is what I call 'black and white'. What I am saying is: mobilise the investment capacity of all the parties that can contribute in that middle-rent segment. These are also the housing corporations, but also the market players.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u12	Well, very briefly, Mr. Smeulders, but really one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u13	One sentence, one sentence. The minister makes it pretty black and white again. I'm not saying market players can't build. I'm saying that we can give corporations the space and that city councils can weigh that up. You are also responsible for local government. Just have faith that our municipal authorities will handle this well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u14	Do I have that confidence in our congregations? I certainly have, without a doubt. In fact, I say very often: let's leave that to municipalities, because they have the best view of local housing needs. So I think they should have space in there. But now my job is to make sure more middle rent is realized. Then I'm warning you. There have been good reasons in the past to say that we should be cautious when it comes to housing corporations and everything outside their traditional job of providing social rent. We now say: we think it would be good if housing companies could operate in this segment under certain conditions, but not under such strict conditions as the current conditions. 'Cause now it's not really getting off the ground. The test is very strict. There are a lot of criteria to be met and so it does not happen in practice. I am therefore looking for the middle line, which makes it possible for municipalities to do these things with housing corporations, without driving away market players in this important segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u15	I'm trying to get it a little sharper, because I mentioned in my speech that I'm worried. Housing corporations do have ties with municipalities. They're just making performance agreements. So they sit at the table at least once a year and they meet regularly. Parties that come from outside may not have that access. The Minister says that parties may be driven away or that it is less attractive, but I would like to make it clearer. Isn't it true that if we really get rid of this market test, then we run the risk that market players will simply compete hard because a housing corporation knows the region, already owns a whole property, has links with the municipality and doesn't have to make any returns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mrs van Eijs makes what I have just said even clearer. I was just saying that the word "test" may not be quite the right word. The aim is to ensure that municipalities do a fair market exploration, with maximum exposure to both housing corporations and market players. I just noticed that my answer is that municipalities have good contacts with corporations, is recognized by one and less by the other. The municipality must take the objective into account. The municipality wants to achieve a certain amount of social, a certain amount of middle rent and a certain amount of purchase. It must provide maximum room for this, and it must attract the parties it needs to do so. That can never be just housing corporations or just market players. It's got to be real and-and as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u17	May I conclude, then, that the Minister can confirm this in order to ensure a fair chance for all parties to achieve as much middle rental as possible, at least there is a simple form, as simple as possible, of the market test or fair market exploration or whatever you want to call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u18	Yeah, that's actually what I'm trying to say. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u19	The Christian Union believes that there should be a place for market players but also for housing corporations. I hear the Minister now saying that she fears that if the market test is abolished, market players will be driven away. Now I'm gonna have to see the first market player to let himself get chased away, but okay. I am very curious to know where that fear of the Minister comes from. Can she back it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u20	Of course, I'm a little surprised by this question. My point has been that there is now a market test that makes it impossible for housing corporations to become active in this segment. We want to broaden that. That is what we agreed, and we have included something about this in the coalition agreement. Whether you call it a market test or a market survey, I think that we are looking for the instrument that is manageable, not too bureaucratic or too complicated, or that involves a lot of red tape, and that makes municipalities understand what they want to achieve in a fair and transparent way. In doing so, they should give corporations a chance, but not exclude market participants. I'm genuinely concerned about that at the moment when you wouldn't have anything left to test. Hence this proposal, because otherwise I would not have made this proposal in this way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u21	I understand the Minister's concern. I am trying to sympathize with her, but at the same time we simply did not get the right support from the Minister. That is why my question is whether it is perhaps an idea to try this with each other for a certain period of time in practice. We share the importance of middle-rent and I see housing corporations and market players standing by. My expectation is that we will give an impetus to the creation of middle rental if we delete the market test. The Minister has a different assessment. I don't share that, but let's just do it together and then evaluate in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u22	If you had said "let's do what you propose and then we will evaluate in three years', you would have found me right by your side. I always think you should. I think it is quite something to say that there is now a market test, which we see is too bureaucratic, too cumbersome, too bureaucratic and de facto does not offer the possibility that housing companies can participate. I think it is too big a gamble to go straight to the other side, saying that we are not doing that at all anymore and that we think that these corporations should get in, thereby risking market parties getting out. My proposal is to do what we have agreed on, namely to simplify the market test. If Mrs Dik-Faber says that we should, of course, keep our finger on the wrist and see if it works, I agree with her 100%. Of course we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u23	In any case, I share the Minister's fear that investors will be driven away. We also see this happen every day in Amsterdam and Utrecht where left-wing lectures drive investors away. As far as the VVD is concerned, it's and-and. That endorsement should come from the Minister a little more. We see that the corporations have a total of about 200 billion on the shelf. If it's up to the VVD and the CDA, 10 billion for middle rent. And we read in a press release that investors have 2 billion on the shelf. Can the Minister agree that it is and-and that we need and can continue to use both groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u24	That's what I just argued. I believe that we can achieve more middle-rent housing if both parties, both market players and housing corporations, become active and become more active in this segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u25	It may be a bit difficult for the Minister, but I would nevertheless like to call on her to take a look in Amsterdam and Utrecht to see how investors are being chased away. My ears blurted from the remark that the Christian Union has not yet seen investors being chased away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u26	It wasn't really addressed to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u27	No, that's the hard part. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u28	I'm sure we'll talk about that later. A number of spokesmen have asked how much extra middle rent could then be realized. It's kind of hard to quantify that exactly, but let's do a math exercise. If this simplification of the market continues, this means that it will be easier for the corporations to use part of the borrowing capacity they have in the non-DAEB branch of the company, which is 9,8 billion......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If they would do that in total, this is a theoretical exercise, so they can build about 45,000 middle-rent homes. But again, that's maximizing the amount that would be available. If I try to zoom in a little bit more on the housing deals that I now close in the scarcity areas, I will also set up the deployment of corporations on middle rent there, so that they will invest in that segment where they can and where they need to. I will also challenge the parties with whom I conclude the housing deals to agree on this. But, once again, this cannot of course come from the corporations alone; the market players must also contribute to this. I shall now turn to the specific questions put by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Ronnes on this point. We know what the extra borrowing capacity of corporations is, but that is, of course, a little bit different than that it is somewhere cash on the shelf, I say to Mr Koerhuis. But if you assume that 9.8 billion is mentioned, you could bet it on the middle rent, or you could, if you didn't do that at all, pay it out to the SGEI branch. Then it is about EUR 4 billion. I am not suggesting either, because it is precisely because they are committed to middle-rent and remain active in the social sector. In any case, these funds should be used for local housing in a way that is best suited to that region or municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u29	I think this is an interesting point to ask the Minister. This cabinet has been sent away with the order to give priority to middle rental. Does the Minister not agree with me that the money available for this middle-rent should be used as much as possible for this middle-rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yes. If that local is the best choice, sure. That is what these cooperation tables are all about and, of course, what these specific municipalities are about: it must be as consistent as possible with local needs. I think Mr Ronnes and I agree that it is not exactly the same everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u31	No, I didn't. That is why it is important to see how we can strengthen that, so that it will actually happen in the places where it is needed and the money goes to the middle rent. I will see if I can make a suggestion to the Minister in the second term. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u32	I look forward to that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u33	Very good. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u34	I'd have made it a little sharper. I get it, because in the end, housing policy is decentralised. As Mr Ronnes said, we have sent the cabinet on the road to prioritize middle-rent and to engage in talks with provinces, municipalities and corporations. In these talks, can the Minister not make agreements with provinces, municipalities and corporations to realize that money, that 4 billion, for 10 billion in middle-rent housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u35	I was just saying that if you look at the highest macro level, you're talking about those amounts. However, the appointments and conversations take place on a more zoomed level. Then it's about a housing market region or even, like in Groningen, about the city of Groningen. Of course, you can't make arrangements at those tables about the big picture, but you can make arrangements that reflect the local need. It's often about more middle rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u36	I can make it even clearer: if she makes agreements with that city or with those regions, can she then take with her how much money is in those middle-rental branches of corporations and whether all that money is going to be used for middle-rent and not, especially in cities like Groningen and Amsterdam, for even more social rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yeah, when it comes to making agreements that see in middle rent. In doing so, I would like to inform Mr Koerhuis that I believe that, in the end, the balance is made locally as to what is needed. In many of these areas there is, of course, also a need for social housing. One doesn't rule out the other. Often it's more of both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u38	Sometimes I feel like I'm the opposite of a Courhouse. Actually, I wanted to ask another question. It is very good that housing corporations will soon be able to build more homes for those on average income, which I very much welcome. But how do we ensure that there is no perverse incentive for housing corporations to build just those houses? Because they have to pay taxes on the social housing, the landlord's tax, but that does not apply to the middle-rental housing. How do we prevent housing companies from focusing on the wrong segment in order not to have to pay taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u39	Well, I didn't think it was the wrong segment. I thought Mrs Beckerman also thought it was a relevant segment; I believe she started with that. We have, of course, made good agreements, which are also laid down by law, on how housing companies should deal with them. We have distinguished between SGEIs and non-DAEBs. We have also agreed on when something can or cannot be transferred. So I think the system as such offers sufficient guarantees for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u40	Both types of housing need to be built, although I am very concerned about what such a middle-rental housing will cost, but there is no guarantee. I find this a disappointing answer. You have a bag of money and you can build two types of homes, a cheap one and a more expensive one. With that more expensive one you have a higher yield and you also have to pay less tax on it. Then there will be an incentive to build the very expensive one for which you get more rent and you have to pay less tax on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u41	However, we have agreed that the non-DAEB part of what housing corporations do should be at the service of what they do in their SGEI section. I therefore believe that this is sufficient to ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u42	I think I agreed with Mrs Beckerman, so that's interesting. I would like to come back to that point of money that would be on the shelf. In my view, it is also partly in the reserves of housing corporations that they should be careful about. We are talking here about middle housing and social housing, but I actually miss one of the three things I always mention when it comes to the investment capacity of housing corporations, and that is sustainability. I also hope that the Minister will take this point into account in her talks with the various regions on housing deals and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u43	I'm glad Mrs Van Eijs is doing that. How best to use resources depends indeed on local needs, commitments and priorities. That means it could be middle rent or social rent. I agree with Mrs Van Eijs that it is precisely about making the social housing stock more sustainable. So we don't disagree about that. I believe that we have often discussed this in other debates. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if middle hire could contribute to more diversity in neighbourhoods and to more diverse neighbourhoods. I do think that's true. As far as I am concerned, this step in simplifying the market test is a positive contribution to more mixed and liveable neighbourhoods, which is, of course, an end in itself. As Mrs Dik-Faber also knows, corporations do have the means to invest in them, but of course they are not unlimited. So this is an important way of doing that. We have just had an exchange of views on the possibilities that would exist to completely abolish the market test. I didn't recommend that. I advised against that. Another suggestion was to exempt homes up to €1,000 altogether. I am not in favour of that either. That would bring the same risk. This would also be at the expense of market transparency and the desire to interest as many parties as possible in investment in middle rental. So also of this I say: don't do that, make sure we don't scare anyone away and that we focus on realising more middle-rent. The Council of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u44	First, finish this piece. Or did you come to the end of what you wanted to say about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u45	Not quite yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u46	Why don't you finish that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u47	Okay. The Council of State asked Mr Ronnes and others indeed had comments on the proposal. The Council of State has noted that it must remain fair. It's about fair competition. I said to the Council of State in response to this: the construction of middle-rent housing must take place in the non-DAEB branch, the non-State aid branch. It is important that there is transparency and a level playing field. This proposal promotes this. The planned investments should be published on a national website. I have responded to the comments made by the Council of State in this explanatory statement, because the opinion of the Council of State was to send the bill to the Chamber and to take those comments into account. I have therefore gone into this in detail in the further report. Then there's the return requirement. Mr Smeulders asked why it would still apply and whether this means that housing companies should in practice ask for maximum market rental. I have just gone into the issue of fair competition, which we are striving for. This means that housing corporations are not obliged to apply for maximum market rental for each individual non-DAEB dwelling, but the branch as a whole must operate on market terms, just like other market participants. This is not a return requirement, but that means that the Authority considers housing corporations whether the non-DAEB branch as a whole is market-based. The municipalities also have the possibility to make agreements with the non-DAEB branch of the housing corporations. These can, for example, be about the residual land value in combination with agreements on the rental height. That was just the subject of the interrupting debate with Mrs Beckerman: funding in the non-DAEB that is unprotected and has no collateral in the SGEI section. Mrs Van Eijs had also made a few comments on this. Mr Kops asked if middle hire would become SGEIs. That is not the case. It can never be an SGEI activity. That's not allowed either. Mrs Van Eijs asked if we should perhaps have a hand-out for the market test. I think that can indeed be useful for municipalities, so I think we should make sure that this hand-out is there when the legislative proposal comes into force, so that the municipalities know exactly how to apply this new, simplified market test. I can imagine that in that hand-out we will set out exactly the steps, so that it will be made easier. Then, of course, we must encourage the municipalities to do it as much as possible. Finally, this section. I have just said something about how the change in law contributes to mixed districts in my view, but Mrs Van Eijs was still wondering whether the authority is not very strict about this. I have no signs that the Aw is too strict with that. Sometimes, of course, it has to maintain complicated regulations, but precisely because the bill simplifies, simplifies the law, it becomes easier for the Aw, I think, to do so. Mr. Chairman. That was this block. I can see Mr Smeulders at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u48	I've seen him, too, so I'll give him the floor right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u49	As GroenLinks, we are pleased that the cabinet proposes that corporations will no longer have to meet return requirements at project level. That's what the Minister was just talking about. But if the overall return on all projects is to be right, the risk seems to us that they may be able to reduce the rents for a number of projects, but that they will have to increase the rents on a number of other projects, otherwise you will not get the average and you will not collectively be market-oriented. I hope that is not the case, but I am very curious to see how the Minister views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u50	Even more important than the way I look at it, is how the Authority looks at housing corporations. It will therefore look, in accordance with the agreements we have made, whether the non-DAEB branch as a whole operates on market terms. She'll test for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u51	That didn't take away my fear. Because, on the one hand, the cabinet is therefore proposing the step to stop having that requirement of return at project level. But does the Minister agree with me that there is the following risk: if you have to have that demand across your entire portfolio, then you have to ask for more money in other projects, because otherwise the average will not remain the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u52	Well, I'm less afraid of that than Mr Smeulders. I believe that the requirement that is being made is quite reasonable. This is also in line with the agreements made on SGEIs and non-DAEBs. The authority is responsible for taking a good look at that. I think Mr Smeulders is afraid of outliers. Well, I don't think that's a very big risk in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u53	The Minister has just referred to the question I raised earlier about the role of the Authority housing corporations when it comes to regulation of SGEIs and non-DAEBs, for example, mixing. This, of course, shows that I want these mixed neighbourhoods and neighborhoods, and possibly buildings. But I also asked about, for example, sustainability measures in housing corporations. I am told that the Authority interprets housing corporations very strictly. These are things that I think all of us would logically say: this must be done by the housing corporation of course! I was wondering if she could pay extra attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u54	I can promise. I did ask this question in response to Mrs Van Eijs' question. I'm not getting it back the same way, but I'd like to tell her that we'll be paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to answer some questions about the Housing Act. Maybe I should start at the beginning. This also concerns Mr Kops' question: why is it necessary to delete the word 'cheap'? Do you have to do that with a law change? I have already said something about this in my introduction, but it really means that in practice there has been too much uncertainty for the municipalities about the use of the housing regulation in middle housing. And if there is any ambiguity, then municipalities are not going to do so. Thus, an instrument that is strictly applied is not used or used by municipalities. That is what this clarification is looking at. And if something is not clear and is not used in practice, then I think it also says something about the law as such. I therefore welcome the fact that we are introducing this clarification into the law. And if that happens, then it is intended that municipalities will use it. The clarification alone is of course helpful, because that is a threshold that we are dealing with now. In addition, municipalities should periodically review their housing regulations every four years. It seems to me to be a good thing, and I would like to make arrangements with the VNG to make this change known to the municipalities so that they can use it and involve it in their revisions. And perhaps even the model housing regulation of the VNG can play a role in this. Mr Smeulders' question on this point. He said: is it not really unnecessary that middle hire can also be regarded as scarce? Well, I don't think so. The system of the Housing Act indicates that it is necessary to look at where this scarcity lies at a local level. And of course it has effects; unbalanced or unjust. And it is the case, as I have just argued, that municipalities could actually designate housing in the middle hire segment as "scissors" by now. It is, and we have just said so, that local conditions are very different, so the local housing market is different everywhere. The Housing Act provides the opportunity to distribute the scarcity fairly. Then this happens in such a way that the municipality develops its own policy, appropriate to the local situation, to combat this scarcity. In doing so, this proposal will help. Mrs Van Eijs built on that. She said, what are these disproportionate and unbalanced effects? In practice, municipalities will often use search times and housing needs as indicators. The municipality is best aware of the local situation and can therefore best assess whether there is scarcity with disproportionate or unbalanced effects. So that differs from one municipality to another. I do not think you can set a standard for this at national level, because it would not be useful for the various municipalities. We do have research that shows that about 180 municipalities have housing regulations. This means that there is indeed a shortage of these municipalities which has unbalanced and unjust effects. The establishment of such a housing regulation would be a good tool for these municipalities to better distribute this scarcity. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about affordability and the offer. These are all subjects that naturally affect the proposals that lie ahead, but they actually go beyond that. I referred just now to the letter that was on the doormat with you on February 22nd. We will soon have a wide-ranging discussion on this. I believe we have that meeting at the end of April. But since questions have been asked about it, I think it would be good to say something about it. There are several measures that all have a certain coherence. I would also like to get to work on this as soon as possible. The first measure concerns a legislative proposal that deals with the rent-based approach of housing corporations. It needs to be adapted in terms of content and there will be an opportunity to make local arrangements. That bill was announced in the letter. I'm trying to pass that bill around the summer recess to your room. The second bill deals with rent and income limits. These include the announced measures such as temporary rental discounts, differentiation in SGEI income limits, the movement on income-dependent rental adjustments and the very low rents. I hope to have that bill here this fall. The third bill follows from the review of the revised Housing Act. There, further efforts are being made to create local space by deleting all kinds of detailed legislation. And I will inform the Chamber before the summer about the position of middle income on the rental market and how it can be improved. Then I will also deal with the impact of the emergency button. So there is a whole series of proposals, effects, legislative proposals that have been announced in previous letters and that we are discussing with each other at another time in an AO. Then there are the specific questions on this point. By the way, I wanted to start with a question from Mrs Beckerman. She felt that, of course, because she is now standing at the interrupting microphone. Her concern is that more middle rent means less social rent. I don't think that should be the case. I told you, local conditions are very different. If it is found locally that more middle rent is needed, it can also be very good to say: and more social rent is also needed. So it's about the total. This is what municipalities make agreements with corporations and other parties. They also agree on the size of the social rental sector and on the size of the middle rent. In addition, tenants can also make agreements on this. So I think that it can be implemented locally in a good way. Mrs Dik-Faber asked: can we better monitor how mid-term rental actually comes about? I think we should do that. It's also tracked. I was just referring to what comes out next week from the CBS: WoON. That's a housing market investigation. I'd like to keep a close eye on rental development anyway. We have the monitoring lease policy. He keeps an eye on how it develops every year. We follow the new building developments through figures from the CBS. I am in contact with the regions, both through the housing deals and wider, across the country. So it is not just the cramped areas, but also the areas where, for example, shrinkage is taking place. So this monitoring is incredibly important. I am of course also reporting to the Chamber on this in the State of the Housing Market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u57	I was a little hesitant, because I thought the Minister would go into the question of affordability a little longer. But it was a very short block, while at this point there is a very big concern of the House of Representatives, which is widely worn. The goal is not to build middle-rent houses. The goal is to ensure that people with an average income can also get a good affordable rental house. The Minister cut that loose. She announces a lot of conversations, laws and letters. I would like to put the question very simply: by when will the Minister ensure that the rents are actually affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u58	Look, if there was such a thing as a silver bullet in the housing market for the problems, we would all put it right away. But of course there is no such thing. This requires a long-term commitment. This requires a whole range of instruments, which often require legislative changes, which also run through this Chamber. I realize that like no other. I have different goals in this regard. Many of these goals the whole Chamber shares with me, namely that there should be more offer. There must be local space to do what is necessary for the local situation. The rents have to be controlled. We have talked about excesses in the housing market in another debate. We'd like to deal with them with each other, too. So yes, there is a whole palette, of which affordability is of course an important part. I have said it many times, and Mrs Beckerman and I agree: the housing corporations have three important tasks. One concerns affordability. I just made a whole series of proposals that are coming up. They are all part of ensuring a well-functioning housing market and affordability, appropriate to the specific situation of different groups in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u59	A long answer, but the short summary is: we really have no idea when we're going to do something about these bizarre rentals in the free sector. And they're bizarre. Of course, I'm not for a silver bullet. I'm not for bullets at all. Of course we have to change laws, but that's exactly what we're doing here today. We're proposing two. I would like to hear a substantive response from the Minister to the proposals we have put forward today. We can change the law today to make sure those middle rentals are affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mrs Beckerman asks a short question in itself, but gets a long answer, because there is a lot to be done on the housing market. Then let's focus on middle rent and excessive rent increases. In fact, we have had another debate on this recently, because I do want to deal with these excessive rent increases. I have also announced that I am working on the emergency button, one of the opinions of the Van Gijzel working group. I also want to offer room locally to deal with that. I use the equation of the silver bullet, because I think everyone understands that this can't be solved at the press of a button. There is no simple solution. It requires a multitude of solutions. Just because the SP considers affordability important, I call on the SP to contribute constructively to those parts that are very important for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u61	Continue
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u62	Then I come to the flow of tenants. That was a question from Mrs Dik-Faber. That actually has to do with the whole of the housing market, where the flow is stalling at the moment. That means there's got to be more offer. That just means building more homes. But it's also about specific groups. I think Mrs Dik-Faber might have mentioned that too. As a cabinet, we said: we have a line of action, living and caring. It sees that it should be easier for the elderly to move on to a suitable home for them. It sees that we support and promote specific housing concepts for older people. We focus on income-dependent rent increases and appropriate rents for high incomes in social rents. A motion for a resolution was adopted on that, by the way. This also creates space for other groups that need it. Here too, therefore, there is a need for a multitude of measures and instruments to improve this. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked if it is possible for municipalities to make agreements on middle rents that last longer than ten years. Municipalities have different possibilities, as Mrs Dik-Faber knows. She herself talked about the zoning plan, but there are other ways to do so. It may, for example, be used for the issue of tenders or land in debt securities. Then you can also set conditions at the rental price. The municipality can make arrangements in conversations with landlords to keep the house for the middle segment. I also think it is important for the municipalities to take advantage of these opportunities across the board. In order for municipalities to be able to do so, I have developed a factsheet together with the VNG to make it much easier for them to understand. Mr Nijboer was also looking for a way to further regulate the rent increases. I've just discussed that with Mrs Beckerman. In addition to what I just said, I mentioned all the excesses in the housing market generally. Of course, you'll see it too. I had lost sight of Mr Nijboer for a moment, but I found him again: he is in the room talking to a colleague. Continue quietly, Mr. Nijboer. The excesses often concern specific locations. If you look at the higher level here again, you can see that the rent increase around 2013 was already a while back. At that time, prices in the regulated sector increased by 4.1% and by 2.9% in the free sector, for incumbent tenants. That was pretty big. After that, the annual increase has been somewhat watered down. For example, in 2018, that increase in the free sector was 2% versus 1.8% in the regulated sector. So that rise has been watered down a little bit. However, there are individual specific situations in which there may have been high rent increases. That is why I believe that it is necessary to develop the emergency button to tackle these excesses, including in the middle rental segment, so that the tenant is better protected at the beginning of the rental period and so that we also distinguish between neat landlords and speculators. That is a debate I have had with Mr Nijboer on a number of occasions. Mr. Chairman. Let's see. Maybe there's some interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u63	I do want to give you some space. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr President, on the previous point. During the consultation on the bill, it emerged that municipalities would like to have more opportunities to make agreements on mid-term rentals for a longer period than ten years. Has the Minister now replied: in principle do municipalities already have this possibility? Did I get that correctly? Because I think that wish has not been put forward for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u65	I have just mentioned a number of options that may indeed apply for a period longer than 10 years, so that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u66	Are we talking about a period of 15 or 20 years? The Minister indicated that she made a VNG factsheet available. Is that enough? I do have a few questions about this, because of course that question was raised in the consultation round for some reason. Is this now sufficiently addressed in all the steps we take together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, in my opinion, I do. The possibilities I just outlined are different. This means that municipalities also have a choice in which ones they want to use, which are best suited to them. Do you or don't you have land on land? That sort of thing. However, it is important for the municipalities to make real use of these opportunities. Hence the cooperation with the VNG, hence the insight into the municipal instruments for middle hire, so that municipalities can make their own assessment, which suits them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u68	Okay, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to ask the Minister for a technical explanation of what the law for the free sector looks like now. Is it true that, if you want to raise the rents with a sitting tenant, it's actually unlimited, unless you ask for an amount that you're actually bullying someone away with? For something worth €1,500, you can't ask for €5,000, because that's bullied away. But is it true that this is allowed to continue, in fact unlimited and with a fairly short notice period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u70	That depends very much on the contract, but of course Mr Nijboer also knows that. Often, of course, clauses are included in a contract that see a controlled rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u71	Asking about that, yes, if that's what you agreed. Then you agreed that the rent would increase up to 2% plus inflation or 3% plus inflation. Then they'll stick to it. But there are of course best landlords who just have open contracts, especially private landlords. Is it true that there's actually no limit to it, except you can't bully the tenant away with an idiot rent? Doesn't that have a huge impact on families, on people who can't go anywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u72	As I said, there can certainly be specific situations where such a clause is lacking in the contract. Eventually such a tenant can of course go to the judge and then you can see what the purpose of the landlord has been to do this. So there are limits to that. Mr Nijboer himself called it bullying. You're right. You can't do that. Of course it is wise to make sure that you have such a provision in your contract, but I understand very well that in times of scarcity that sometimes goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u74	I think I've said enough about the emergency button. Maybe finally on this part the following. A few comments have been made on Utrecht and Amsterdam. Those are indeed the two cities where the pressure is perhaps the highest at the moment. Mr Ronnes asked about it and Mr Koerhuis said a few times about it. I think, however, that these municipalities, too, show how important it is to find a balance between giving opportunities to convert the market on the one hand, and, on the other hand, looking very closely at what is in the interests of the residents of Amsterdam, the residents of Utrecht. This also applies, of course, in other cities in the Netherlands. The fact is that these municipalities can't take care of that middle rent on their own. They need cooperation, they need market players, they need corporations for that too. The municipality needs to define where that balance is somewhere. And if that balance fails, it will take a while before we establish that with each other; that's the nasty thing, especially with the middle rent. But if that balance fails, if that happens, you'll be doing the middle income in your city a disservice. So I'm really calling on the municipalities to keep an eye on that. If institutional investors, i.e. the investors who are just looking for a normal return, at some point would say that they can no longer achieve such a return in a municipality, that is obviously a problem. I think that as a municipality, you should worry about the position of middle income in your city. Mr President, I would like to touch on a number of questions that have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u75	Before you do so, I shall give the floor to Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u76	Is the Minister getting any signals about that? My group is getting signals, for example from Amsterdam. Institutional investors say that we are no longer living in Amsterdam with the demands that are being made there. Does the Minister receive these signals? Is she talking to the municipalities about that? And, if so, what are the results of that, or what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u77	The answer is I'm getting those signals, too. The answer is also that this is a subject of discussion with, for example, Amsterdam, but it is really also about other cities. And my main message is to keep an eye on how to handle that position of middle income in your city best. It is often said here: it is about the policemen, it is about the people who work in the care, it is about teachers. They are needed in the city, and for them there must be middle rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u78	The Minister says what her message is, but the crux of course is: is that message coming and is something going to happen to it? My concern is that we all see what is going on and all hope that something will happen to it, but that there will be no improvement. How can we be sure that these things are going to change and that these market players are also getting grounded? Because, in my view, this is the real reason why the market players are not getting a foothold. That's not because of the few corporations that are going to build some middle-rent housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u79	I think you should say that market players keep their feet to the ground. So we have said: I am going into the scarcity areas that are trying to close residential deals. This is also happening in the region of Amsterdam, also in the region of Utrecht. We're in the middle of a conversation with these regions. Those are really good conversations, by the way. And it takes a lot of work. I have said before: if we make such a living deal with each other, this is a long-term commitment, including from the Empire, including from the municipalities concerned and also from the parties that will soon be needed. So this is part of those conversations. I'm glad they're walking. I'm positive about what can come out of it. This is part of the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Koerhuis, after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you. I taste a bit that the Minister shares the concerns of VVD and CDA about Amsterdam and Utrecht, which drive investors away. Is it perhaps an idea to involve investors in working out these housing deals? I refer to the National Housing Agenda, with which the sector association of investors has signed. Can the same happen with the residential deals of Amsterdam and Utrecht?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u82	I don't think it's necessarily necessary to sign with you, but I think it's necessary to speak with you. Indeed, as I have already said, all parties are required to do so. The party of institutional investors is needed as an investor. They must be able to cope with the conditions laid down. I am always talking about the balance sheet: we have to keep an eye on it, including regional and local. The houses are not realized by us, but by the housing corporations, by the market parties, by the developers. We're not doing it for ourselves, we're doing it for the house seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u83	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u84	I understand from the minister that she won't let investors sign with her. But they're at the table. Can we hold the Minister that investors will at least be positive about the Amsterdam and Utrecht deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u85	My aim, of course, is to make a living deal with both regions with which all parties can get out of the way. The remaining questions. I'll find out later if I missed anything, but for the sake of time I'll answer a few final questions. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about dispute resolution in the free sector. She referred in her contribution to the recommendation of the Co-operation Table, which states that in the case of rental contracts between landlords and tenants, the rental commission can give advice in case of rental and service disputes. I joined Van Gijzel's recommendation. IVBN has also been sympathetic. So tenants and landlords have first focused on achieving the social rental agreement and now that there is, it is time to make these agreements. Then the conversation will indeed be picked up again. I support her efforts. Mrs Dik-Faber also had a question about the rental teams. I think they certainly have added value. They operate in a number of cities. They also share their knowledge, which also applies to information to tenants. In the approach of good landlordship I have also made agreements on the cooperation between the rental teams and the municipalities, which is further intensified. As an example, I mention the student cities, where the rental teams will facilitate. And also in the residential deals we just talked about, they come back. The Ronnes motion was also discussed in another debate. I informed the Chamber by letter of 9 March that I am currently mapping out the social and financial positions of housing corporations for the short and long term. I really need new figures for this, which I have already said to Mr Ronnes. These figures must be reliable, and we must involve all kinds of issues, such as sustainability and calibration of the new WSW model. Those figures can influence the results again. So it's a tricky, complex and technical whole, which has to be done very carefully. I said that where I could speed up, I would very much like to do that. But I'm afraid it really takes time. I will inform the Chamber about the results by the end of this year. Perhaps finally, Mr Kops' status holders. He comes back to that every debate, so I think I should give an answer in every debate. He knows, as I said yesterday, that the task of housing status holders has been laid down in the municipalities. I'll leave that to them. Some use a mandatory urgency and allocation, while others opt for agreements with housing corporations. I'd like to leave that to them. I think that's also the best way to deal with this. Mr President, I realise that I have skipped a few questions, but I hope I have answered the questions broadly. I felt a little bit haunted by time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you, Minister. It's true, time is fast. I therefore propose that we limit ourselves to three minutes in the second term of office. I shall first give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD Group. I hear people say it's three minutes long. I would say that there is no need to use it in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the debate so far. Indeed, the first term went fast. A number of questions have not been answered. As I said, today we are going to simplify the market test. Corporations need to get to work. The mid-rental branches of corporations have 4 billion cash on the shelf or are in the bank account. That 4 billion could lead to an investment of 10 billion in middle-rent housing. We've heard the Minister's response. Together with the CDA we have come to the conclusion that it may be even tighter. Especially in cities such as Amsterdam and Utrecht, the money should actually be used to the maximum for middle rent and not for even more social rent. We'll come up with a motion on that in a moment. I had another question about the following. The Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw allows corporations too quickly to give social housing to investors as collateral. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that corporations can develop middle-rental housing in their commercial sector more easily by means of the Law measures;]] [[noting that corporates can provide collateral from their social branch to investors to attract funding for their commercial branch;]] [[Whereas, in the event of bankruptcy of the social branch of corporations, the WSW uses that collateral to reduce losses for the corporate sector;]] [[whereas the WSW now allows corporations to provide that collateral to investors if the funding compared to the WZ value falls below 50%;]] [[calls on the government to make the WSW give the collateral less quickly to investors and to strengthen the standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the House of Lords. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u88	I had already indicated in the first period that in practice the WSW often uses the 40% standard. Maybe that's a good standard to record. Finally, the amendment to abolish the lease tax, the Amsterdam tax, for middle-rent housing to allow corporations to build middle-rent housing and keep middle-rent rents low. Mr Ronnes and I have tabled an amendment on this. I hope the Minister will take that up in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u89	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I will confine myself to the three motions I am going to table with a brief explanation. First of all, the motion which Mr Koerhuis has just announced about the funds available for the middle-rent industry, the free sector within the housing corporations, the so-called 'commercial branch'. The content of the motion speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the State of Housing 2018, the indicative spending area housing corporations (IBW) has been published for the non-DAEB branches of housing corporations, which shows that a one-off payment of 4 billion from non-DAEB to SGEIs of housing corporations is possible;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement gives priority to free-sector housing;]] [[calls on the government to agree with the corporation sector to explicitly use available funds in areas where there is a need for them for more middle-rental housing in the free sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I introduced the idea of working with different SGEI limits. I would like to have a little more clarity about that and see more about the effects at the time you would differentiate with the SGEI limits. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas housing corporations primarily focus on services of general economic interest, such as building, renting and managing social housing;]] [[Considering that the SGEI borders are defined nationally while the Van Bochove Commission recommends that municipalities be allowed to vary the SGEI limits locally;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether the corporations invest more in rental homes with a rent between €700 and €1,000 if the SGEI limits are differentiated locally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u92	I just had an interruption at the CDA about this. I understand that the CDA, like the VVD, also stands for the region and does not want the region to pay for higher social rental limits in Amsterdam and Utrecht. Then there is the question to Mr Ronnes: who is going to pay the higher social rental limits? Who's gonna vouch for that? Are these, for example, the municipalities that can do that locally? Are we going to compensate for this, so that the municipalities also guarantee the piece under €720?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u93	I am somewhat surprised by this question, because this is a repetition of moves from the first term. I am concerned that the effects will be made clear with this motion. You are actually asking for the answers to the questions that the motion will ultimately bring with it: what are the financial effects, if they are at all, and what are the effects of making homes more available?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u94	We're not going to do the whole debate again. A question's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u95	The VVD thinks this is a dangerous motion, because you have the rest of the country pay for Amsterdam and Utrecht. I'm sorry the CDA is hiding now. I really have little to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u96	I didn't hear a question in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u97	I do not agree with Mr Koerhuis, but let us not repeat the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u99	Finally, a motion on the subject of no market test for middle hire. We have discussed this at length, but I am still not convinced by the Minister's reply, in which she does not really say what the position of the corporations means in relation to the developers. I think that there is more freedom for the corporations, without causing any damage to the relationships. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the construction of middle-rental housing by market players is barely off the ground and that the need for such housing is high and urgent;]] [[whereas corporations can and want to realize middle-rental housing, but are placed for authorisation procedures and mandatory market tests;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare a general measure of governance to allow the construction of rental homes with a rent of up to €1,000 per month by means of an exemption from the market test by corporations;]] [[invites the Government to examine the effectiveness of the general administrative measure after three years and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u101	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my term, I have particularly drawn attention to the problem of people sitting in a rental house whose rent can suddenly be increased by huge amounts: €100, €150, €200 in the month. I can do that. It's okay if you don't have it in your lease. Seriously, people aren't negotiating their lease all the way out, and certainly not now. They'll be happy when they find a house. The Minister's answer is, they'll go to court. But that's the problem: it's allowed by the law. I have tabled two amendments to amend the law so that this is no longer possible. Unfortunately, I have not heard a substantive response to that. By the way, I have heard this from fellow chamber members in this debate, who share these concerns. These are MPs of opposition parties and also coalition parties, from left to right. The PVV also indicated that this really is a concern she shares. I actually want the Minister of Housing to take this seriously at this time, in which so many people have these problems, and to do something about it. Then I do not get along very well with a schedule of 'then we are going to talk about it', 'then we will have a general discussion', 'there will be another study' and'maybe at some point there will be an evaluation'. I want something to change sometime. We're halfway through the reign. Maybe we've already gotten over that, because if you perfect the maximum reign, you're now halfway through. There's a housing shortage and something really needs to be done about it. So I really do not think there is enough work to be done on this. I didn't make those amendments for nothing. That has been considered and I have also indicated that I am quite willing to adapt them, because you can always discuss deadlines: do you have to freeze the rent on the basis of the last five years or do you have to do it for three years or two years? What is the maximum acceptable rent increase? Mr Koerhuis himself said that inflation plus 3% in the market is very common. Then let's put that in the law. We do the same for buyers: the law simply states that you can cancel a purchase contract for three days. You'll protect them with that. We simply have consumer protection for that. It's a fundamental right. These tenants are really outlawed. Of course, that doesn't apply to all tenants, because if it's in the rental contract, it doesn't work and it doesn't work if you have a decent landlord. But it's thousands of people who are really in a lot of trouble, ordinary families, decent people. I think we should do something for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u103	I suggest you finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u104	I think we should do something about this and I think the Minister should do something about it. I'm asking her to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u105	I like that last sentence. There is an interruption by Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yeah, my name fell. The Minister just endorsed what the VVD said, namely that housing policy is decentralised. I believe that Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party should be there, because they are left-wing lectures, in which the Labour Party sits, imposing on existing and new middle-rental housing against the backdrop of sustainability requirements. That's how you get the rent jumps. Mr Nijboer knows that very well. That's what makes these jumps of rent possible. Let Mr Nijboer be there and not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u107	I give Mr Nijboer the room for an answer. I don't want another discussion here. We basically did that in the first term. You can answer this, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u108	It's just about where you put the protection. In the social sector, we have very strict rules on points, which are also being broken; we also have debates on them. In the free sector it is completely free. I think that for a fundamental right such as living is unwise. The sale market is not entirely free either. There are also maximum standards for how much you can borrow. There's time to think, and you have to be honest about what you're offering. With the tenants in the free sector it is unregulated. That is being abused and we must do something about it. That has nothing to do with decentralised policy, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u109	I have a question on the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Nijboer. That's about rent increases in the free sector. He wants to maximize it to inflation plus 3% a year. Then my question is: does that apply to the whole free sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u110	That amendment applies to the whole free sector. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u111	Okay. I can imagine that in cities like Amsterdam and Rotterdam there are very expensive rentals, penthouses, of €5,000, €6,000 or perhaps even more per month. Does this maximized rent increase apply to those rentals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u112	Yeah, I've chosen not to take a line now, but if the PVV thinks it's ridiculous to protect this in general, I'm willing to take a line like that. I've also been looking at the market. There the three-day reflection period also applies if you buy a house of 1 million. We just have it for everyone. And what do you think is reasonable protection? So you could also say: up to a certain rent we do the inflation plus 2% and then we have an intermediate category. That's what I'm talking about. I just made a proposal. If we can make a majority or if you say that we are cutting it to €1,500 and if there is more support for that, then I would be happy to do so. That can be changed in the amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Smeulders of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a bit of a special debate, in particular the discussions with the Minister on the market test. We all want more middle rent. I think we agree on that. That is also the purpose of the law that the Minister has submitted. The minister says: let's simplify the market test for housing corporations, because that way they can easily build middle housing. We can see that the market is not doing enough right now. A number of parties then ask whether, in the context of deregulation and speed, we are making what I believe we all want to do about the market test. GroenLinks has tabled an amendment to that effect. It is also asked whether we can at least abolish this test for the middle rental homes. We have tabled an amendment to that effect, and I have put my name under Mr Ronnes's and Mrs Dik's motion, because I simply think it is important that we take care of this. The way, namely by law or AMvB, I don't care very much. I think it is remarkable that the Minister actually feels very little about this and that, if you ask anyone, she comes up with the argument: that might drive the market players away. We had just found that the market players barely build in the middle segment. That's why we come up with an adjustment. If you ask the question what could go wrong, there will be no clear answer. The only thing I think can go wrong in this case is that there will be more middle-rent homes and corporations will build more homes faster. I think that's a good idea. Hopefully there will be more homes, because the market players feel challenged to build more in that segment, because corporations can become more active in that market. So here comes a little more competition. So I just don't understand the Minister's reasoning. Is it really true that the real argument is that the Minister wants to protect the market and the market players in particular? I get that feeling a bit on the basis of the answers. We hope that is not the case. I would like to have a response to that in the second term. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is clear that we choose to live instead of profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u115	Do you have a question, Mrs Van Eijs? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mr Smeulders has his own amendment and he has now also co-signed the motion by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes. I have to conclude from that that it is not so much about the means, but above all about the purpose. The goal is to have more middle-rental housing built by housing corporations. He says: something must be done about the market test. Isn't it true that the market test is correct in assessing whether there is a fair playing field? If that's the purpose or the means of that market test, then why is the market test the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u117	In our view, the market test is the problem, because it is extremely delaying. That test is just complicated. I understand from housing corporations that even the simplified version is complicated. We have great confidence in our municipalities, in which GroenLinks and D66 also regularly sit together. In this respect, I simply cannot follow the Minister very well, because in the end it is not the case that only corporations are going to build more rental homes. That's said very, very black and white, but I'm looking for a balance. It is true that the corporations are made easy. In the end, it is up to the municipal authorities to make a choice. I am confident that the municipal authorities will make good choices about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u118	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u119	I also have a great deal of faith in the municipal authorities. On the contrary, I think that this market test ensures that these municipal authorities can make a fair assessment, because it makes sure that they make a fair assessment. I also hear Mr Smeulders say that it is slowing down. I think there are many things that cause delays, and we do not want to abolish them all. When it comes to Flora and fauna law, you will always find me at your side to make sure that that sort of thing is guaranteed, even though they may be somewhat delayed. So it seems to me to be a bit of a strange reason to say: let us abolish the test, because it results in delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u120	I think this is a wonderful comparison. Mrs Van Eijs always finds me by her side when we can protect nature together. As far as I am concerned, this should also be a little delayed, because we do not have enough nature in the Netherlands and we have to be very careful about that. Mrs Van Eijs does not agree with me when she says that we should protect project developers at the expense of housing corporations that do not have the interest in making as much profit as possible, but in building affordable homes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u121	That's what brought you to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u122	I have come to the end of my speech, but I would like to put a substantive question to the Minister. We have tabled two amendments on the market test. One amendment is very similar to the motion that has been tabled, but it proposes to regulate it not in the law but in the AMvB. I am curious to hear from the Minister, also with the legal knowledge of her officials, what is the advantage and disadvantage of one thing and another. We understand that it does not matter very much whether you regulate it in the law or by AMvB, but before we vote on the various proposals, I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u123	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions that have been asked. I have another supplementary question. I referred to the consultation round, which called for more opportunities for municipalities to make arrangements in the framework of mid-term rentals for a period of more than ten years. The minister referred to a factsheet. We've looked up this factsheet, but it's about the ten-year period. This is mentioned as an example. That's the information I received. It would be good to take a closer look at this factsheet and see if other examples of 15 or 20 years of age should be mentioned, because then we have solved the problem together. Mr. Chairman. My name is under Mr Ronnes' motion, which has already been tabled. I have another motion myself on the rental teams, because I think they can be important to strengthen the position of tenants. Not all municipalities have rental teams and not all tenants know, if a municipality does have a rental team, that they can turn to the rental team. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2018, 58% of the rulings made by the Rent Committee on rental contracts in the free sector concluded that the housing should have been covered by the rules of the social rental sector and that, as a result, the rent fell by an average of €270;]] [[Whereas tenants who pay too high a rent are not always aware of the possibility to go to the Rent Commission and there may be a fear among tenants that a corridor to the Rent Commission will not benefit the relationship with their landlord;]] [[noting that there are several municipalities which have a rental team, or other forms of advice, which draw tenants' attention to the existence of the Rent Commission and which can be assisted in the use of it in an easily accessible manner;]] [[considers that a rental team in municipalities can be an important means of strengthening the position of tenants;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities to set up a Rent Team in a regional or non-regional context;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to improve awareness of the possibility of moving to the Rent Commission, whether or not through a local Rental Team, and, if necessary, to come forward with proposals to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope to be able to stay until the end of this debate, but at about three o'clock my general consultation on the lease begins. If we are not ready, then I will leave the sitting a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u126	Let's all see that as an encouragement. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with an apology, too. I'm on the Committee for Economic Affairs and Climate. Our chairman, Isabelle Diks, has been ill for some time. That's why I offered to chair that meeting. This means that I must leave this sitting early, but we will of course continue to listen. Mr. Chairman. Then my second term. I hope that everyone realises that we are in a housing crisis, that the problems are complex and that political decisions are the basis for them. More market, more market, more market. Built too little. Too little protection for tenants. We talk a lot about solutions, but it takes an incredibly long time. Middle hire was said by the Cabinet: that is it, that is the Holy Grail. And now after two years I've been a Member of Parliament for two years now we have two minimal legislative changes to do something for it. And the lack of clarity remains. People are actually in way too expensive homes right now. A number of people here are naming the problem, but the Minister does not want to do very much for the time being. In the first term, I quoted the example of Jamal. He says the following: my neighbours live in the social rent, I live in the free sector and pay hundreds of euros more while I earn as much as my neighbours; how can this be seen as just? Ah, here comes an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u128	But without doing the whole discussion again, I'm really suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u129	That's right. Except Mrs. Beckerman's a bit of a lure after all. The person she calls who is looking for a home, can also not live in rules we make here, who has to live in a home. The legislation we are adopting today is precisely that more houses will be built. Why does Mrs Beckerman always come back to laying down rules and intervention? Why doesn't she prioritize building more houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u130	Oh, oh, oh, chairman. The example I quoted was about Jamal. Jamal has listened to the cabinets that people who live in social housing and earn too much call crooked residents. He deliberately chose not to live crookedly. He chose a home for €700, he has seen his rent sky high, €1,000, and can no longer pay it. He sees that the neighbours with the same income pay hundreds of euros less in rent. When I ask you what you are going to do about it, you say: I am not going to talk about rules here. It is a political choice that Jamal has lost a very large part of his income to an unaffordable home. The question now is: do you just want to say that this is bad or do you want to do something about it? We want to do something about it. I have put forward proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u131	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I'd like to file my motion. I have tabled two amendments. I very much hope that the Minister will go into that, because it is really necessary that we build but that we also ensure that these houses are then affordable for the people who want to live in them. After all, it is in our Constitution. My motion is about the fact that if you want to sell or liberalise a social housing unit now, tenant organisations and municipalities should be asked whether that is allowed, but this does not apply to middle-rent housing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed sale of regulated rental houses requires the views of tenant organisations and municipalities to be presented;]] [[Whereas, in view of the current housing shortage, it is undesirable to sell corporate housing without at least having been able to express their opinion by the tenants' organisation and the municipality concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the proposed sale of rental homes with a rent above the rental surcharge limit (liberalisation limit) of €720,42 and of potentially liberalised housing (rentals with a rent below €720,42 but with more than 145 rental points under the housing valuation system) to present views of tenant organisations and municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr. Chairman. This is a technical motion but it can ensure that homes that we want to retain as rental homes, as well, remain so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr. Chairman. This debate and also the measures we are discussing are more a step towards the much needed more middle rent. D66 is looking for balance, precisely because we both need housing corporations and private parties to build more affordable middle rentals faster. But I don't want to protect one party or the other. I just got put on something about that, but I want a balance and a fair playing field. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Mid-Term Rental Act includes a 0% project-based return requirement for housing corporations;]] [[noting that figures from the CBS show that 71% of rental houses have been built by market participants in the last two years;]] [[Whereas it is important that both housing corporations and market players can contribute to increasing supply in the middle segment;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that housing corporations and market players operate on a level playing field in order to achieve mid-term rental,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u136	I am a little surprised at this motion, because if I understand the motion correctly, you say that there is no level playing field between housing corporations and market players. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u137	I say, "to bail." I don't think the playing field is fair right now. We've noticed that housing corporations aren't getting enough work done. That is why there is now a simplification of the market test. We have also proposed a number of other measures, which I will not list all of them. We believe that all this will create a fairer playing field, but I also hear a lot of other measures being suggested here. I think it is very important to keep it in balance, to ensure that both market players and housing corporations have a fair chance on that playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u138	Finally, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u139	Can I understand, then, Mrs Van Eijs, that this motion is a response to Mr Ronnes's motion, Mrs Dik and myself? If that motion is adopted, should this motion also be adopted so that the balance remains the same? What do you expect from the Minister when your motion is passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u140	We're expecting what we've been asking for before. I heard Mr Smeulders say several times in his speech that we should above all not protect the market players, but that the housing corporations should build above all. Well, I disagree. I believe that both sides should build and that both sides should therefore be given a fair chance. That's what happens when they get a chance on a fair playing field. If the Minister can ensure that the test is organised in such a way that it is as efficient as possible and ensures a fair playing field, then I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u142	I really don't understand why people look so hard right now, but okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that regulations on restructuring and mixed buildings prove complex for interested parties;]] [[Whereas mixed neighbourhoods and buildings are important for the quality of life of towns and villages;]] [[Whereas the Authority plays a crucial role as a regulator in the efforts of housing corporations and municipalities in mixed complexes and restructurings;]] [[calls on the Government to address any obstacles to enforcement practice by the Authority housing corporations for the creation of mixed neighbourhoods and buildings and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35036-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u143	I see that all the spokesmen are moving slowly to their seats and I am giving the floor to the Minister for the answer and appreciation of the amendments and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr President, certainly! Thank you for your patience too, because this debate is coming to an end, but it is an important subject. Meanwhile, a number of spokesmen, of course, have been forced to move elsewhere. So I will try to do it quickly, but there are a lot of motions and amendments and one more question, which I will deal with first. First of all, Mrs Dik-Faber's question to look again at the factsheet of the VNG, in order to clarify further the possibilities of recording middle rents for more than ten years, fifteen years, twenty years. I'd be happy to tell her. I'll do that with the VNG. In my opinion, it was a clear factsheet. She's telling me it's even better, so that's what I'm gonna do. Then there is the question by Mr Nijboer, who, of course, has also laid down some things about it, in general terms, about the increase in rents in the free sector. He sketches an image that can actually do so indefinitely in all cases. That's not true. He also nuanced that himself, because we have happily rented contracts in the Netherlands. In the vast majority and also in all the model agreements that are before it, there is a standard clause that looks at that indexation: inflation plus a certain percentage. There are also contracts in which there is no possibility of a rent increase. Then it is not possible; then a new contract must be agreed. The tenant can indeed have the reasonableness checked by going to court. The starting point is therefore that the tenant is protected. So I am also concerned about what Mr Nijboer is concerned about. I'd like to deal with that, too. I will come to the appreciation of his proposal later. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motions. The first motion is the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Koerhuis. He also suggested that I had not gone into this point in my first term. I did, but it went pretty fast, so I don't blame him for missing that for a second. Just a brief word on this motion. If it is a cover between 40% and 50%, then a test should already be performed. So I don't think it's necessary to tighten that standard even further. Also with 50% coverage there is twice as much collateral against the secured debt. I would like to talk to WSW about this, but I do not think that the tightening up proposed by Mr Koerhuis is necessary. That's why I'm dissuading his motion. The second motion is the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Ronnes. It calls for companies to be encouraged to use available funds explicitly for middle-rent housing in the free sector. I have just said that I also make agreements with municipalities in scarcity areas in the housing deals. Then it is appropriate that the housing corporations also become more active in the middle hire. With this explanation, in which the local choice does play a role, I can get out of my way with the motion and I could leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u145	That therefore concerns the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u146	Yeah, excuse me. The motion in part No. 18 Mr Ronnes asks the government to investigate whether corporations invest more in rental homes with a rent between €700 and €1,000 if we differentiate the SGEI limits. The first step is to look at the differentiation of SGEI limits within the household composition. I made an announcement about this in the letter of 22 February, which we will discuss in April. In that letter, I also announced an exploration of the regionalisation of the SGEI borders. I can therefore imagine that Mr Ronnes would like to continue the motion pending what has already been announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u147	I'm willing to do that, so I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u148	At the request of Mr Ronnes, I propose his motion (35036, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u149	Thank you very much. The motion in part No. 19 by Mr Ronnes and Mrs Dik-Faber on the market test. As it says here, it is different from the legislative amendment I propose. We have just discussed this in detail. I have argued that I think it is wise to opt for this simplification first. I think you should always think. So I would be willing to say that, while we are taking this step, we need to evaluate it properly or explore the possibilities here to work without a test in the future. But that is something other than skipping this step, which I now read in the motion. So the motion in this form I must advise against. I would just like to inform the authors that there may also be other ways of making an agreement on this. The motion in part No. 21 by Mrs Dik-Faber sees on the Rent Committee...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u150	Let me repeat for a moment that the motion in part No. Mr Ronnes, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Smeulders were dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u151	Yes. The motion in part No. 21 by Mrs Dik-Faber is, I think, well in line with what I have just outlined about the role of the rental teams. I would actually like to take over the motion, but Mrs Dik-Faber is not here. I don't know if that's possible, but that would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u152	I suggest that we have the motion put to the vote. I understand that judgment will then be left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u153	Then I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mrs Beckerman has 22 views on the free sector and the sale of free sector housing. I'm going to summarize it very briefly now. Mrs. Beckerman wouldn't blame me if she were here. Nor will she be surprised that I am deceiving the motion, because this is actually an extension of the regulated segment. I don't think this is contributing to the goal we have. I would also like to point out that performance agreements are also being reached among themselves and that I do not think that the motion is therefore necessary either. But I'm gonna tell her off. The Van Eijs motion in part No. 23 looks forward to ensuring that housing corporations and market players have a level playing field to realize middle rental. In short, that is what the proposal I have put forward is really about. For that reason, I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 24 is also a motion by Mrs Van Eijs. I would like to inform her that the authority is, of course, independent. So I am very vigilant about entering into the enforcement practice of the Aw. I think the goal, namely the viability of the mixed neighbourhoods, is very important. This is also mentioned in the review of the Housing Act, and I made a number of announcements on this in the letter of 22 February. I would therefore suggest to Mrs Van Eijs that we hold her motion until we have been able to discuss it in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mrs Van Eijs confirms that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u155	I also see an interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u156	I have another question about the Van Eijs motion on item No. 23. The Minister points out that what this proposal is about is actually in line with what we are already doing. The motion would seem superfluous to me, but the Minister is giving the "judge chamber" motion. I would like to know from the Minister how she is going to carry out the motion, because I am very much wondering about such a general motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u157	I just said that the motion is in line with the aim of the bill, which is to ensure that housing companies and market players can operate on a level playing field so that they can help achieve both middle-rent. I do a number of things for that. I read the motion in such a way that the Chamber underlines once again that this is the purpose of what we are doing with this bill and that the Chamber is asking me to report on it at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u158	It is a pity that in the first term I missed the piece on tightening collateral rules for investors. Well, I guess I'll have to come back to it now. The Minister himself writes in the reply in the written input that 40% is used in practice. I don't understand why we can't make a rule out of that. I understand from the Minister that there is also a test between 40 and 50. We want to make it easier, so let's just put that rule to 40. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u159	I would like to go into this in detail another time, or in writing. But I just answered the question. I think the current practice is working well. I don't want to tighten it and not weaken it. It is a good practice and I would like to propose that it be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u160	Perhaps this will come back to another debate. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u161	I think I've had the motions all by then. I shall now come to the amendments. I'll handle it in the order in which they were filed. The first amendment is that of Mr Koerhuis and Mr Ronner on the taxation of property taxes. There is no transfer pricing charge or any obstacle in the way it works now. I do not think that the amendment achieves the objective set by the proposers. If there would be a ban on the modification of the land lease canon, municipalities are not expected to grant any more permission for a change of destination and the aim of removing obstacles to the realisation of middle-rent housing is, of course, not achieved. There are other arguments to make, but I do not think we should do so, and I therefore advise against the amendment. There is no question of an additional tax on leases, because a higher tax on leases is, of course, also subject to higher rents. I have the impression that the proposers do not consider them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u162	We're not going to do the whole debate again. You may ask one question, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u163	I have a lot of questions in my head. I did not hear the Minister comment on this in the first term. The amendment is quite simply discouraged. There is indeed a debt tax in Amsterdam. It's already up to $40,000. Amsterdam shields it from going up to two tons. I would ask the Minister to go there again. There is a real tax on rent, and everyone knows that if two tons of tax is levied on a middle-rent house, the middle-rent price goes up, or a corporation simply doesn't. So that's my question back to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u164	On this point, too, I think that Mr Koerhuis would really like to have a whole debate. I'd always like to be willing to do that. He has chosen to table this in the form of an amendment. My argument is that against a higher rent canon in a middle-rental house there is also that higher rent return. Mr Koerhuis weighs that differently. I really doubt whether the objective he is aiming for by that amendment would be achieved. I actually think the opposite would happen. It seems that we differ on this, but I remain firm in my assessment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u165	Please continue. So the amendment in part No. 11 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u166	Mr President, I am confident that you have the right numbers for you, because I am not sure I have them. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mr Nijboer's amendments. They're about the rent increases. There's two of them. I just said something about that group. I was just saying, I have no doubt those people are here. It's hard to tell how many people they are. Actually, we don't know exactly. That is also a good reason for doing better research. Mr Nijboer is looking for ways to protect the tenant with a middle income. I agree with him, but I think he's going very far. I have just referred to the impact of the emergency button to tackle excesses, because I think we are talking about excesses in the housing market. And I want to distinguish between ordinary, decent landlords and speculators. I would also like to look at a regional distinction, because there are major regional differences. Mr Nijboer does not really make that distinction. I fear that his amendment would violate existing leases in order to achieve the goal of a freezing of rents. Then the government will really interfere in private law agreements between the tenant and the landlord in the entire free sector, while I do not think the problem exists in the entire free sector. I am very specific about these excesses; we want to tackle them. So I must dissuade those amendments, because I think that they go too far and infringe too much on the freedom of contract and the right to property, and because I also think that they would be very difficult to implement in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u167	So both the amendment in part No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u168	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u169	You too: just one question, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u170	Yes, Mr. Chairman. There's been some disappointment about me. I think the Minister makes it very small by saying that it is excesses, that it is regional and probably only plays in new construction; 'we make an emergency button', very precise. I do not think that is right for the people who have problems with this. It is very wide in Amsterdam on Java Island. The Minister knows that well. It happens in Zeist, it happens in Leiden, it happens in a lot of places. You could also make a kind of three-quarters mandatory right, which you say we will lay down by law, and if you really agree with each other that you want 20% increase in rents, any individual who would like to do so would still be able to do so. So you can look for ways to do something generic about it and I think that there are really a lot of people getting into trouble right now. Those really aren't a few individual excesses. This is happening on a large scale, and the Minister does not want to do anything about it, whereas these amendments would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I'm hearing one last plea. Madam Secretary, the final answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u172	Thank you for that. In any case, we agree that these excesses occur and that we also want to tackle these excesses. I also agree with Mr Nijboer on this. Where we have not yet found each other is on how to deal with precisely those cases with a little more precision, without using a generic instrument, which, in my view, goes rather far and is not necessary. We are certainly going to talk about this when it comes to drawing up the emergency button. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Nijboer had also tabled an amendment on transfer tax. He said, I thought, something about forging the iron while it's hot. That was the case two weeks ago. At that time the iron was really hot, and we discussed this in a 30-member debate. A motion was then adopted by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes on exploring the differentiation of transfer tax. I undertook, of course, to work on this together with the Secretary of State for Finance. So I hope that Mr Nijboer will give the cabinet the chance to do that reconnaissance. But he still wants to table this amendment. He could have waited a while, but if he continues to do so, I must also advise against the amendment because of the timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u173	So the amendment in part No. 20 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u174	As part of his amendments, Mr Smeulders has asked what the legal, legal and legal aspects of the market test are in a law and what is in a general measure of governance. In practice, that does not really matter very much. This is important from a legal point of view. The law now states that the market test takes place and that the effect is contained in the general measure of governance. It therefore states what the market test must comply with. That is therefore legal technique and not so much implementation practice. I have three amendments to this effect. Two amendments are by Mr Smeulders. He chooses two different approaches to the market test. The first amendment would delete the market test and the second amendment says something about a limit of €1,000. I am not going to repeat my whole argument of just now, because in both cases I am afraid that we are losing the balance and not achieving the goal of achieving more middle-rent housing. That is why I cannot support both amendments and I must advise against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u175	The amendments to item No. 14 and item No. 15 are also dissuaded. Mr. Smeulders, just one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u176	My question is not about content, because we have talked about it long enough. I have a question following the Minister's reaction to a motion in an AMvB or an amendment in the law. In fact, you indicate that it does not matter whether the amendment or the motion is adopted, because implementation means the same thing, namely that housing between €700 and €1,000 will not now be covered by the market test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u177	But then I'm not sure we understood each other correctly, because I'm talking about the law as I suggested it, the amended law. Because the law is as it is now. Of course, it will have to be adapted. Mr. Chairman. I have two further amendments, both by Mrs Beckerman. The first is about increasing the liberalization limit. I fear that this amendment will only lead to fewer offers, not more offers. I have also said a number of things about this in the first period. I'm also referring to the emergency button. But I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u178	The amendment in part No. 10 is also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u179	Mrs Beckerman's next amendment concerns the extension of the SGEI income limit. I have just said something about this, also in the direction of Mr Ronnes. I do intend to look at the income line in the social rental sector and see if we can better organise it and take more account of families, for example, but I am not in favour of a generic increase in the income line. That's why I think I should discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u180	You mean the amendment. The amendment in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u181	Excuse me, amendment. Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u182	This brings you to the end of your second term? Thank you very much. This also brings us to the end of this debate on the Mid-term Rental Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-6.u183	I thank the Minister, I thank the spokesmen, the support staff and the listeners. The motions and amendments will be voted on next Tuesday.
