ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the budget for Kingdom relations, Section 35300-IV. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. Today we are discussing the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u2	I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Last year I mentioned the three other countries in our Kingdom and the special municipalities the favourite problem of this government. And that goes not only for the government; it also applies to most parties here in the Lower House. Pumping and solving decades of money and problems, and trying to solve them, have led to the correct maintenance of many problems, such as corruption, non-compliance with agreements, financial maladministration, drug-related misery and insecurity. We are not yet talking about the issue of migration, which, through Venezuela, could possibly erupt even further. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, Sint-Maarten is experiencing a political crisis where they can still suck a bit here at The Hague City Hall. At the moment, Aruba seems unable, or refuses, to deal with the financial misery that holds the country in an iron grip. No, it is more important for the prime minister in Aruba to remove an elected member of state from parliament of any colour. That's what the Prime Minister wants. It is a state-law news item in the Kingdom of the Netherlands. On Curaçao the business as usual, including broken, non-working or simply non-usable drug scanner, with all the risks involved. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to some of these findings. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the special congregations. The board on Sint-Eustatius was taken over by the Netherlands more than a year and a half ago. How does the Secretary of State see the developments there at the moment? Elections were promised after two years. Are they gonna come? And after that, maybe the problems will come back just as hard? Isn't it? I would also like to hear the Secretary of State's view on the future. Dan Bonaire. The board agreement is in effect. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on the coming months. From what agreements with the island council does the Secretary of State trust? According to the island council, how hard are the arrangements that have been made? Does it turn out to be just sanitary value, or does the Secretary of State really think it's going to end up? And when is the moment when we might intervene on Bonaire, just like we did on Statia? Does the Secretary of State have that in mind? Then, chairman, back to Saint Martin, the country that is synonymous with chaos and corruption. The Secretary of State has previously promised to discuss with the World Bank how Dutch companies can take priority in the procurement of the reconstruction funds. That is Dutch money, and we of the PVV believe that the Netherlands should benefit from it in return. At least the Secretary of State, as we read in letters, has made an effort. There is a great deal of information going to companies, including companies that are not yet fully aware of how international procurement is going. That's good, that's good, but we want more. We really want much more priority for Dutch companies. What is the state of play now? What percentage of the money tendered and of the projects tendered has now been tendered in the Netherlands? What percentage has arrived in the Netherlands? And here I come to one sentence from the letter of 8 October: 'In addition, the importance of encouraging the deployment of companies from the Kingdom is included in the strategic framework used by the World Bank and the steering committee of the trust fund as a driving force in the use of the reconstruction funds'. Can the Secretary of State properly explain that word "controller" and also the context to the Chamber? 'Cause after a couple of re-readings, I'm not really coming out either. At this point I would like to get an update, because we want these tenders to come to the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has always been clear and clear about the former Antilles. In the last debate on our relations within the Kingdom, I have put it more romantically. It was then about the dispute settlement. I compared the beautiful sides of the other three countries with the character of my daughters. But the most important thing about that equation was in the tail back then. Kids grow up and leave the house. In this way, Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin should also leave the Kingdom's house. And if they refuse, we'll have to leave the Kingdom ourselves. We've given enough attention, love and commitment, which should be enough ground to stop fighting in the future. Finally, Mr President. I look forward to the speech of the next speaker, Mr Bosman of the VVD, who is about to put the Antilles on the market in a state-law manner. Is that so, I'm asking him. I would almost call out: finally a supporter! But for us it is important to listen very carefully if Mr Bosman is going to deliver butter to the fish. In any case, the idea of lifting the Statute sounds good. However, for our part, the question is also for the Secretary of State, who is also going to receive all kinds of questions from Mr Bosman, which is Mr Bosman's reflection on what is going to happen to the islands under state law. There's a lot of interest in that. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u4	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u5	It is always good to listen to me, I would like to say to Mr De Graaf. Mr. Chairman. Today is October 8, 2019. In two days it will be 10-10-2019, exactly nine years after signing the new Statute and entering a new period of the Kingdom. What have these last nine years brought us and the Kingdom and, above all, what has brought the people to the islands? That's worth a look back, I'd say. With regard to the developments on Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius, I would like to point out that this cabinet is taking serious steps to improve the position of the inhabitants of the islands. Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment Tamara van Ark has taken concrete steps to achieve a social minimum. This is an important part of achieving a better income position for the people on the islands of Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius. An important part of the social minimum is the cost of living. It is very easy to increase income without looking at the cost side. The Chamber has recently held a written consultation with the entire cabinet on the various developments in the islands of Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius. The answers are not yet entirely encouraging and the Court has announced follow-up questions. The cost side of the problem certainly needs to be addressed. An island with 1,500 inhabitants cannot invest in a cost-effective energy supply. Internet for a small community is always expensive. Connections between islands with small volumes makes flying precious. So we're definitely gonna ask about that. The local government on Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius can and should also do much more themselves. I would like to quote my long-standing plea for agriculture. Also for the self-importing of food, apart from the fixed import lines and the fixed players on the ground, I have argued more often. Both of you are going to get a careful start now. On agriculture in Bonaire, I still keep asking where the million a year went, because there has been no spa going down for that million a year. That cannot be true, because agriculture provides healthy food at lower prices. At the same time, it provides employment, which is important to re-establish an income that will enable people to re-create their lives. The circle is almost complete with that. The concern about poverty among the elderly is a concern shared by the VVD. It is therefore important to reduce the cost of living for that group. Their earning capacity is very limited, or you should look again at subsidising the revenue side. Certainly cheaper food produced on the island itself is essential, in addition to reducing the cost of living, electricity and the Internet, to name but a few fixed costs. But infrastructure, the roads, too, is something that can and must be tackled more vigorously. That is in the area of the colleague of Infrastructure and Water State, I understand. I will certainly raise this with her in the written round. I think we should report it now, because it is matters that are agreed within the Kingdom. Actually, it was a zero reading. If you look at 10-10-2010, the zero measurement of where infrastructure is present and where we're going to come from has never really happened well. We never really got out of there. The board on Bonaire may be a little more critical anyway, I say to the Secretary of State. I understand that the public body has purchased new cars and that some have also been bought in the diesel version. That's not how many miles there are going to be made on the island, I ask the Secretary of State. Why wasn't electric transport chosen? It's limited distances and there's a lot of sunshine so you can charge with solar energy. Maybe I'm completely wrong, but I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. The free distribution of the islands has not kept pace with the island's expenditure and responsibilities. The islands are now making ends meet with occasional windfalls. That could never have been the intention. This deficiency is also clearly reflected in the opinion of the Council of State. How will the Secretary of State deal with this? The information provided by the Council of State also clearly shows that all islands are different. You won't be surprised, because I've said that before. BES doesn't exist. They are the islands of Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius. I am glad that this is now being implemented administratively. I also hope that this will be taken up by the administration, because the less interference from The Hague, the better. But strengthen the local authorities to actually fulfil their own administrative tasks. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to anticipate all the other problems that remain, because the Secretary of State has indicated that we are going to talk about them seriously, because the opinion has just been drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u6	Last year, I proposed that the National Representative should be lifted and that Saba should be treated as Saba, Statia as Statia and Bonaire as Bonaire. I can see that coming back to me now in the Council of State's opinion. I'm very happy about that. Does Mr Bosman agree, on behalf of the VVD, that the national representative can at least be removed in the long term, if not soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u7	Yes, but there was an addition to that, namely that there should be some kind of sounding board to discuss with each other what is the wisest way of not putting such an authority on the Minister's plate and vice versa. I am therefore very curious to see what this structure will be like and what exactly the role will be. Because this sounds a bit like the National Representative without the role of the National Representative. I'm kind of looking at how that goes. But I totally agree that we need to get it right. There shouldn't be too many layers. On the other hand, local government must be able to do what it has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u8	I have a follow-up question on that. Mr Bosman was there when we had a Saba Summit on our initiative in January 2015. It has been agreed that Saba would do more herself, for example in the area of work permits. Every year, the House of Representatives has said that Saba should be able to grant work permits herself. In fact, the Chamber has been so angry that it has invited three State Secretarys to hold a separate discussion on the work permits on Saba. To my great regret and sorrow we are almost five years later and this is not settled. Does Mr Bosman agree with me that this is not a way of doing things and that we will face the people of Saba in our shirt if we in the House of Representatives have to fight for five years to get Saba to give work permits and we simply cannot do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u9	I share the disappointment of Mr Van Raak. We had a good talk about this, including the officials who were working on it anyway. Then you end up in the Dutch forest of regulations and legal matters. It's legalized. I'm looking for a pilot, a simple solution to the discussion we're having right now. Bruce Zagers has been visiting. He says we're busy building. The harbor is being built. Houses are being built. Hotels are being built and the only problem is: construction workers. Construction workers! We can't get them in and we can't take them. So I share that concern. Can't there be a pilot for this kind of obvious business? If there are no people present on an island like Saba for this, we are actually helping to destroy economic development there, because Saba is not able to get those people in. Maybe we should look for that in the written round.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u10	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u11	The Statute is also the relationship between the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. With the adaptation of 10-10-10, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten have also become an autonomous country alongside Aruba. Looking back at the last nine years, I can only conclude that the Statute is not working. It beeps, it creaks and it rubs inside the Kingdom, because no one has any idea who's responsible for what. It's the cafeteria statute: when it suits you, you're out of it, but when it's difficult, you all dive. Yeah, we'll all dive, including me. Together with Mr Van Raak of the SP, I have been working for a long time to achieve a workable Statute. Together with Mr Van Raak, I have written an initiative paper aimed at achieving a commonest of independent countries within the Kingdom. We wanted to put it down as a discussion document, so that other countries and parties would come up with their ideas. It remained frightfully silent on the other side of the ocean. In the letter from the Secretary of State on the implementation of the Van Raak cum suis motion, the Secretary of State writes: "As the motion itself expressly acknowledges, this also requires support from the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. In order to establish this support, I have written to the Prime Ministers of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten asking them to form a joint working group in which, at official level, the bottlenecks on the subject can be identified and a process set up. After meeting the reactions of the Prime Ministers of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten, I will inform you about the follow-up." Mr. Chairman. I'll put a good bottle of wine on that there's not gonna be a joint working group. Another bottle of wine that this working group isn't gonna get together. I'll put a dinner on top of it with the statement that no trial will be arranged. And not because I believe this Secretary of State can't do it if anyone can, he is, but this is how it is going within the Kingdom. Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin do not need an adaptation of the Statute at all. There would be agreements about who is responsible for what. Then, as Aruban Prime Minister, you can no longer blame the Netherlands for not being able to deal with corruption. I quote the Prime Minister of Aruba: "Aruba has ambitious policy intentions in terms of integrity. However, implementation of the plans is delayed due to pressure from the Netherlands to reduce public expenditure, in particular personnel costs." Then you didn't understand. The problem of staff costs is precisely the basis of all these problems. Nepotism and nepotism lead drivers to think they should give benefits to all those friends and acquaintances. Apparently, that doesn't want to get in the way of administrative Aruba. On St.Maarten, the ninth cabinet will be held within ten years. Why does a cabinet fall? Because the new majority doesn't want pranksters from the Netherlands. Almost 500 million will soon be spent on the island. People want to take a piece of that personally. In particular, no supervision of the construction of an aircraft terminal. Especially not the expertise and governance of Schiphol, not a small player in this area, but simply take care of it all by yourself. Then the new roof of the terminal costs $1,500 per square meter. For that square meter price, you can build a house. Not just a house, a spacious house. Someone gets rich, but it's at the expense of the locals. And elected representatives, though: representatives? Oh, let it happen. There is nothing you can do about it as the Netherlands or as the Kingdom. Fortunately, success has been achieved with the Team Combat Undermining, again an initiative by colleague Van Raak and myself to create additional detective capacity to tackle the undermining crime. Drivers on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten have been much more busy since the arrival of the TBO for a good and humane prison care. They could just disappear into it by themselves. Next year the program will end. If there is any prospect of extending this successful project, I ask the Secretary of State. The opposition and administrative unwillingness on the islands are often still too great. The financial interests on a small island are often very large. It's very difficult to resist the pressure on a small island. The VVD also understands that. But this is not an option for the VVD anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u12	I went to this debate with great anticipation. I thought Mr. Bosman had a stone with him. 'Cause in the paper, he announced he'd throw a rock in the pond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u14	What else did you say? At least that's what they say. You are done with the agreements between the Netherlands, Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten and the Statute can be put in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u16	When it comes to consistent points of view, I have to admit one thing to Mr Bosman: in the ten years that he has been committed to this portfolio and in the one year that I have seen him in it, I have seen him very consistently on this point. But Mr Bosman ended with the quote: "I want to do this, but such a conversation never comes off the ground. We've seen it before, but it's not gonna work out." So then I think to myself, with all due respect: do you call this again to call it? You know we're stuck with the statute. Are you taking warships to the islands? What is the real perspective you have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u17	Colleague Van Dam is just too early. I'm just getting started. Here comes the story of the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u18	Well, I suggest you wait for the sequel, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u19	I'm waiting for the stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u20	It's about to be thrown, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u21	I have seven minutes left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u22	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u23	Mr. Chairman. The VVD therefore believes that much more rigorous steps are needed to make the Kingdom a workable whole. There must be a deadline and the Netherlands must simply state that in failing to reach a deadline, the Netherlands will leave the Statute and we will no longer be bound by the provisions of the Statute, thereby de facto creating a Commonwealth of Independent Countries. Only when there's pressure will there be movement. And now it's time. From my various questions and answers from the cabinet it appears that we are no longer in a decolonisation period, but that we are now in a kingdom. And that was a question I had asked before. Are we still covered by Article 73 of the UN Charter? So it's not anymore. That is good to know, but that also has consequences for all countries. That is why an amendment to the Staff Regulations is now essential. If there is no longer any question of decolonisation and therefore we are in a post-colonial phase, it is time to actually achieve equivalence within the Kingdom. Because what I still don't understand is that the former colonies, once they have chosen their status, have been decolonized but retain the right to withdraw. On what basis do they then have the right to retire when we talk about the post-colonial era, I ask the Secretary of State. In his reply, the Secretary of State writes that this is about unwritten Kingdom law. Is the law of the Kingdom everlasting and, if so, why? In the case of recognition by the partners within the Kingdom of the right to unilaterally withdraw, when can the Netherlands then count on that recognition? How do we, as the Netherlands, get the recognition to retire? For retirement from the Kingdom has nothing to do with colonialism anymore, so it is about mutual recognition. The Dutch authorities also contribute to the confusion with regard to the Kingdom. In the written answer to my questions, the Secretary of State states that the contribution of the Written Statement was made by the Dutch Government. And that's special because the International Criminal Court doesn't know the Netherlands at all. In fact, the title used is: "International Court of Justice, Legal Consequences of the Separation of the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius in 1965, written statement of the kingdom of the Netherlands." So not the Netherlands but "the kingdom." The Kingdom shall be asked for written advice. Then it is very special that, in the case of decolonization, the countries within the Kingdom are not asked for their opinion. Suddenly the Kingdom is gone and it is about the Dutch government. When the European Court of Human Rights addresses the Netherlands about abuses on St.Maarten and Curaçao with "the Netherlands" we quickly point to the Kingdom and we are not of them. The latter is also justified, but it reflects the total schizophrenia of this Kingdom in the Statute on which it is based. For what is the kingdom now? Who is the government of the Kingdom now? There is also a very comprehensive answer to this because there is no clear answer to be given. At the heart of the answer is that the countries of the Kingdom are involved in the decision-making that affects the countries. This happens in the National Council of Ministers but is done by an official of the country of Aruba, Curaçao or Sint-Maarten. They are representatives of the National Council of Ministers on behalf of the country. But what are the issues that affect the countries, I ask the Secretary of State. Can I assume that when we talk about defence, it is about an interest that affects the countries? It is also about their safety. But also the economic importance of the Netherlands affects the interests of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, because economic growth in the Netherlands helps the countries. I would even say that Dutch monetary policy affects the interests of the countries, because if interest rates in the Netherlands increase, the countries will pay more interest on their loans. Of course, I do not know what is being discussed in the National Council of Ministers, but I dare say that if the countries are not specifically appointed on the agenda of the National Council of Ministers there is no question of the importance for the Kingdom. And that, of course, is a very special figure. The Kingdom always exists and the interests within the Kingdom are shared interests. Then why is there no permanent administration with permanent occupation? I'd like an explanation from the secretary of state. For if the Kingdom always exists, then the Kingdom Government must change its composition. Then there can no longer be a representative of one of the countries. This is also in line with the statement given by the Netherlands itself: "if States are not guiding themselves in compliance with the principle of equal rights and self-determination of people and thus possessed of a government representing the whole people belonging to the territory without distinction as to race, creed or colour." So the government of the Kingdom must take a completely different form. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Mr. Chairman. If we do not get any clarity about who is responsible for what and if we continue in this cafeteria statute, then it is time for the VVD to take clear steps: then it is time to throw the Statute in the trash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u24	I am very curious about the implementation of my motion. They asked to see if countries were prepared to talk about a new division of responsibilities. I do not dare to wager with Mr Bosman because that will cost me two bottles of wine. He wants good bottles of wine, and I'm just a simple socialist. But doesn't this discussion begin with the fact that the Netherlands also has a view or vision of the Kingdom in that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u25	That is the beauty of the discussion we have had, also in writing. We are now in a post-colonial era. In fact, we are all no longer committed to the colonial matters covered by Article 73. Now is the time to say what we want from the Netherlands as well. That's why I say as a VVD guy: "Oh, boy, if it doesn't work, we'll stop." Then you can find out what you want, but then we'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u26	I've been in the Chamber with this for a long time. In the past, as a Chamber, we have asked the government for a vision. That was under Donner. Then we got a Donnerian report, so there was nothing in it. If Mr Bosman means it, and I wholeheartedly agree with him that times have changed and that the Kingdom has failed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u27	The statute, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u28	The statute has failed. Then I think it would be a good idea to start by asking the Dutch Government for a vision of the Kingdom and of the distribution of responsibilities. Such a piece would, in my view, be a very good starting point for discussion with the other countries. They are then forced to write a reaction to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u29	I believe that the motion calls for a joint redistribution of responsibilities. I think it is important that we, the Netherlands, should also indicate where it squeaks and sands. We in the Netherlands must state: boys, listen, within this Statute we have difficulty with this, a problem with that and a problem with that, but we see opportunities for this and this. I think that's a fine kind of starting note in which you can say: "Oh, this is what we think; what do you think? Well, let's see if we can get together. And maybe that'll cost me two bottles of wine and dinner!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u30	You guys keep agreeing, I see! Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u31	Well, we're coming up with a whole end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u32	Mr. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u33	Say "The Count."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u34	Sorry, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u35	It's okay, Mr. Chairman. It's Tuesday afternoon again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u36	It is Mrs Ván der Graaf, but Mr Dé Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u37	Thank you to Mr Bosman for his speech. It is not even a schizophrenic situation, but perhaps a quadrofren situation or an oligophrenic situation! There are so many actors, so many legal writings, so many statutes and you name it. I think it has become very clear to many people how difficult the situation is, because of Mr Bosman's speech. So thank you for that. But then comes the next step. "Removing the Statute," says Mr Bosman. So the statute is no longer there. Then what is the next step for Mr Bosman, apart from the two bottles of wine and dinner, and talking about a vision? What will be the next step in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u38	I wrote that down. In my opinion, we still have the Kingdom, but no more statute. That means you have four independent countries within the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u39	Okay, well, that makes it a little clearer than before. So you have four independent countries within the Kingdom. Is that the commonwealth Mr Bosman mentioned earlier in his own initiative paper? Then what happens to the three special congregations we have in the Kingdom? In my own contribution, I have said that it is a bit like the Marketplace option that we have mentioned ourselves in the past. That was, like, 10, 11 years ago. I want butter with the fish, but I understand now that the Kingdom simply continues to exist. That means that the internal and mutual problems will continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u40	No, because the great thing is that when you're independent, you're responsible for your own problems. If you want to work together, you do it on the basis of equivalence, where you can ask for help, but wherever you can say, "Yeah, the way you arranged it, I'm not gonna do it." We now have the Statute with a guarantee function; the countries are independently responsible for ensuring good governance. But that is also guaranteed by the Kingdom through Article 43 (2). This creates a responsibility for matters that the VVD wants to say: wait, as you do, we do not want to. It is important that you make that clear when there are four independent countries within the Kingdom. Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius are part of the Netherlands. If they want to make other choices, it is up to them, but I am specifically concerned about the four countries within the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u41	Mr De Graaf, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u42	I have a short practical question at the end, because we would indeed be brief. This week, in part two of this debate, will we have a motion by Mr Bosman on Thursday morning, in which it is indeed stated that the Statute should be lifted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u43	It's possible. I'm gonna go check it out. Of course, we always give some room to the Secretary of State for a moment. I think that is a good thing, rather than saying directly that we are going to table a motion. So I'm gonna listen to the Secretary of State first. But I can imagine the government finding it harder to just put that down. Yeah, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u44	I'm getting my second term anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u45	That stone you asked for, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u46	Yeah, I was looking for that rock. I must say that the best way to qualify this stone is to warn Mr Van Raak as an old wine in new bags. I would like to ask Mr Bosman a question. You know I'm fundamentally opposed to it. I see the Kingdom Associations as family bonds, and you don't get rid of your family on a Tuesday afternoon either. I'm sure you're aware of the situation at St. Martin's. Last week the members of the Election Board quit their jobs there. I think that is a hugely democratic act. In all these islands, there are new generations who want other things. What's the story of the VVD for these people? Isn't that just abandoning people? I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u47	But that's a bit of a colonial thought. I'm past that. I think we should put people in their power. On the contrary, it is important to solve the problems on the islands and to know that there is only one responsible for solving these problems, namely the islands themselves. It's kind of like giving an alcohol addict a little alcohol every time: boy, here, you get a little bit. No, it's about who's responsible for what. You have to be clear about that at once: this is your responsibility, pick it up, do it, take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u48	If we compare our fellow Kingdomies with alcohol addicts, I'm done talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u49	It's very easy. It was an example in general terms, about the risk of you not helping people off a problem, but continuing to support it. If Mr Van Dam does not want to see that, I am very sorry. That's a missed opportunity, because it's a problem, and if you don't want to deal with it, we're gonna keep muddying and polding. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u50	I'm trying to stay calm, but the steam's about to come out of my ears. This is indeed old wine in new bags. We know Mr. Bosman's story by now. What I'm so sorry about is that you're shielding us with the phrase "we don't want to be colonial." But when I look at you and I see you standing there, I've been studying the subject of a lecture I'm supposed to give on Friday night about The White Conscience, and I think you're very colonial right now. Are you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u51	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but I find this really amazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u52	Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u53	No, this is almost a personal fact. I think it's amazing. It means that as the Netherlands you cannot say anything about the future of your own country, about the Statute, about the organisation we are in, about things that we are also responsible for. Should we sit still in the back seat and see what happens to the Netherlands, to the Kingdom, to the Statute? Should we see what happens then? Should we completely close our eyes to the problems that exist without having the courage to tackle them? I am a representative of the Netherlands. On behalf of the VVD, I'm in the Chamber and I'm in trouble. I have a responsibility to pick it up and name it and to cooperate as much as possible. But if people don't want to work together, I still have to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u54	That is perhaps the difference: that I also feel like a representative of the Caribbean Netherlands. I think you can analyse the problems with very large steps at home, because they have been analysed superficially. I just think that we can all make a depth in that. I think we are on the right track, that we have taken some good steps with this Secretary of State in recent years. I hope you agree with me that perhaps we should also give that road a chance. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u55	Mrs. Diertens does it all the time: she compares apples with pears. I did not mention the Caribbean Netherlands. I've said that four times, and maybe more. I have spoken about the countries within the Kingdom. My whole story is about the countries within the Kingdom. I have appointed this responsibility each time, where they are autonomous countries with their own responsibilities. They have been specifically appointed in the Staff Regulations. If you're talking about Caribbean Netherlands; of course I have a responsibility for that. I've identified that concern as well. I'm taking steps for that, too. If anyone's talking about agriculture, it's me. If anyone thinks the food should be cheaper, it's me. So I find it ridiculous, really ridiculous, that Mrs. Diertens dares to say this in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u56	When I heard the beginning of Mr Bosman's speech, I became a little happy. I thought, "Hey, that's really about the people who wanted to stay inside the Kingdom." That is why these relationships have been established. That was all before my time. We have a statute in which it is governed by administrative rules. I agree with you that the administrative nature of these relationships is not just sunshine. That's what I'm underlining. But the fact is that these people still need guidance and support and that they have expectations. You're abandoning them all now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u57	Then I would like to know exactly who Mrs Özütok means by "all those people."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u58	In the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u59	You're talking about the countries, about Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u61	I'm not abandoning anyone. The VVD doesn't abandon anyone. We are just saying 'and I think that's perfectly normal 'that they are countries with their own states, with elections, with a government, with a budget, with responsibilities when it comes to investing money, checking that budget, looking at where the money stays, discussing nepotism and responding to people who say 'you put the money in your own pocket'. I'm not abandoning anyone. Only, it is the responsibility of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, and not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u62	We have heard this story before: in Mr Bosman's view it is not the responsibility of the Netherlands. But these are the relationships. You can't just say, "I'll say goodbye to you and you'll look at it." That is the real situation that Mr Bosman is actually advocating here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u63	No, what Mr Bosman is advocating here is that the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin should keep to the agreements, that they should get their budgets in order. That's what I've been saying all along. That's what I've been saying all along. I said, if you don't keep your appointments, you'll have a cafeteria statute. That's what I called it. Every time we choose a little what we do and what we don't want. The point is that those responsibilities lie there. The moment everyone says, oh, but Mr. Bosman wants to push them out of the statute... No, then Mrs Özütok assumes that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin will never keep the agreement. It's possible. But according to Mrs Özütok, that certainly does not mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u64	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u65	Mr. Chairman. While the reconstruction after Hurricane Irma is still in full swing, a cabinet has fallen for the ninth time in ten years on Saint-Maarten. Aruba and Curaçao have difficulty keeping financial management in order and struggling with a refugee problem. The Red Cross speaks of a refugee crisis, but according to what the Secretary of State says to me, there seems to be nothing wrong. Refugees are even handcuffed and locked up in Curaçao among convicted criminals. This is not compatible with our human rights standards. In the Netherlands we offer bed, bath and bread and humane shelter. The Red Cross wants more help for Venezuelan refugees. We also need to take care of people in need. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. However, we must not forget what is going well. St. Eustatius can hold free elections next year. Thank you to the Secretary of State and the other directors for their commitment. Let us hope that it will be transparent, integrity and decisive governance. In the end, that must be our goal for all Caribbean islands in our Kingdom of the Netherlands. The current Kingdom relations raise the question of whether everyone counts equally. I found it an honour and pleasure to welcome our overseas parliamentary colleagues and the authorised ministers here in this Chamber to the draft national law. I think it goes without saying that the Caribbean contribution should be more firmly anchored. If legislation affects you directly, then you should also be able to talk into it. Now that is limited to consulting. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Last summer I paid a work visit to Bonaire and I experienced in person what ordinary Bonairians are facing. Since 2012, average Caribbean purchasing power has increased. But if you look more closely, you'll see that the increase in vulnerable groups goes by. On Bonaire, the AOV is lower than the price increase. A single 65-pluser receives about $600, while taking into account the actual cost of living should actually be over $1,300. When the money runs out halfway through the month, there's nothing left but to go into instant food, corn daddy or, worse still, skip meals. The lack of basic facilities such as care, medical support and health care is leading, I quote the National Ombudsman, 'to inhumane conditions'. We were able to see poignant images on the NOS Journal yesterday. I find it hard to say to these elderly people that their AOV will be increased in the long term and gradually to an amount of $800, which is still inadequate. That is why I call on this Secretary of State to take action really quickly. There are more examples. For children with disabilities there is no double child benefit. A disabled man told me he was forced to live apart from his wife because otherwise his benefit would be too low to live on at all. Childcare is relatively more expensive for parents in the Caribbean Netherlands due to the lack of childcare allowance in the Caribbean Netherlands. GroenLinks wants the existing differences in the social services for the Caribbean Netherlands to be investigated and, if possible, eliminated. I call on the Secretary of State as a coordinating director to take away the differences together with his colleagues. The CBS notes rising consumer prices. On Bonaire, for example, the price of drinking water has risen by almost 44% in one year. Should the price of utilities not be set differently, such as water, electricity and also internet services? Saba, Saint-Eustatius and Bonaire are too small in population to ask for fixed costs for utilities. The Secretary of State will therefore consider whether the reference point for the social minimum should be adjusted for drinking water. That can really be more concrete as far as I am concerned. The cost of living is known exactly. What are we waiting for to make a price based on solidarity? I have asked questions about import charges and I am glad that steps are being taken to exclude aid. I'd like to hear more precisely what that means. Does this include educationally sound toys for childcare, as the childcare facilities indicate? And is it being considered that measures should also be taken for basic necessities in view of the hugely high price level? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks wholeheartedly agrees with the Secretary of State that children on the islands deserve the best opportunities. In his letter, the Secretary of State outlines a firm policy commitment, for which a sincere heartfelt compliment. Because change is needed here too. Can the Secretary of State also comment on Unicef's letter on the monitoring and evaluation of children's rights of all projects and ensure that necessary expertise is available? Finally, nature and the environment. Sargassum was an environmental disaster. No one really knew how to handle and control this. Then it is necessary to carry out practical on-the-spot investigations and to collect data. A good laboratory facility on Bonaire would be good for public involvement in nature and the environment and for further encouraging young people to take exact courses, for example the young people who are now involved in and around Stinapa. The young people indicate that they are concerned about the future of their island and want to contribute to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u66	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u67	Thank you, Mr President. There is much to say about the Kingdom relations budget, but let me begin by complimenting the Secretary of State. Whoever you're talking to, it sounds like a howdegen, but a howdegen with... Well, "huwdegen" is bad, but as someone who is very tight and appeals to the countries, but at the same time also radiates that he has the heart in the right place. I notice that this is appreciated, including in the countries. I would like to thank you very much and congratulate you on that institution. That is not just a party policy thing for me, but I think it is from my toes. Mr. Chairman. I have just had a little interrupting debate with Mr Bosman. I think we have a fundamentally different view of how to deal with the Kingdom. Let me say first of all that I fully share the concerns he has and those of other Members of Parliament about what is happening there under the rule of law. I think we're on the same page. The only question is what the solution is and which way to go. Perhaps it is because I have experienced even less disillusionment with this portfolio than other colleagues in the Chamber, but I think that I have already explained that we in the Kingdom have family ties with each other. That's how I compare it. In families you tell the truth to each other and you can totally disagree with each other, but at funerals and parties you can see each other and you have a connection with each other. As CDA, we cannot just say goodbye to that, even if it is very bad. For me, the following also plays a very important role. Both on St.Maarten and on Aruba and on Curaçao there are of course forces that I have great difficulty with, but there are also forces that are positive, especially in the coming generations. I believe that we have an obligation to have confidence in this and not to set up an exit model. Having said that, I would like to make two comments, but perhaps this is a moment to hold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u68	That's right. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u69	I don't want to get rid of the islands either, because I love the people. I've been doing that for over 15 years. I love the people on the islands. There are also people of good will, but those people are now without a chance because politics is controlled by the wrong forces, which Mr Van Dam knows as a former policeman like no other. What I very much want with the Kingdom is that responsibilities become clear, so evil people on the islands can't hide behind it and the rotten nephew doesn't ruin it for the rest of the family. That's what the former policeman Van Dam should have ears for, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u70	Not only the former policeman, but also the former district attorney. Before Mr. De Graaf asks what I mean specifically: quite specifically, the CDA would like law enforcement, as well as Foreign Affairs and Defence, to be a Kingdom responsibility. The countries are too small to provide for this themselves. That has not even so much to do with Aruba, Curaçao or Sint-Maarten. Years ago I worked as a district attorney in an area. I won't mention the name because then I get all tweets from that corner. With very small municipalities, where I saw the exact same thing. I also saw that the alderman had to give his own brother an environmental permit. I can't. Therefore, a municipal reclassification is sometimes a very nice thing. Only that's a little tricky when there's all water around your congregation. So I do think that something needs to be done, but then we come to the same problem: that not only should we want that in the present situation, but that this desire should also exist in other places in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u71	The interesting thing is that the discussion has been going on for five minutes and we agree. That's the good thing, that responsibility needs to be clarified. The CDA's suggestion of investing the responsibilities for justice elsewhere is a very interesting proposal. But I have another question. In 10-10-10 we made Saint Martin and Curaçao, with an old Statute, a Statute that was once intended to accompany all former colonies to independence. When it became clear that Curaçao and Saint Martin would remain autonomous countries in the Kingdom, the Statute was not amended. That is why I voted against on behalf of the SP. The CDA, the Labour Party, D66 and GroenLinks have all voted in favour. They have all made a kingdom on the basis of a statute that does not work and cannot work. Does Mr Van Dam not agree with me that we should simply do our homework again? If we see how it rubs and cracks in the Kingdom, should we not do our homework and create a statute with each other in which we can live as a family?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u72	I can only reply to that very briefly. I believe that we have also supported a motion by Mr Van Raak on this point to ask the Secretary of State to investigate this matter. I wholeheartedly support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u73	So we're almost in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u74	But there is one point on which we fundamentally disagree. I'd like to make that point anyway. That is the tone on which we are talking about the Kingdom. I agree with you on a number of points, but I am not talking about people there in an exit model. You won't hear me say that, and I just don't want to say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u75	A point of order: those kind of words are not with me either. I love the kingdom. I'm not from the exit models. I am like: making clear agreements and making sure that we do our state-of-the-art homework here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u76	You made that clear. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u77	I welcome the words of Mr Van Dam. That's how I know him. But he's got the same dilemma that's bothering everyone here. Mr. Van Dam says: I would like the entire legal chain to become a kingdom task. But then it stops. And then it always stops and we don't get anywhere. Or is Mr Van Dam about to table a motion calling on the cabinet to express this position within the four countries and to obtain it as a new requirement in the Statute?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u78	If I make a motion here, that's some kind of executive I'm giving to the Secretary of State who has the same problem. That's not what I'm gonna do here. What I am going to do is to contact IPKO, within the framework of the social development goals, and to talk to fellow MEPs from the countries, in order to get this subject done. Then perhaps you'll be somewhat cynical. That's my word. You'll be asking a bit questiony: do you think that's gonna work? I think we're under orders to keep talking. At least I have to do that before I come up with any other means that I don't think there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u79	What we are asking for with Mr Van Raak's motion is that the cabinet, the ministers, should speak with each other at a high level of administration in order to come up with things that need to be arranged. Why don't we just hand them over: the legal chain should become a kingdom task?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u80	I can do that, but you know as well as I do that this will eventually lead to some sort of defensive reaction, because there may be people in positions who are less happy about it. I think it is indeed possible to talk with powers and forces on the islands, which also see this as something positive, just as in the example I mentioned about these municipalities, everyone was very happy that it was organised in a better and different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u81	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u82	Then it's just gonna take a long time. It's possible. Then we'll talk in IPKO II, III, IV, V and we'll see what comes next.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u83	Proceed, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u84	Let me say something about the financial situation. I think I should concentrate on what is in our budget. That's what I can address the Secretary of State. My eye has fallen on a page where there are all kinds of loans from the countries of the Kingdom. My question is: what exactly is the policy on these loans? I think that especially Curaçao and Saint Martin use this, to a lesser extent Aruba. But to what extent is there also a framework of conditions to be met? Or is there a discussion per loan? I would very much like these loans to be used, including in the functioning of the rule of law, for example, in the functioning of human rights, health development and that sort of thing that we are talking about here. To what extent is that already in question and to what extent would that be a way to go? Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about the Court of Auditors in the Caribbean Netherlands. Could the Secretary of State say what's going on with that? That is precisely what I am asking because there are many concerns about financial management, apart from Saba, and how that is developing. Then I would like to say a few words about the functioning of the rule of law. First of all, we see substantial amounts of money in the budget in support of police, OM and justice in the countries of our Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u85	Perhaps on the previous point, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u86	I would like to touch on Mr Van Dam's point about making loans available from the Netherlands conditional on the state of the rule of law on the islands. I wonder how the CDA is currently assessing the expertise, capacity and competence of the islands in the area of maintaining the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u87	I wanted to say something about that now, but let me do it in response. Of course I'm worried about that. What I am most concerned about is that I see that a great deal of assistance from the Netherlands is needed to give substance to the justice system, the Public Prosecutor's Office and also the police, especially on St.Maarten. I think it is a good thing that this is happening, because if I am here trying to say that I think there is a gap in the rule of law, then I must also support that assistance is being provided. But at the same time I would very much like the countries to be more self-sufficient in that. I have a question for the Secretary of State. Now I know that the Minister for Justice and Security is primarily on the table, but I also think it is important, in view of the budget and the posts that are heading in that direction: I would like to see much more independence and independence. It also seems much better to me that you see that lawsuits or police work are being picked up by your own people. We still have a lot to invest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u88	I am just trying to understand Mr Van Dam's point. What exactly is his goal if capacity and assistance is needed from the Netherlands in order to enforce the rule of law properly? If that doesn't work, so he says, we want to keep our hands on the cut and not provide any more assistance. I do not quite understand the point that Mr Van Dam just made. Maybe he can clear it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u89	Yeah, sure. I'd love to. I do not think it is wrong that if the countries ask for financial assistance to the Netherlands in the form of loans at lower rates than if they go into the capital market themselves, they are subject to conditions and that they also include, for example, that there are not seven vacancies, but that they are filled at the Landsrecherche in Saint Martin. In such concrete forms, I believe that we can take steps and that one policy area can support the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u91	I would have stuck with the independent functioning of these organisations in the rule of law. I'd like a response to that. I would like to say a few words about human rights, specifically on two aspects. First of all, the asylum procedure. As far as I am concerned, we are sufficiently informed about the measures taken there, but it is also simply about emergency aid for people, food and clothing. The money is mainly spent on procedures, on setting things up. I have got the impression from contacts I have had that there is less money available for this real emergency aid. It is special, because the policy of the Dutch government is that refugees are taken care of in their own region. You can say that especially Curaçao and Aruba in relation to Venezuela are their own region. At the same time, they are once again excluded from the budgets available to provide emergency aid. I believe that the ODA budgets are because they are the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Then I think to myself: yes, guys, it's two-and-a-half. I would like to hear at least from the Secretary of State what opportunities he sees for helping the countries out of these budgets and, in particular, for helping organisations that are doing a great deal for these refugees. I myself have the feeling that the Minister for Development Cooperation is very legally dealing with these criteria. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Then I've had this and I've come to a little smaller work that I'd like to submit to the Secretary of State. We had a very intensive debate on the dispute settlement before the summer. In the meantime, we have all read what the Council of State thought. Even the President can remember the debate very well, including the waiting time we had for a moment. I would like to thank you once again for the patience you put on the mat. I have seen that the Council of State has given an opinion and was less happy with the step of the Chamber. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what progress has been made and how he looks at this. I also have one thing to say about the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. It is, of course, very easy to really park everything that is happening there in this debate. But let's face it, we still have all kinds of budgets from individual ministries that also apply to the Caribbean Netherlands. I think that, in particular, the debate with Mrs Van Ark should take place on the issue of security of existence and so on. Nevertheless, there are three points on this subject. First of all, I cannot ignore the report on pensioners. Of course, that point must be taken up in that debate, but I find it very poignant. If we were to deal with our pensioners like this here in the Netherlands, the whole room would be turned upside down. If I'm here to say it's family, then every old grandmother on Bonaire is my old grandmother, too. Then I think to myself that it's very poignant what's happening there, the images that are there. I think it is a good thing that we are asking the Secretary of State for a response to this in this debate. What does the Cabinet think it should do with this? Then there's another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u92	On the previous point, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u93	The situation of the elderly is very close to my heart. I'm glad to hear that from you, too. Do you agree with me that, given the acute situation there, measures must be taken quickly to deal with the poverty of this group of older people, in order to improve it quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u94	I am putting it forward here and I agree with you that I want to hear from the cabinet what it will do with it in the short term. If this question of yours implies whether I'm willing to pull the wallet and come up with millions for this right away, I'll say no. 'Cause if I'm gonna make a proposal like that, I'm gonna need those millions, too, but I don't have one. I ask the Secretary of State what the cabinet intends to do in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u96	A second point in the Caribbean Netherlands concerns roads and infrastructure. We have had a letter on this very recently. I understand that mixing concrete in the Caribbean Netherlands is a very different story than when you have to do it here in Doetinchem, but I would like to ask what progress has been made. I think it is such a tangible example for people of progress on the islands. Do you drive on a dirt road or on a concrete road? I think sometimes you just have to show this kind of thing to the people. I am a little disappointed at the pace at which this is happening. Could the Secretary of State reassure me? Can we not only speed up the road soon, but also speed up the road? Finally, I would like to mention the air links and the associated postal services. That is also something you think: these are tangible things for people. We have been there and we know how the cost of living is also affected by the cost of air connections. And we also know how the postal service depends on that. These are things that we will certainly discuss in the debate with Secretary of State Keijzer for Economic Affairs, but I would also like to ask the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs for a reply. Mr. Chairman. I'm running out of time. Finally, I would like to say the following. Yes, the CDA is also very critical of what is happening in a number of countries in the Kingdom. Over the last few weeks, I have been very critical of the situation in Saint Martin and of what is happening to the government there. But I cannot ignore the fact that also on St.Maarten the Election Council did the right thing. I would really like to avoid in my approach not breathing the good forces, so to speak, and not paying attention to them. I think we should always keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u98	For more than fifteen years I have been working on Saint Martin and I must say, Mr President, I have never been so gloomy. Besides, it's not about those people: I like that. I love the people of Saint Martin. But there's a majority of politicians who just really don't want to do the right thing. A lot of them have already been convicted. Chanel Brownbill has been convicted of fraud and corruption. I also call Maria Buncamper, Silvio Matser. Some have been arrested for large-scale fraud and corruption. I call Frans Richardson, a prominent politician. I call Theo Heyliger, the great man on the mountain without whom nothing can happen on Saint Martin. Since he was arrested for large-scale fraud and corruption, he has also worked towards dropping the government for the ninth time in nine years. And yes, there will be elections, and then the people have a choice between a government that doesn't want to cooperate with the Netherlands, and a government that never wanted to cooperate with the Netherlands. That makes me sad, even because I had hope after Irma. The hurricane destroyed the island, and then we did our best in the Netherlands. If you add it together, we have made more than EUR 600 million available. We've made people and resources available. We've given our sense of kingdom all the space. We have invested in the Kingdom. And what happened? We have, of course, made one demand, namely that the money should not be misused for fraud and corruption. And what do you see? A majority of the politicians on St.Maarten then do everything in their power to frustrate it, because they cannot benefit from fraud and corruption. After all these years, I have still looked at the fact that St Maarten will soon be blacklisted for refusing to adopt legislation against money laundering, tax evasion, terrorist financing. If they get on that list, the economy will collapse, because tourists can't pin anymore. And yet a majority of politicians are not prepared to do anything. The dump, the port, the airport, 100 million will be made available. The aid of the World Bank, the aid of Schiphol, a beautiful airport is offered to them. We have a demand: it must not be about fraud and corruption. And what do you see? Everything is being done by a majority of politicians to frustrate that project. And they seem to be doing it, too. Then what's going on? Why is that happening? Is it just the Man on the Mountain, or are there others? I am very afraid that I have to conclude that fraud and corruption have become a model of earning in St Martin's politics. That's a big problem for our kingdom. I stood here on 10-10-10 and I stood here on this spot, and I said, "Sint-Maarten is not ready and neither is Curaçao." I voted against it. But a large majority of parties in this Chamber said: no, Saint Martin is fine, let's do it, and so is Curaçao. And one day after the elections, the islands were taken over by the Gokmafia. Because it's not only Saint Martin, you can now see that there are many investigations taking place in Aruba about politicians connected to the underworld. But on Curaçao: Jamaloodin, 28 years in prison for a political murder. Gerrit Schotte, the former prime minister, in prison. The funder of all these people, from Schotte, from Francesco Corallo, is on trial in Italy for large-scale fraud of hundreds of millions and bribing ministers in the Berlusconi government. Large scale, because the amounts in that online gambling industry are large. There is a tremendous amount of money being laundered, including from the drug industry. And is that all the fault of people on the island? No, because who was doing Corallo's books, who was doing the books on that goddamn boss? KPMG. The money for bribing ministers in Italy, by whom was that money deposited? By Fortis Bank, then a state bank of the Netherlands. So that fraud and corruption, the earning model of those politicians on the islands, has also been made possible by the Dutch financial sector. The islands have a fantastic financial sector, with accountants, fiscalists and consultants, who employ the underworld. That's a big problem. If we do not fight that, we can make thousands of agreements here, but then it will sound like a no from the Mountain and it will not go on. Together with colleague Bosman, I took the initiative in 2015, together with the cabinet, for a Team Combat Undermining, to investigate the links between the underworld and the upper world, between politics and the gammafia. I mentioned a lot of examples that make me gloomy, but they also have to make me a little happy, because they are now being arrested, there is now a lot of cleaning. I think that's the first beginning of what we need to do to have a future for the Kingdom. Thank you for the letter from the Secretary of State. I understand that funding will end in 2021. I think it's important to continue this. We must invest a great deal in the Kingdom, but we must free the islands from the colonialism of the underworld, from the gammafia. That investigation needs to be continued. I am prepared to table a motion in second place with Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u99	I do need to take a look at what Mr Van Raak, also in relation to Mr Bosman's input, has for ideas on this point. Moreover, I must congratulate him and Mr Bosman on the effort they have made with regard to TBO. At the anthology he gives here about what's wrong, he still held back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u100	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u101	Let's face it. If you had lined up all the newspaper articles, we would have needed a little more time. But my problem with that is that I do not see much benefit in dealing with the whole Statute. I understand from you that we were already very close together; I didn't quite get it myself. But can't we make a deal that we're really gonna be talking about law enforcement in the next few days? That that's the focus point we're going for, and that's what we're all saying, guys, how do we get that on the shovel and on the ride?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u102	Yes, I agree. I would be happy to start with that, at least not to let that go. But I also want to put the ball back with the CDA. We received a statute in 1954, which was in fact obsolete at the time of our adoption. That was our frustration with Indonesia, which became independent. The CPN was for independence from Indonesia, all other parties opposed. We wanted to hold on to that. That Statute is actually intended to hold former colonies to the process of independence. But when countries want to stay in the Kingdom and have a permanent position as an autonomous country in the Kingdom, they cannot do so with that old Statute. At a time like this, you have to lay down responsibilities. That's exactly why I stood here in 2010 and said I was against it. That wasn't because I didn't grant these countries their autonomy; I gave them that. I was against it because I thought you couldn't do that with a statute that hasn't been adapted to that new situation. Why? I can set you up a whole tree about why that didn't happen. Mr Pechtold has played a good role in this. But we're gonna have to do that homework anyway. I realize that this is very difficult now, but we will somehow have to create a statute that will work. I am also pleased that the motion was adopted in the debate on the dispute settlement, in which parliamentarians from the other countries also say: we must do so. For the good-willed on St.Maarten, the good-willed on Curaçao, the good-willed on Aruba also see that it doesn't work that way. And they too are quite willing to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u103	If that helps, I would of course like to say to Mr Van Raak that he is absolutely right about everything he has done in or around the year 2010. I wasn't there; I don't know, but my party obviously was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u104	Yeah, and he wanted to keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u105	Yeah, sure, but we're alive now. We are in this situation right now, and I do not think it is productive at all to remove the entire Statute. I think you should be selective in the solution and also selective in naming the problem. I think there's a better chance of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u106	The good politicians get in the way of the Statute, because the evil politicians can sit back, commit fraud and corruption and blame the Netherlands. The people on the islands are the victims of this, and the good politicians on the island are the victims of it. But I'm standing here with a pin from Saba. I'm just going to talk about Saint Martin and Saba today, and I'm not even getting to the rest. Saba's fine. And Saba also shows that it can. I am very angry at the cabinet, really angry, because in January 2015, five years ago, we agreed on Saba that Saba could do more things herself. Why? Because Saba can control himself better than the men can control themselves from the ten towers here in The Hague. We have mentioned one example among many: work permits. And every year when we get to Saba, I'm embarrassed because it's not settled. I'm embarrassed! I don't have a story. We pulled the emergency brake. We've invited three State Secretary, we've had a meeting, Chairman, you don't believe it about the work permits on Saba. Yeah, the Secretary of State said it's really gonna be taken care of. Who's the gentleman or lady in the tower who's stopping it? I'm gonna need a name and number right now. Why isn't it happening? It is very bad: twenty social rental homes are built on Saba. Twenty! And now Social Affairs has shut down construction because of the work permits. It takes them three to four months, while Saba can do it in a week. At high cost, workers who are building those houses there every two weeks must be up and down to St.Maarten where they live; rotten time, 200 dollars for a flight, every two weeks they have to go up and down. This is insane! Why isn't the Secretary of State gonna take care of that? Who's in charge of this kingdom? Is that the parliament, are those three State Secretarys, or is that the gentleman or lady in a tower who says "no" and "no"? Take care of it, Secretary of State! Or should we invite the entire government here? I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea to agree. Let's do that. If this isn't arranged for Christmas, we'll invite the first meeting after the recess to the entire cabinet here. And then the work permit on Saba will be arranged. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u107	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Mr Van Dam said that you held back today, but I did not notice much of it. Or did you say that, Mr. Bosman? No, Mr Van Dam said that. Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66. See if you can get over that, Mrs. Diertens. That's not gonna work, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u108	I'm not gonna try. Great. Sometimes it can really help to give that a little bit of spice. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. The King said in the Throne speech: "We often conduct discussions on the basis of figures. No life adds to the median of a statistical model." Although that is true, it is important to look at figures, especially at the people behind the figures. 25,000 Caribbean Dutch people live in poverty in the Caribbean Netherlands. Some elderly people don't have toilets at home. There are kids who don't get a hot meal. Mr. Chairman. We debated the social minimum and the benchmark in the spring. I would now like to have Mr Van Raak's spirit. I complimented Secretary of State Tamara van Ark on her work, but there is still a great deal of uncertainty. Take care of the elderly. The Ombudsman's report is truly alarming. I quote: "The livelihood is expensive and the facilities are poor, so vulnerable groups such as the elderly really live in bitter, bitter poverty." As far as my group is concerned, old age insurance for the elderly must be sufficient to meet the basic needs of life and to be able to live on. Can the Secretary of State give an initial response to the Ombudsman's report? Another unclear point in the elaboration is childcare. I am glad that we support the importance of childcare in the Caribbean Netherlands, but what is the basic allowance that Secretary of State Van Ark is talking about? Does this allowance go directly to childcare or do parents receive this allowance? Shouldn't parents be paying for some later? If so, how can poor families afford this, given the benchmark? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u109	Secretary of State Van Ark has said that she is in favour of making childcare a basic provision. We don't know what that's gonna look like yet. My question is: can a particular municipality, which are the islands of the Caribbean Netherlands, take initiatives themselves to take measures for families in poverty, such as providing free childcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u110	I am sure you have read the same article I read about pilot projects in the municipality of Rotterdam in which people who live in the assistance receive free childcare, including so that they can be included in their personal development earlier. Because of the regulations, Bonaire itself is not able to do so. So I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what his reaction is to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u112	It is also important to determine the impact of childcare. In order to offer good childcare, such as BES(t) 4 kids from UNICEF, you need to have an insight into which children you want to reach and what the home situation is. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with me that we should also investigate the impact of childcare. Could this possibly be taken along with the CBS? Mr. Chairman. What I see a lot about myself is a more modern library. I've been to the library on Bonaire, and I've been to the library on St. Eustatius. St. Eustatius's is even better than Bonaire's. Various services could be provided there. Libraries could play a role in this. I call it a modern e-learning center. There's distance learning in it too. A modern library offers free internet access. A modern library offers space for courses and further training. A modern library offers room for meeting in the community. The current library used to be the freezer room of a supermarket. There's no Internet in there. In March 2018, the Chamber already adopted a motion from me on libraries in the Caribbean Netherlands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with the Minister of OCW on the implementation of my motion and what actions could we possibly speed up? Have there been any discussions between the cabinet and local administrators about a contribution to a new building or existing building for a modern library? Mr. Chairman. I'm also very happy with the profile of Blue Destination on Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u113	Before you proceed, Mr Bosman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u114	Mrs. Diertens is asking a lot of questions. Of course, that's her right. Only, before the summer we had a huge written round with the entire cabinet. D66 chose not to ask questions at that time. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u115	I have to keep the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u116	Then you will return to that at another time or in the second term. Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u117	Yes. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u118	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u119	Bonaire is working on the profile of Blue Destination: sustainable tourism that contributes to nature, culture and economy. I like the initiative. I understand that all roads are being rebuilt. I see a new opportunity in this: to set up bicycle paths or bicycle lanes immediately. I do understand that cycling on Saba is not a do, but cyclists are an interesting new tourist target group for Bonaire. Perhaps the Blue Destination idea will fit in if we start to build. Can the Secretary of State confirm whether new roads are being built on Bonaire? Is he willing to talk to the drivers involved in the context of Blue Destination, and perhaps also to the Chamber of Commerce, about the construction of bicycle paths? We also need to take good care of nature. D66 has often stressed that the coral around the islands deserves better protection. I am glad that we will finally be able to receive a natural policy plan for the Caribbean Netherlands shortly. At the same time, last Wednesday, the oil platform destroyed a 60-metre strip of coral off the coast of Curaçao. Curaçao is an autonomous country with its own Minister for Nature, but I ask the Secretary of State if there is any way in which our Kingdom can unite in this, for example by sharing knowledge and deploying the border guard. My colleague Tjeerd de Groot will also discuss this issue in the LNV budget. The problem of refugees on the island also deserves attention. D66 continues to worry about the situation there. My colleagues Grotehuizen and Sjoerdsma were on Curaçao last summer and were shocked by what they found: people in barracks who were allowed out 1 hour out of 24 hours, Venezuelans who live in bad conditions and are vulnerable to exploitation, people who have barely access to medical care, doctors who are concerned about the spread of a disease such as HIV. That way I can make up a list. D66 is pleased that the government is taking steps in the form of funding and training to improve the situation. There is now some kind of asylum procedure in Curaçao, but there is often a gap between paper and reality. Is this procedure also being applied and is it known? Are the government, the lawyers and the judges really ready? I'd like a response. From the European Union there are also opportunities to help. Our MEP Samira Rafaela has already drawn attention to this. For example, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund can provide emergency support. The European Asylum Support Office can provide support with expertise in the registration and integration of refugees. For emergency aid and support, Member States may apply to the European Commission. To date, the Netherlands has not submitted such an application to the Commission. What's the reason for this? And are you prepared to do this again? Mr. Chairman. I cannot escape the impression that the bad situation that is now taking place on the islands seems to be happening to us. There are studies showing that possibly 50,000 Venezuelans would consider travelling to Curaçao or Aruba. My group hopes that a plan will now be put in place, should the pressure suddenly increase significantly, so that we are no longer surprised. Hence my question: what is the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u120	I'm a little surprised. You're talking about a report talking about 50,000 people. What report is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u121	That's a report from the United Nations, if I recall correctly. I'll come back to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u122	You want to know exactly what report that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u123	Yeah, too. That helps, if you put something down in a debate like "it's going to be 50,000 Venezuelans." That's intense; that's about a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u124	Yes. It's also very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u125	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u126	So you will have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u127	Fine, but then I'd like to know the following. This cabinet is being looked at now, but what does Mrs. Diertens think Curaçao should do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u128	I think our strength lies in the cooperation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u129	It's an autonomous country. There's a responsibility at Curaçao. What should Curaçao do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u130	Just as we are already working on asylum procedures, because they have asked a question of help on this issue, they have asked several questions. I could imagine, in the context of the refugee problem, that we will work closely together on this in our Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u131	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u132	Mr. Chairman. The situation on St.Maarten is fragile and reconstruction is difficult to get under way. I hope that the Secretary of State agrees with me that the people of Saint Martin should not suffer from this political situation. I'm asking the Secretary of State to be more creative. Can the Secretary of State explain whether, for example, we can obtain results more quickly for people, especially in the psychosocial domain? I come to my final theme: working together in the Kingdom. Just before the summer recess, we discussed the dispute settlement in the Chamber together with the delegations from the countries. The Council of State has, on request, delivered an opinion on the setting up of a Division of Kingdom Disputes. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this advice? Finally, Mr President. On 10-10-10, relations between the countries and territories of the Kingdom changed dramatically. We have just discussed it extensively and we disagree very much about it in many areas, but everyone's concern is equal. Since then, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, like the Netherlands and Aruba, have been autonomous countries within the Kingdom, forming Bonaire, Statia and Saba Caribbean Netherlands. After ten years, it's time to take stock. What has this development brought us? Can we conclude on the basis of the objectives set at the time whether what we have intended has been achieved? Is the Secretary of State open from his coordinating role to an in-depth evaluation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u134	Mr. Chairman. I'm running a little stiff, because I had thought in my hubris that I could run half a marathon. So could I; just don't ask how. Walking fast is sometimes a bit of a half-dead end. On the other hand, it also means that you just have to hold on a little bit. Mr. Chairman. Now some of a more serious nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u135	I thought, "This is a bridge."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u136	Of course, we all just want a nice place to live. You want a place where you feel at home, where you feel safe, where you can give your dushi a sunchi in the evening, because it has come home safely, where your children have a future and can grow up nicely, and where you can just eat a nice sandwich in the morning and pay for it. It doesn't really matter which side of the ocean you live on. I think that's what we all want. But there are places in our Kingdom where it is not self-evident and where poverty is great and intense. There's drug crime and there's a lot of catching up to do. We see this in Rotterdam-Zuid, for example. There the problems are immensely greater than we actually know in the Netherlands. That is why Rotterdam-Zuid started the National Programme Rotterdam Zuid in 2011. This followed an extensive analysis by Mr Deetman, who lasted more than ten months. The first, cautious results are now visible. Cito scores are rising, the number of benefits is dropping carefully and you can see that the neighbourhoods are being refurbished, because the housing has just been addressed. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: would it not also be conceivable to come up with a national programme of Curaçao? We already have a growth agreement. I know. That runs for four years. But can't we in the extension of that we already do such a reconnaissance? It is my belief that a long-term approach is the only way to achieve something substantial. What works in Rotterdam-Zuid, I think should also succeed on Curaçao. Then we can ensure that more people receive decent education, that more people get a job with perspective, that more people live in a house that actually offers quality and that more people, especially young people, also see perspective on Curaçao, instead of feeling forced to leave elsewhere. Sometimes they also come to the Netherlands, where they are trapped in a no man's land. They are neither able to find a decent job nor able to return. I think that's worth an investment. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State: how does he feel about this idea? Does he want to start a reconnaissance? That's what you do with all kinds of partners. And we can learn from the experiences they have gained with the National Programme in Rotterdam-Zuid. Mr. Chairman. Of course, steps must also be taken quickly in the short term. It has already been said by several colleagues. I am grateful to the Cabinet for the fact that they are now taking steps to raise the social minimum, but at the same time we are seeing a number of old people at the same time. How are we going to tackle that in the short term? What is the use of small steps for these people, when we know that urgent help is now needed? That is my specific question to the Secretary of State. My second question concerns debt relief, because everyone agrees that the debt problem is not only a problem for the islands, but also for the individuals, the people themselves. But we don't really know about debt relief. We don't have legal frameworks for that. I know that this is a task for the islands themselves, but I still wonder if it is not wise to see if you could work together with the islands to create a form or a system of debt relief. My third question concerns education. In 2014, a new school system was introduced in the BES islands, but I understand that it is still not entirely clear to which Dutch level the diplomas obtained should be converted. That seems pretty relevant to me. This seems small; I think it is a small gap, but this has to be settled. Does the Secretary of State recognise this and, if so, what can he do about it? Mr. Chairman. We have paid a great deal of attention to children's rights in recent years. I would also like to see whether we can learn from Dutch steps, Dutch initiatives and Dutch legislation. Above all, I would like to continue to draw attention to this. Finally, of course, I come to the situation on Saint Martin. I would particularly like to know from the Secretary of State how he is going to ensure that, in particular, reconstruction projects, such as the airport, waste and housing, are at least completed. Can he give a specific clue to that? It is not about the whole island, but at least I want this for these reconstruction projects. Can he force that through the National Council of Ministers? Mr President, I will conclude. We as humans are quite simple: we want a cottage, we want a tree and we want a creature, in all parts of the Kingdom. Let's take care of that together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u138	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. The Christian Union feels a very warm bond with the islands and the people in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. I am also pleased to have the opportunity to speak about this myself in this Chamber, here in the House of Representatives. The Christian Union welcomes the announcement by the Secretary of State that he wants to look with the countries at the division of responsibilities between the countries and at the bottlenecks that exist. The Christian Union hopes that the countries will also respond positively to this. The Secretary of State's letter on this matter came from last week. I wonder if the Secretary of State has already received a response from the countries in our Kingdom. I would like to emphasise that the Christian Union has a serving attitude in mind by the Dutch government, with respect for the differences between them. That is the starting point. Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about the administrative situation in Saint Martin. I'm certainly not the only one in that. Me and the Christian Union hope that the good forces can stand up there, people who really have the good in mind with the people of Saint Martin. In this respect, we are pleased that there will be additional room for new parties to report to the elections. We wish the people on the island much strength. They deserve a government which stands before them and which is also working to restore the island and rebuild it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a number of points. When it comes to children's rights...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u139	I have an informative question about reconstruction. Some of your colleagues have said: give a clue to the whole of Saint Martin. In particular, I asked: can you give a specific indication of the issues covered by reconstruction? I do not think any Saint Martiner has anything to do with the political mess; they just want a roof over their heads. Where are you? Where is the Christian Union in all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u140	The Christian Union is more on the verge of being proposed by Mrs Kuik. For the Christian Union, it is of the utmost importance that the island be rebuilt. I can see with my eyes what the board has now shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u142	Mr. Chairman. I'm here for children's rights. The Christian Union is concerned about the estimated 5,400 minors on the islands of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. We read stories in UNICEF's report and also the Children's Rights collective about domestic violence, serious neglect, abuse and hunger. About 60% of the young interviewees on the islands know someone who's been sexually abused. A similar report, five years ago, prompted the Christian Union and the Labour Party to make money available to the children of the islands. Good things have been done: on Saba child care has been strengthened and there is a sports coach, on Bonaire is working on a Child Pass, with which children can go to weekly activities, and on Saint-Eustatius are purchased play equipment for primary schools. How can we ensure that these efforts become structural? Mr. Chairman. I share the concerns about the lack of a legal framework for child abuse. The Secretary of State writes in his letter that he wants to supplement the administrative agreement with agreements. But does the Secretary of State really want to look at a single criminal record to ban child abuse? Mr. Chairman. Not only children are vulnerable, people with disabilities are vulnerable. Three years ago, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in the Netherlands. At that time, with D66, we advocated a plan of action to improve their position on the BES islands, but that is not easy. There has been talk of co-financing of the Convention, but this requires implementing legislation. As long as nothing happens, the people with disabilities will suffer in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. Is the Secretary of State willing to look together with the Secretary of State of VWS at how Caribbean Netherlands can be supported in its implementation and what timetable can be used? Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about poverty. Life is expensive, and it's a disgrace in our eyes. Older people have to skip meals and they eat vegetables at most twice a month. We cannot allow that to continue. The Christian Union supports the government's measures to increase the legal minimum wage, benefits and child benefit, but asks the following question. Do we know the effects of the measures we are taking? That brings me to another point. Do we know enough? Do we have enough figures to measure our policies effectively every year? We don't think so right now. What are the effects? How does the Secretary of State feel about that? And is he prepared to improve the information infrastructure on the islands and in the countries? Does he see the need for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u143	I am referring to disability policy because I think it is very important for disabled children to be able to participate. Is Mrs Van der Graaf aware of the contribution for children, i.e. for support or for childcare? Otherwise, she may be able to pass this question on to the Secretary of State. I know that disabled children in the Netherlands get double what ordinary children get. In that context, it seemed clear to me to be able to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u144	I would like to know at what time this Secretary of State expects a proposal for the child benefit scheme for children in need of intensive care. I would therefore like to put that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u145	I heard Mrs Van der Graaf express her concerns about the poverty of the elderly. She agrees that it is poignant. But then it became a long-term policy story, while everything, from the NOS Journal to the Ombudsman's report, shows that the situation is really acute. Does Mrs Van der Graaf therefore support my appeal to the Secretary of State to move quickly in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u146	I see that the cabinet is taking steps and I would like to know from the Secretary of State what actions are now being taken and whether they will provide for the need that exists. So I want to know if it's enough. I think I've just shared with you what the Christian Union thinks about that. The Ombudsman's report was very clear. This calls for action in relation to the Christian Union. The point I wanted to make here is that we're raising some benefits. We're increasing child support, too. We see that the cost of living is high. We are taking a number of measures to reduce these costs. The Christian Union wants to know whether these measures actually work. We would really like to see the impact of the policy reported annually and whether we are doing the right thing. Take children's rights, for example. I just had to talk about an estimate of the number of minors. Shouldn't we know how many there are and what it takes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u147	I have heard the support in the first part of your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u148	Please continue, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u149	There are three specific points on law enforcement in Curaçao. I am very worried about Curaçao as an online gambling paradise. It is called in a breath with gambling hallas like Malta and the Cayman Islands. What about extending the powers of the Gaming Control Board? I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he can really break those jars. Could the Dutch Gaming Authority also play a role in this? Mr. Chairman. When I look at the refugee crisis, it cannot be that there is money while refugees are being put in prison under appalling conditions. How is the Christian Union's motion on humane reception and the prevention of the return of refugees now being implemented, I ask the Secretary of State. Finally, a second point in relation to the refugee crisis, namely trafficking in human beings. 43 of the 44 registered victims of trafficking in human beings in Curaçao in 2018 were Venezuelan. The problem of trafficking in human beings is growing. Can the resources for the refugee approach and undermining be used for this? Can we provide support to Curaçao, for example through the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u150	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u151	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me express my sympathy with my colleague from the SP, who so emotionally argued what is not going well there and how frustrating that is when you have been working on it for fifteen years. I can imagine. I've only been involved in this file half the time, but I do recognize the feeling that sometimes it's swimming in syrup. They are lengthy and long-winded discussions. Push and pull. Sometimes you feel like there's hardly any movement in it. You would actually want things different, with respect for the independence of each of those countries and the people there. You'd like to change things, because there's a lot wrong. In this respect, I think Mr Bosman's point is very good. Shouldn't we take a moment to think carefully about whether we have properly regulated the situation in the Staff Regulations? Have we not organised part of the problem itself by not investing the powers and responsibilities clearly or insufficiently clearly? I'd like to have that conversation. I don't know if you need to get out of the Staff Regulations or whatever, but I think it's okay to talk about it. Mr. Chairman. Strengthening administrative power is an important issue, inter alia through law enforcement. I am very much in favour of that. I note that the Secretary of State is on top of that and that the necessary work is being done. The administration has now become too fragmented by local, national and national responsibilities. The ministries therefore have their own thinking line each time. I have often asked: how is the coordinating role of the Secretary of State given substance? I still have the impression, on the basis of all kinds of documents, that there are too many lines of their own going to the islands outside the coordinating govern ment, which should actually go through the lock of the coordinating govern ment. My question on this part is whether the Secretary of State has a concrete picture of where we want to stand in this respect in five years' time. Perhaps the Secretary of State will no longer be Secretary of State for Kingdom Affairs. It could be. But where should his successor be in five years' time? What, then, is the role of the coordinating director compared to that of his colleagues? Mr. Chairman. We are also talking about the division of powers between the Kingdom and the countries. I just mentioned that. This is being investigated in the light of an approved motion. We are curious about the result that is aimed at improving mutual relations. We look forward to that. Just after the summer, we adopted a legislative proposal to settle the Kingdom's disputes after a long stretch. In our view, that is a good step forward, but in the meantime we have a spicy text from the Council of State on the special, separate section. What specific course does the govern ment have in mind in this respect? When can we expect an opinion from the National Council of Ministers? The issue of cooperation between the countries and the islands is also rightly addressed. If there are similar circumstances, isn't it a pity to reinvent the wheel everywhere? Can the Secretary of State indicate on which five themes he intends to use to arrive at a differentiated approach by country or island, in view of similarities and differences? Mr. Chairman. For the sake of convenience, I would like to endorse the comments made by my fellow Members and the concerns expressed by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u152	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. That brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-21.u153	The Secretary of State will give answers to the questions asked at 10.15 a.m. on Thursday.
