ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the Wet experiment closed coffeeshop chain, Roompiece 34997. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg as the first speaker. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Madam President, good morning. What was the first Dutch coffee shop is controversial. Was it Sarasani in Utrecht or the Amsterdam Mellow Yellow? But the fact is that some 50 years ago the decision was taken to re-establish soft drugs because of the recognition that some drugs are much more harmful than others and because of the desire not to mix the markets for soft and hard drugs. Cannabis has never been legalized in the Netherlands, but its use and sale have been tolerated since then, but under strict conditions: coffee shops are not allowed to advertise, sell hard drugs, cause nuisance, allow young people, sell large quantities of cannabis and hashish, and in principle only residents of the Netherlands are allowed to buy cannabis and hashish. In recent years, many municipalities have faced the negative aspects of cannabis sales and production, such as decay in some neighbourhoods. More and more municipal authorities therefore opt for harder enforcement of the conditions. As a result, the number of coffee shops has also fallen significantly in recent years, from more than 1,500 in 1995 to less than 600 today. Although the nuisance could be tackled well, the link between coffeeshops and crime is a permanent problem. This is due to the fact that the production of cannabis and the supply to coffee shops are still not regulated, illegal, criminal. Organised crime has made a lot of money from pot production. In order to take the wind out of organised crime, to formulate a more coherent policy and to regulate the back door, this Chamber adopted in 2017 the initiative bill of Mr Bergkamp and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. That bill is currently on the shelf in the First Chamber. The call to regulate or legalize the sale of cannabis is much broader than in the Netherlands alone. In several countries cannabis is legalized, as in Uruguay and Canada, or otherwise regulated, as in some states in the United States. But that is without prejudice to the tension with international drug treaties. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the treaties are being amended, but research at Radboud University has shown that they are already leaving some room, through the link of positive human rights obligations. If legalization leads to less crime, more security and improvements in the field of public health, states may decide, or even be required, to refrain from a total ban on drugs, from a war on drugs with its negative implications. If. The experiment offers us the opportunity to know whether legalising and regulating cannabis can have positive effects on the realisation of human rights. That is the added value of the experiment laid down in the coalition agreement, which we are discussing today, or rather: it can be the added value of the bill. But it must of course be designed in such a way that these lessons can actually be drawn, in a credible and scientific way. Following on from the Council of State and the Knottnerus Advisory Committee, GroenLinks doubts whether this is enough. First of all, the experiment is very limited, with up to ten municipalities, while we know nothing about the size of the municipalities and how many coffee shops they have. Because of the obligation for all coffee shops to participate in a municipality, some municipalities, such as Amsterdam, have already indicated that they do not like this. Can the Minister explain why the maximum of ten municipalities was set in this way? Why wasn't a certain percentage of coffeeshops chosen from the total, or from any other indication? What is the scientific basis for a maximum of ten municipalities? And then there's the problem with the finiteness of the experiment. Afterwards the coffee shops will have to go back to the current situation. In written questions, Mrs Bergkamp states that it is a persistent misunderstanding that coffeeshop holders should return to the current situation after the experiment, regardless of whether the experiment has turned out positive or negative. But why is that a misunderstanding? The Minister also stated in the reply that "the experiment does not stop automatically after four years" was communicated in the message. So that's what the Minister says. That may have been communicated, but where exactly is it in the law we have here before us? When I read Article 4 of the law, the experiment has a duration of four years, unless a different duration is determined by a general measure of governance. That other maturity may not exceed one and a half years. Then the text stops. So my question to the Minister is: does the experiment end automatically after that maximum time and after renewal? In the meantime, the House of Representatives can of course adopt a different law. You can always do that. In the meantime, perhaps Mrs Bergkamp will put her law to the vote in the Upper House. It's possible. On the basis of the results of the experiment, the government may also decide to bring forward a new legislative proposal. Of course you can. But I think it has been agreed on the basis of this law that it is a temporary experiment, which will automatically end, and that the former situation will have to be restored afterwards. Is it true what I'm saying? Or can the Minister indicate where this law states that we do not automatically return to the current situation? Moreover, the Knottnerus Committee interprets the present law in such a way that, regardless of the results, the situation must be restored to what it is like at the end. The committee calls this intended finiteness not only undesirable, but also unethical. Because if huge efforts are made by municipalities, coffee shop owners and others, and if the results of these efforts are positive, then the government must commit itself to appropriate follow-up steps. Because we're not a scientific institution that's just investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	I welcome the fact that Mrs Buitenweg is asking this question, because in practice I also notice that there is a lot of confusion about it. Let me explain how I interpret it. It is very good that an experiment has a beginning and an end. You shouldn't think about an experiment going on forever. We can't even legally do that. So it is very important that there is a beginning and an end to it. But there is the possibility of extending the experiment for a further six months and there is the possibility of extending it for another one and a half years via an AMvB. This can be done, for example, in anticipation of transposition into new legislation, if the sitting cabinet is enthusiastic. Or maybe I'm gonna do something with my own law, which is now waiting in the First Chamber. For example, what is built up in the experiment can be incorporated into a new law. That's how I interpret it. If so, is Mrs Buitenweg satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	I find it interesting that it is now about how Mrs Bergkamp interprets it, because I would have liked to ask her that in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	She's gonna be next.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	We'll just do a dialogue today, outside the rules. I'm okay with that. I'm just trying to make it clear right now. That can also be done by motion; I would like to talk about that. Before the experiment is complete, so after those four years or after these extensions, this Parliament should take a decision on how we proceed. If it's all messed up, it could be that we're not gonna regulate anything. We may also decide to regulate the back door, of which GroenLinks is most in favour at the moment. But that means we have a decision. Now I don't see anywhere in the law that such a decision is intended. I understand very well that Mrs Bergkamp says that there is a certain time, that it can be extended and that a decision can be taken at that time. Yeah, you can. But there is no record that such a decision is planned or is to be prepared. I would therefore like to table a motion for a resolution, and I believe that the Minister's commitment is a great deal to say that this experiment is not just going to happen and that a decision will be taken on how we proceed. So it should not automatically end and we should not automatically fall back on the current situation. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	We do have some sort of dialogue. I think I am the third speaker and you can interrupt me. I think we also agree on the interpretation as I just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	No, I don't agree. I don't think this is right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Maybe it's a good thing Mrs Bergkamp finishes her sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	... with the exception of one thing, and that is what we can also ask the rulers, I think, about when a decision will be taken. And I get that. You're not going to evaluate for nothing. You want the sitting cabinet to make a decision and then you want a debate as a Chamber. So I get this, and I share that question. So it's good to see how the rulers answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yes. Well, Madam President, you will also be pleased, because I can leave out a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	In any case, the crux is that I want a decision to be taken and that it is recorded somewhere that there will be a decision, so that we do not suddenly return to the situation before the experiment, without having really decided on it. Mr. Chairman. According to the bill, a maximum of ten growers will do the sub-contracting. In all likelihood, a plurality of these producers will then start to apply as candidates. In that case, the Minister eventually provides for a draw. I think this is unwise. In theory, it can lead to the appointment of only ten cashiers, while different types of cultivation are important for diversity. Isn't there another selection in which quality comes first or in which a consumer panel or coffee shops can play a role? That is my question to the Minister. Moreover, the consumer panel has not yet been decided on. I read in the documents that the Minister was not yet fully aware of this, but in principle he was sympathetic to the wishes of various organizations. My question to the Minister would therefore be: is there now white smoke? Because such a panel seems GroenLinks a good idea. When is the experiment a success? What is the Minister's measure? Is the experiment a success if there is a reduction in crime and improvement in public health or is it a success if there is no deterioration? The Knottnerus Committee states the latter. How does the Minister see that? I think there is still too little clarity about when there is success. Because of the limited design, the prevention of deterioration will be a huge problem, because at the moment about 50% of cannabis users buy the products elsewhere than in a coffee shop. There is a serious risk that this black market will increase if coffee shops become less attractive due to a more limited offer or an overdose of good advice on sensible use. The chance of customers entering the black market is greater when there is a big bang. It is better to phase in slowly, to have the legally produced products on the shelves alongside the illegal ones and to slowly take them out within a reasonable period of time. That also gives the customers a chance to get used to it. Does the Minister recognise the benefits of phasing in and the real risks of a big bang? It is foreseen that growers supply only to coffee shops in the selected municipalities. I know it's crazy, but I'd like to ask the Minister if it's possible that suppliers can also supply other coffee shops in non-participating municipalities. Of course, this can only be done under very strict conditions, such as coffeeshops in the experiment. Their effects will not be relevant to the investigation. But how good would it be if coffee shops could get their stuff involved in legal, bona fide growers and cut the ties with illegal networks? So the experiment remains on its own, but the growers who have been selected could then deliver to other coffee shops in other municipalities that have to meet conditions to prevent the weed from leaking everywhere, but you still have a legal supply there. In my view, that would be an important and good side effect. Finally, another issue which concerns at least the border municipalities and which should be dealt with in the AMvB but which I find important to mention here, and that is the resident criterion. A number of municipalities have abandoned this criterion in recent years. It caused too much nuisance on the street and a very lively street trade. I read the bill in such a way that local customization is no longer possible. Has the Minister discussed this with the VNG and how does he look at the possibilities for desired local tailor-made work? When GroenLinks first heard about the weed experiment we were moderately enthusiastic. We were very sorry that the Bergkamp/Berndsen bill would not be defended in the Upper House for the time being, but it was at least a small step. In many countries around us much bigger steps are being taken, but you also have to cherish small steps. When we got the results, we were worried. Because we were wondering whether the experiment was intended to succeed or whether it was intended to help the coalition through these years. I very much hope that the design is not very solid and that there is room for improvement, because that is what my group believes is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start positively: the SP is pleased that there will be an experiment to see how weed cultivation can be regulated. The sale of weed has been tolerated for years, but the cultivation of weed is punishable. What goes out through the front door at the coffee shop is tolerated, but what is brought in through the back door to the coffee shops is illegal. This somewhat schizophrenic approach to the coffee shop chain is of no benefit to anyone, so it is good that we finally say: we are going to experiment with another system whereby we regulate the whole chain in the interests of public health and in the interests of the fight against crime. The advantage of regulating that whole chain is that you can follow the entire path from plant to user and therefore also monitor the quality of the product for example. This can therefore benefit public health. Coffee shop owners, growers, municipalities; almost all were happy when they first heard that experiments were going to be carried out. But unfortunately there is little left of that original positivity. And that is worrying, or rather, mortal sin. Many municipalities, such as Rotterdam, Breda, Leeuwarden, Nijmegen, Eindhoven and Groningen, but also more, indicate that with the current conditions that are put to the test, they don't actually see anything in that test anymore. The Council of State openly doubts whether the experiment with legalized weed cultivation by municipalities in its current size and with its current duration leads to useful conclusions. According to the Advisory Section of the Council of State, more participants are needed and the experiment should run longer in order to draw reliable conclusions at the end. Among other things, Telers see nothing in a maximation and raffle of permits. Coffeeshops are opposed to compulsory participation in the experiment and prefer a phased introduction of regulated weed and hashish, so that it can be measured to what extent the regulated offer is in line with the consumer rather than being switched from one day to a pure sale of regulated weed. And, for example, Professor Fijnaut has even stated that the experiment is pointless if it remains small-scale. With the current conditions, the experiment cannot succeed, all these parties say. And to be quite honest, the SP shares the concerns of all those parties mentioned above and is also afraid that the experiment is doomed to failure by its present form. And that would be very, very unfortunate. So we should not accept that either. The SP would like the experiment to be a success. I also want us to do everything we can. Surely we all want to find out if a more sensible way of dealing with soft drugs is possible? The key question I have to ask both ministers is: do they really want it to be a success in their hearts? Maybe that's a question of conscience. But if the answer is that they want it to be a success, rather than ensuring it, why is it not better to listen to the concerns of the coffeeshop communities, for example, in coffeeshops, for example, in growers and consumers? Why isn't it better listened to when they want the experiment to be a success? The independent advisory committee Knottnerus saw opportunities for a successful trial, but the plans had to be changed. Part of it happened. For example, there is no longer a maximum number of different varieties of weed and hash. However, the cabinet does choose to stick to the maximum number of ten municipalities and ten growers, while the Knottnerus Committee also advocates a larger test. The cabinet maintains the view that the scale of the test, as it suggests, is large enough to see results. But what does the cabinet base this on? Stakeholders and scholars say, "Make the experiment bigger." The cabinet stands by this by saying that it feels that the experiment does not need to be bigger to achieve results. That's not an argument, it's an opinion. What exactly does that opinion come from? Why stick so stubbornly to the maximum number of ten municipalities? The Association of Dutch Municipalities has also announced the maximum number of participating municipalities mentioned in this bill as a missed opportunity and as premature. The Knottnerus Consultative Commission also said sensible things about this. Maybe the number of ten is enough, but maybe it isn't. That's gonna have to prove it. That is why we must at least not now lay down this number of up to ten municipalities in the law, because then it is closed, and then it is stuck. Then we can no longer decide until, for example, eleven, if there are good reasons. That is why I have tabled a modest amendment. It deletes a number of words and only then will it decide how many municipalities it should actually become. So the amendment removes the maximum number of 10 municipalities from the law and later we decide exactly how many municipalities it should be. That is the amendment to item No. 8. I do not think we can escape the risk of thinking about when the experiment can be regarded as a success. The Knottnerus Committee warns against too high expectations. It is not realistic for this limited experiment to be able to identify long-term health effects or effects on total crime. That's just not gonna work. The advisory committee says: The Committee considers the experiment to be successful if it succeeds in achieving a well-functioning closed cannabis chain without negative effects. According to the committee. Can both ministers support this approach today? The advisory committee also explicitly states that if a successful experiment is to be carried out, it will not be phased out. This was also the subject of the debate between Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Buitenweg. But the law now states that the experiment will be completed unless. So there's just gonna be a burndown, unless. I do not think that is the right starting point. We're giving it a fair chance, even if we're from a party that doesn't really like it. We're doing everything we can to make it a success. We have an independent, honest evaluation and then we see what we have to do. Since I think the law on this point is too negative, I have tabled a second amendment. That is the proposal in part No. 10. What exactly are the conditions for the interim adjustment of the experiment, in the view of the Ministers, if circumstances so require? To what extent is that possible? That too is a question that lives with my group. Among other things, the Knottnerus Committee advocated releasing the uniformity of the experiment in all municipalities. There must be room for differences, as we have them now. But that space is not provided in the concept-general measure of governance. Why not? According to the SP, customization can really be needed. Not one municipality is equal to another. For example, we are looking at the resident criterion. Can I ask the Ministers once again to leave the retention of the resident criterion to the municipalities? We have seen the misery caused by the introduction of the weed pass at the time: an increase in street trade and nuisance. We don't want to go back there, do we? So if we want to avoid this misery, both ministers would do well to abandon that mandatory maintenance of that resident criterion. To make this experiment a success, we need the coffeeshops. These are the points of sale. There's the knowledge and experience. The most important objection, Mr President, and I understand that objection from those coffeeshops is that there is a choice for that abrupt transition. Mrs Buitenweg also spoke about this. Pats boom from one day to the next we go from an illegal offer to a regulated offer. It can't be. Telers need time to grow products that match the needs of consumers. And why not give coffeeshops that space to a phased introduction and force them to replace their total range in one day? If you change the offer from one day to the next, consumers may turn to the black market. Cannabis Connect, the national coffeeshop dome, says exactly: instead of a limited experiment in a few municipalities, every coffeeshop in the Netherlands should have the opportunity to add new, regulated products to their existing range. Smart plans have been written for that, too. We've seen all kinds of timelines. The question to the Minister is: why should we not do that? This also allows you to measure the extent to which the regulated offer is in line with the needs of the consumer. It allows legal growers to adapt their supply to demand, so that regulated supply can gradually express illegal supply on the market and can still be adjusted in good time when undesirable effects occur. Actually, it makes sense. Why doesn't the Cabinet choose this? Otherwise, you also force coffee shop entrepreneurs to take a big financial risk. They have to hope that authorised growers are able to grow stuff that starts from day one. If they don't, they're gonna have a huge problem. Then we all actually have a huge problem. So why not opt for that graduality? And why not also opt for an open licensing system for growers? In any case, the proposed draw should be deleted, and that is the least we have to agree on today.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I find it really strange that we would allow fate to determine which party will grow in the Netherlands. Come on. Should we not actually require potential growers to be Dutch companies or residents? Do we want to prevent large foreign investors from expanding this apparently lucrative market? Do we want to prevent that or not? And how do we deal with the mandatory statement of behaviour? I think it's fair to ask for a vog, but wouldn't it be strange if cannabis-related facts were thrown against it? As a result of this experiment, it is no longer illegal to grow. But then we must ensure that the entrepreneurs involved are not obstructed, for example by banks that refuse their account number because the word "cannabis" falls somewhere in the documents. How are we going to take care of this, I ask the ministers. Some people benefit from cannabis because they are sick and in pain. In 2017, an amendment by GroenLinks was adopted that makes home-grown medical cannabis nationwide possible, under strict conditions. By the way, that was an amendment to Mrs Bergkamp's initiative law of D66, but the amendment was from GroenLinks. I would ask the Minister to take a closer look at this. How are we gonna handle this? How can we do justice to this rightful proposal? And, for example, can we look at the experiences of the municipality of Tilburg with this? That seems to me to be an excellent example. It's been mentioned before. Then I'm gonna go into the coffeeshops. Wouldn't it be better for employees in the coffee shop to have the product packed in the quantity desired by the consumer? This repacked cannabis can be provided with the desired Track & Trace codes and product information. The point is that consumers can also see, feel and smell the product before they buy it. I think that's important with a product like cannabis. The government does say that a limited amount of hemp and hashish may be present separately for this purpose, but is that enough? What about, for example, pre-set joints? Can they still be sold? And what are the possibilities for cannabis products without tobacco? This is entirely in line with the aim of reducing tobacco consumption. What room is there for that? Maybe that's an interesting question for the Minister of Medical Care. If I understand correctly, more attention will be paid to information and prevention. The SP only welcomes that. But I do hope that this will apply to all coffee shops, not just the municipalities and coffee shops that participate in this experiment. Can the Minister confirm that? Surely it is important in all municipalities for coffee shop customers to be properly informed about the risks associated with the use of weed and for signals of problematic use to be referred to information or care? I'd like a comment on that, too. Once again, and in conclusion. It's a good thing there's going to be an experiment. The SP would have preferred to move on. It is not for nothing that we gave our wholehearted support to the D66 initiative law last year, but unfortunately it is not being continued. But if an experiment is the best we can do, let's do it right. Because if we accept in advance that it is doomed to fail because municipalities and coffee shops are already pulling off and developing resistance, then we are not doing very well. The SP doesn't want us to allow this experiment to fail for political reasons. Hopefully, therefore, the proposals that I and others will make will be taken seriously today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr President. If it had been up to D66, we would now be regulating the cultivation of weed nationwide. Let's be clear about that. And our initiative law, which has been referred to a number of times, is patiently waiting in the Upper House. The reality is that there is no majority in the First Chamber. This law is too important for D66 to vote away. In addition, the cabinet has agreed to do experiments with the regulation of weed. I am glad that very different parties have come to that, that they have come up with this plan anyway. We are finally going to stop talking, at least: I honestly think we are going to talk a lot about this subject, but at least we are going to gain experience in growing weed and regulating it. It gives the opportunity to test the D66 initiative law on the closed coffeeshop chain largely in six to ten medium-sized municipalities. My main motivation remains public health. There are about 500,000 people in the Netherlands who smoke cannabis, but no one knows exactly what's in the joint. It's actually the only product sold in the Netherlands that you don't know what's in it. It's the only product in which you have the schizophrenic situation that you can sell it but can't transport it. This has led to risks to public health and also to crime. We're trying to get the ghost back in the bottle. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the law that makes the experiment possible, but a decision, a general measure of governance, has also been submitted for consultation. In my contribution, I will also focus on this. Mr. Chairman. After decades of tolerance, buttons will have to be cut to prepare Dutch soft drugs policy for the future. That's not gonna go without a fight. We're on the verge of a huge change. The coverage of the weed experiment has not been very positive over the past period. Nor should we be naive: there are major financial interests here that prevail more than health and safety in some parties. In addition, there are many questions, including those of my group, which we expect the experiment to answer. Even though D66's initiative law would have been adopted by the Upper Chamber, the questions that now arise are questions that will also arise in national regulation. In addition, I also see a number of persistent ghost stories about, for example, phasing out, but I also see possibilities to improve the conditions of the experiment. We also understand a number of concerns about mayors and coffee shops. I'm gonna go into that in detail later. I would also like to make a number of proposals. Mr. Chairman. Above all, we have the opportunity to make this a success. So let's grab it with both hands, because it might not be perfect yet. It's also an experiment. We have been listening, as my colleague Van Nispen has just said. There must be a representative offer. There will be no maximum when it comes to THC and CBD. There is no automatic phasing-out to the current situation, as it seemed. The market determines the price. There may be 5 grams of each species present in the coffee shop to try out. Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time the Netherlands was ahead of the troops when it came to dealing wisely with soft drugs policy, but now several countries are trying to get past us. D66 of course finds that a pity and also a missed opportunity, but it also offers advantages. I have to say that when I heard the news that will regulate Luxembourg, I thought for a moment: damn it, why is it taking so long in the Netherlands? Anyway, we're in this situation. Countries such as Canada and Luxembourg are now going to gain experience and we can also learn from it. It can also be very valuable not to have to invent the egg. Are the directors prepared to monitor international developments closely, to cooperate and, where possible, to learn from such cooperation and to inform the Court of Justice about it? Mr. Chairman. I will deal with a number of points of interest. The colleagues Van Nispen and Buitenweg mentioned the clean sweep. As the experiment is now presented, coffeeshops in participating municipalities, as well as growers, would face a big bang. Coffeeshops have to switch from one day to 100% regulated offer, and so do their customers. There is no room to fine tune, anticipate or adjust. For convenience, take the example of a clothing store. From one day to the next, all your clothes go out and the next day you get new clothes. You don't know what kind of clothing it is, what brand of clothing it is and how your customers will react to it. We wouldn't do that to a clothing store. So I think it is really an essential point to consider whether there should be the possibility, during the preparatory phase, of continuing to sell the current offer in addition to the regulated offer. I do believe that this should be at the preparatory stage, because you must have a formal point where we move to 100% regulated supply. I'm considering a motion on this point. I'd like a response from the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mrs. Bergkamp, we had to invent the egg, but it's: invent the wheel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yeah, that's right. Invent the wheel. That's because an egg was the most viewed image on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	That's why that egg is in my system, but you're absolutely right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	That would solve another big problem, namely: what was there earlier, the chicken or the egg? Because the egg is then invented. Well, then we've solved that, too. The phase-out is indeed a very important point. D66 says that such a big bang is actually unwise, but that an inphase should be in the first part of the experiment. Is there enough time for that? How much cultivation do you have? Have you given any thought to how long that phase could last?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	If I could answer the question of how much cultivation there is, that would be very, very handsome. I am well aware of what is happening at the moment, but I do not know which growers are being selected, what is their offer, which municipalities are being selected and how many coffee shops are in it. These are all key factors that ultimately need to clarify what is needed and how much time is needed for that preparation phase including testing. But I appreciate Mrs Buitenweg's question about that. Before you start an experiment, the frameworks need to be clear. What effects can be measured and which cannot be measured? How are the effects on public health, crime, nuisance and insecurity measured? We need to be clear about this in advance so that we do not discuss it later on in the evaluation. I do not want the VVD to say: yes, that is not included, so now we cannot reach a decision. I'd be very sorry to hear that. I believe that we, as a Chamber, should now clearly determine this on the basis of the information, including from the directors. What can be measured and what can't be measured? The next point I would like to clarify is how the evaluation distinguishes between the impact of the requirements of the experiment and what is relevant to regulate nationally. For example, putting too many demands on the experiment could counter-productively work. Looking at the effects, for example, this could lead to more nuisance. That's gotta be sharp. When is something a side effect, a negative side effect due to the design of the experiment and when not? Results must be clean. What role does the evaluation committee play in this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The aim of an experiment is to learn as much as possible and to gain experience. Is mid-term evaluation and adjustment possible and, if so, how? This may be necessary, for example, if it appears that the pressure difference between the experiment and the tolerated market is too large, resulting in negative side effects. For example, how do you prevent the waterbed effect from being distorted by the experiment in the evaluation? How do you guarantee this in a good scientific framework? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then prevention and the user. As far as D66 is concerned, prevention measures should be evidence-based, which is also agreed in the coalition agreement and aimed at problematic use. Prevention is, of course, something other than patronizing. For the sake of clarity, I would also like to refer to the sensible comments made by the Stichting Vakbaardheid Cannabis Keten (SVCK) on information and packaging in a response to the consultation. These are sensible advices to see how to ensure good prevention and information aimed at consumers. Furthermore, we also consider it important that the experiences of the users who will gain experience with the cannabis offered are carefully investigated throughout the experiment. We can also learn from this in the preparatory phase. Does the regulated cannabis match the needs of the users? Are they satisfied with the quality? Is the labelling clear enough? We must not lose sight of the consumer. It would therefore be good to periodically monitor the behaviour and wishes of consumers. Are the rulers planning to do that and, if so, how are they going to do that? I'm considering a motion on this point. Then about the growers. It is important that there is sufficient diversity, quality and continuous supply of cannabis that meets the wishes and trust of consumers and the coffeeshops that participate in the experiment in good time. I do have some concerns and questions about this. Selecting and cloning a good mother plant takes years. Those days aren't within the experiment. Then how do growers get the right genetics? Where did they get those seeds and cuttings? Have you thought about this? What is allowed and what is not allowed, and how does it relate to planning? In order to ensure that potential growers are informed, D66 would like the selection requirements to include the cultivation plan. I'd like a response. It is also important that there is room in the experiment for different cultivation systems. You've got the indoors and you've got the greenhouses. Existing genetics are largely focused on indoor cultivation. How do we deal with that? As you can see, I've been involved and working on this subject for a while now, given my questions. Our starting point is to see how we can improve the experiment. These are very important things, even from the field itself. My question is: why is the number of permits to grow limited? Can this not lead to problems in practice, because you can steer less or because you do not actually offer opportunities to small growers? Is the coffee shop sector also involved in the selection of growers? Then what happens to growers who cannot deliver the right product or whose product is not working? Is it then possible to replace producers in the meantime? Can new or additional permits be granted? And have I understood correctly that coffee shops can buy their goods from several growers and that growers can also supply them to several coffee shops? As a coffee shop owner, can you also participate in the tender to grow? How is the quality of the product tested? Hopefully this will be done by an independent auditor. Mr Van Nispen also asked about the following. There's a lot of coffeeshops selling pre-set joints right now. Can the coffee shop, in consultation with the grower, also demand that they have prepacked and pre-wrapped joints? This was my cup about the growers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	A little bit back in her speech, Mrs Bergkamp said: these are very important conditions and questions for me. We share that. These are essential points which I believe are even important in order to make this test a success. Does Mrs Bergkamp share the concerns of the SP that if we do not change the way the plans are now, the chances are very high that this experiment is doomed to failure? How much confidence does she have in the generous execution of an experiment with the real will to make it a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	That is what I wanted to end my speech, but I can do it now. The two directors have indicated that they are responsible for a good experiment, which is useful and on which political decision-making can be based. That's the deal we made with each other, and that's what I'm gonna keep with the two rulers. When I look at what has happened in the past period and at the examples I mentioned on the basis of which it appears to me that there has been a good listen, I see this debate as an appeal to include some serious concerns and questions that live in municipalities and coffee shops. The VNG started out pretty positive but then turned negative. We recently received a letter from the VNG which is very positive-critical. There's one point in it. I'm just saying "chapeau!" to the rulers, who have put time and effort into it. Is that what you're worried about? No, because we still have a debate and a decision. I think the transitional period is very important, but I would like to give the directors the opportunity to see if the ideas we have are possible and how they relate to safety and nuisance. There's still conversations going on. That is what I want to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	Let that one point of the VNG be very important, namely a maximum number of municipalities. The VNG is very concerned about this, so it would be good if D66 were to support the SP amendment on that point. In D66, of course, I taste the real will to make this a success. But if nothing changes, D66 is very concerned if it can be a success. All these serious objections are not mentioned by Mrs Bergkamp for nothing and we are not even finished with them. That's why I have a question. I would like to mention, for example, the point of the clean sweep. Why not a gradual transition to a regulated supply? That is a very important point for me too. What if it doesn't change anything and the CDA and the VVD say today: "We're not going along with that. That's not how we do it. We're just going from one day to the next, bang-boom, from an unregulated offer to a regulated offer"? Are we going to see that this experiment is going to fail, or is Mrs Bergkamp going to support the proposals that are going to steer the experiment positively in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	It's kind of weird to anticipate all kinds of scenarios we just haven't talked about yet. I'm working on my input. We have this debate, there will be a reaction from the directors and there is also a general measure of governance. What I consider to be the most important thing, and that is what I also like about the two directors, is that there will be a good experiment. Of course, it is important that there is sufficient support and that there are sufficient municipalities and coffee shops involved. We have even demanded that all coffee shops should participate in order to avoid competition within a municipality. This debate is intended to express a number of concerns. I also have a number of points. The transitional period is really an important point for us, but I would also like to give the rulers the opportunity to respond to it, to indicate what they are doing with it and what is needed for it. Again, you and I are doing our job. But the directors also have talks with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the municipalities and the coffee shops. They have that integral picture. I also want to know how our story relates to the experience of the rulers. The aim is to make this a success. I think we should assume that, too. If the situation changes, we have a new debate, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	For D66 this is a very important point from the election programme and a very important point that D66 has been given in the chapter of the government agreement. It is a very important point. Then it's not so crazy to ask what happens if nothing changes about this. You're genuinely concerned. I can tell. If it doesn't change anything, how does D66 feel about that? Does D66 accept that the experiment, perhaps for political reasons by non-willers, will not be successful? Has there been any prior contact, for example, about the desire for graduality? Let me ask you a very specific question. Does Mrs Bergkamp have the idea that the minister will go along with that, or does she say it won't work, because the VVD and the CDA don't want it to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	That's a lot of questions in one. It is important that we use this debate to vent our concerns and questions. It is important that we have a debate on this and that the rulers can respond to it. I think that is the most important thing of the debate. If we are going to anticipate it now by saying 'if that and that', it will be a very strange way of debating it. We want to make this a success, absolutely. And I think a lot has already happened. I just indicated that the VNG is now positive-critical. I've just kept a story: you can see that the rulers are firmly in it. There's been a lot of conversations. I'm getting it back. I also hear from the coffee shop sector that people are listening. Of course, I think everything must be done to make it a success. I'll hold both regiments to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	It's kind of like I'm back at the department at the university. We try to look very closely at this scientific experiment. I think that in many countries, such as Luxembourg and Canada, it was eventually decided to roll it out. Once in a while, too, there will be a run-in to something that will gradually lead to changes. Ultimately, in a country where a lot of diversity is very difficult to regulate something that is so small-scale in an experiment, that you get exactly the right result. I would just like to say that the experiment in this sense is also something we are going to deal with. Maybe it's going to teach us a little bit more, but I think we should be honest about the fact that it's also a political intermediate step, because a bigger step wasn't possible yet. I think that Mrs Bergkamp is honest about the fact that the big step has not yet been possible and that it can be a small step, but also partly a sweetener. But let's make the sweetener positive. I have heard the great criteria that she lays down, also with regard to the clean sweep. I think this is the time for the debate. The question is: what if it doesn't? I know that in reply to Mr Van Nispen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u33	This is quite an argument, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u34	I want to hear it from D66 anyway. If there's a clean sweep, does D66 have faith in this experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u35	That is actually the same question as Mr Van Nispen just asked, so my answer remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u36	But the answer is not justified in substance. The answer is, "We're gonna see it. The minister's gonna talk. Then we'll come in second term. Then we have time for motions." But that's it. This is the moment we talk about it. The SP asked a question and I asked a question to D66 about the subject that D66 considers so important: the clean sweep, which we should not have. If there is, does D66 have sufficient confidence in this experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u37	As I have just said, it is a brief summary of my response to Mr Van Nispen's interruption. This is an important point for us. However, I have also indicated that I would like to hear how they see this, after the talks they have had. It seems logical to me that you should let the coffee shop sector and consumers get used to it. I assume this is part of the preparatory phase. But I also think it is important to hear how the rulers see that after their talks with municipalities, with the police and with other entities. That is what the debate is for, because we are not only having a debate with each other, but also with the rulers. Seems like a logical story to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u38	Before you go any further, here's what I'm gonna do. I keep hearing messages coming in to the Minister of Justice and Security. I would ask the Minister of Justice and Security to stop or shake the phone. Yesterday I seized Mr Van Rooijen's phone. I don't know if I want the Minister of Justice's phone. Then you know that. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go to the coffeeshops. I have some questions about transportation, stock management and storage. It's nice to be able to deviate from that 500 gram supply. However, stock may only be kept in the coffee shop, in a safe or with the grower. Many entrepreneurs are concerned about safety in the presence of such a stock in the store. Would it be possible to store the stock in a further place to prevent robbery? Why can't you have, in good consultation, multiple stash sites that can be maintained and whose location could be known and controlled by the government? Would it be possible to give coffee shops and growers the space to build in flexibility in delivery and transport, and a little less flashy than when such a safety van is in front of the coffee shop at some point? That's what we're worried about. Maybe the coffee shop can do the transport on its own? Mr. Chairman. Then enforcement and the municipalities. Municipalities wishing to participate will incur costs of preparing, adapting the regulatory framework and the enforcement framework, and providing information. How is these costs dealt with in practice? I'm watching the Empire, too. What is the role-sharing of security? Where is the responsibility of the government and the local government, and of the grower and the coffee shop? The law talks about the use of supervisors. How is this role fulfilled and from what level of government? And what are the rules around the resident criterion? I notice that there is a lot of noise on the line on this subject. Finally, under this heading. All coffee shops in the participating municipalities must participate in the experiment. That seems logical to me, also in view of the competition that may otherwise exist within municipalities. It's very difficult to measure all that. But is there an exit plan for the coffee shops that do not want to participate in the municipalities that do? How is it handled with the non-sustainable coffeeshops? And how, for example, is the costs associated with this being dealt with? How we deal with it is an important topic for the mayors I've been in touch with. These are mayors who would like to participate, but there are a number of coffee shops that may not want to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u40	I have a very short question. What does D66 want with the resident criterion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u41	What we want, we agreed in the coalition agreement. That's very clear. When it comes to border municipalities, the resident criterion is maintained. When it comes to non-border municipalities, it's local customization. That is what we agreed in the coalition agreement. I also share Mr Van Nispen's view that many municipalities are not at all happy with this criterion. That's the other side. That's often what causes the right nuisance. But at least this is what we agreed in the coalition agreement. Our signature's underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u42	I understand. I know that signature. But then D66 agrees to the compulsory maintenance of the resident criterion in border municipalities, with all the adverse consequences and increasing nuisances?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u43	It is also a question of mine how we deal with it, but that is the agreement we made in the coalition agreement. If there are problems and nuisances, I am of course curious as to how the rulers react, because what I think we all share is that we are not waiting for trouble and all that. So I am also curious about the reaction of the rulers to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr. Chairman. We are looking forward to seeing that I have indicated that there will be a transitional period, that the quality and diversity of growers will be taken into account and that the user will not be forgotten. These are important factors for us. I sincerely hope, too, that I will say this in connection with the small-scale debate with Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen, that the rulers really take this to heart. Both directors are responsible for a valuable experiment that leads to statements that provide sufficient information on a scientific basis to base political decision-making, they write themselves, and of course to ensure that there is sufficient support for municipalities and coffee shops. We're gonna keep following them very closely. Finally, Mr President. For D66 it is not the question whether the Netherlands will eventually move towards a closed coffeeshop chain, but to what extent. We now have the opportunity to explore how to regulate a closed coffeeshop chain, how to give that form and content and how to learn from the outcomes. I look forward to it, and I thank the two directors for their commitment and their answers to the questions asked. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have said it in various debates, and I repeat it again today: the PVV is against regulation of cannabis. First of all, I refer to the still relevant report of the Van de Donk Committee entitled No doors but actions. It concludes that in the world of the cannabis trade, coffee shops have only become a modest part. The cultivation and related crime are virtually autonomous. The production is largely disposed of outside the production area and traded outside the coffee shop in order to go home or abroad. According to the Committee, this has only a very modest impact on the production of cannabis and the related organised crime, of which we now know the extent. Mr. Chairman. This hasn't changed at all. Nevertheless, almost four years later, we are on the eve of an experiment. Today we are discussing the so-called Wet experiment closed coffeeshop chain. In view of my introductory remarks, I can be very brief about this: the PVV is completely opposed. The policy of tolerance is bankrupt. Instead of taking lessons, the government goes even further along this path by producing or having produced a product prohibited by law. That alone is fundamentally incorrect. How hypocritical can the government be? Who doesn't know the government campaign "NIX18"? The website of the government says literally: "NIX18 focuses on supporting, strengthening and promoting the social standard 'no drinking and smoking until you are 18'." Although one of the accepted criteria is that soft drugs should not be sold to minors, we all know better. All I have to do is refer to the website of the Brave Mothers Foundation to see that it doesn't happen at all. They're all parents and they call themselves, how sad, experience experts on addicted children. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of the debate, let me also mention a few substantive reasons in addition to the principle that the government should not be guilty of contradictory behaviour by circumventing its own laws. Firstly, the demand for soft drugs is far too high and there is a lot of money to be made. Producing pot under state flag doesn't change that at all. Only the offer gets bigger. Secondly, most of the soft drugs produced by criminals go abroad. Thirdly, the government must discourage drug use. The experiment at least gives the impression that a joint is not a problem in time, while it has been scientifically shown that young people who start smoking are largely switching to hard drugs over time. My final reason for this is that the state weed must of course be of good quality. That makes sure it's wanted. Then you can put money on these state plantations that I'll just call them a joke, if it wasn't so serious, if it wasn't going to be a criminal target. Then the police can go back and fix it. It is not for nothing that the police advises to lay down site-related security with growers and coffee shop owners through the use of private security. It may also be that the state weed has such a low THC content that no shop wants it, because the customers are going to walk. In fact, no one is positive about this experiment. We all know that, having heard the many questions that have just been asked. It's doomed to fail. In a debate on 6 March 2008, almost 11 years ago, the PVV pointed out the consequences of the past 30 years. For 30 years young people have grown up thinking that soft drug use is not such a problem, because the government does not act against it. For 30 years, parents have been able to live in fear with the idea that their children could and could come into contact with drugs. I already referred to the Brave Mothers Foundation. And for 30 years, the tolerated sale of soft drugs has spread all over our country with all the consequences. The bitter fruits of it are plucked to this day. Let us therefore declare that policy of tolerance bankrupt. It has now been able to prove itself for 40 years around 1976. THC levels in soft drugs have increased considerably. It was 0.4% in 1976, and 18% in 2016. You can't even talk about soft drugs now, can you? The addictive effect has thus become many times higher and organized crime earns bake with money in the cultivation and trade in this mess. I told you, the experiment isn't gonna change that. For that "improving" there has been a chance for 40 years. In order to give the local citizen a place for his joint, it has become a criminal earning model in which innocent citizens pay the price. Let us now begin with a new 40 years, with a coordinated, intensive and, above all, sustained repressive approach. Combine this with a policy of discouragement by the government rather than this contradictory behaviour, so that it is clear to everyone, especially for young people, that drugs can have serious consequences for life ahead. It won't be easy, but better late than never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2015, an administrative working group of the VNG concluded that the tolerance policy in its current form is unworkable and undesirable. The failure of the policy of tolerance is a widely heard statement, which I have heard here in Mrs Helder's fine contribution. The failure of the tolerance policy is, of course, motivated by the major problems we have with drug crime, which the Netherlands faces every day. There is a loud cry from all sides to stop that back door from being so shadowy and to be clear, because that shadowiness would cause problems and because criminal organisations can benefit from it in the meantime. Trade in cannabis, as Mrs Helder rightly pointed out, has become a very lucrative business, often accompanied by trade in other drugs, such as ecstasy or cocaine, and undermining crime. There has been a lot of debate on this issue here in the Chamber. It is clear that feelings about solutions vary greatly here in the Chamber. Everyone knows that the CDA believes that a tough approach could be effective if it is carried out without the ambiguity of a back door through the tolerance of sales. We have therefore with suffering eyes since how a few small coffee shops that had been set up years ago have now turned into department stores that do not know what they are like. I have often said in a debate that it is about the only department store in the Netherlands that can still grow. There has been some sort of collective powerlessness to really limit what is happening. That's what's bothering us now. We can even see the courts bowing down, because things that are really not allowed, for example large trading stocks to supply crops from the coffers, can hardly be sanctioned effectively. In addition, an appalling normalization of use in our country has given us the reputation of a narcostate. From far and wide, people come to the Netherlands to lavate themselves to our narcotics. Some even rejoice that the Netherlands is a guide country. We would have preferred that label on our education and our care. Mr. Chairman. You know our position and that has not changed. We are horrified at the use of drugs, including so-called soft drugs. It must never become normal. It helps people, especially young people, completely destroy them. And yes, just smoking is also bad and alcohol is also very harmful and is therefore discouraged, but its use can never be an argument to say: let us then approve of drugs. Mr. Chairman. It is also well known that we would have preferred not to continue on the path of facilitating drug use. In the end, we would like to go to the closing of all coffee shops, but there is no majority for that. Then we, too, as CDA, have a responsibility to take on. That is the responsibility that we are taking now, because if we know together that we have coffee shops and that we have to look at how these coffee shops are being supplied, and if we see that this is in the hands of organised crime, you can also think about how we are going to solve it. We are not ready to do that grand and compelling with a proposal that we voted against earlier, but that does not relieve us of the responsibility to see how it should be done. To this end, we need a law that allows us to experiment to see how something that is ultimately just reality in the Netherlands can be organized in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u50	I would like to know from Mrs Van Toorenburg when the experiment is a success for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u51	If, at the end of the period, we have a clear picture of what happened, for example, to the health damage. I see that in Canada all kinds of drugs are taken out of trade because there are very toxic fungi in them. And that's just supposedly legal drugs. That's very harmful for people. They get diseases in their lungs that they'll never get rid of. Let that also be very clear to the young people, who sometimes think that it is all fine. So public health is an important aspect. In addition, it is important to see how crime goes around such a coffee shop. It is very important for us to see how it develops. I realize that's kind of tricky, but how's the crime going at all? The most important thing for us as CDA is that we get a picture of what label our youth in the Netherlands, our future, is sticking to drugs. Are people really going to think: it's normal, it's fine, the government's taking care of it? Or does the youth continue to realize, as fortunately also happens with alcohol: even though it is available, it remains very bad for you? That's a lot of things. Furthermore, a committee is going to evaluate it. The cabinet will undoubtedly say a lot about it. We'll get another AMvB as a room. These are all things from which you can make out: how are we going to look at the effects of a regulated cultivation and supply to existing coffee shops and what do we learn from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u52	Suppose the experiment shows that it is not bad for public health, perhaps even good, and that crime has not increased, perhaps even decreased. Is the CDA willing to agree to regulate or legalize the back door?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u53	If I were to say at this point what outcome I'd like, I'd put some kind of mortgage on an investigation. I think we're all a little surprised about what happened to the WODC, for example. People there see a kind of wishful thinking and then want to meet it. Just stay away from that as politics. If we decide with each other that we are doing an experiment, then we should not anticipate the results. Then we are not saying that we are going to go on with it, which I believe is an amendment from the SP. That's unthinkable to us. At the same time, we don't say you're gonna stop everything if everything was fantastic. I just think it's up to the government afterwards to draw a conclusion. It will always be clear that the CDA continues to shivering from drugs. But as long as there are coffee shops, we need to think about how these are supplied and what is sold there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mrs Buitenweg, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u55	I do not want to take a position in advance. I understand very well that we are experimenting and that we have to wait for the results. But we're not a research facility. The idea is that research leads to something, otherwise it is unethical to keep everyone involved in that all the time. The question is: if there is a positive result, so if it does improve public health and reduce crime, is the CDA prepared to go about regulating the back door of coffeeshops?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u56	I listen very carefully to the question. I got exactly the same question. I refer to the short-term report, which contains my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u57	We have had many debates on drugs. So I know a little about what my colleagues' views are. I have heard Mrs Van Toorenburg say: we also hate drugs and coffeeshops, the CDA prefers not to, but there is no majority for them. I've been looking. The CDA has 19 seats and my party has 20 seats. You'll get to 39. And I know that, at least at the time of those previous debates, the Christian Union and the SGP are not in favour of it either. You'll already have more seats. And with the VVD's, you get to 80. So there is probably no majority within this coalition. But, of course, Mrs Van Toorenburg is free to think: you can also find a majority somewhere else. So I doubt there's a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u58	I think we're gonna fool each other when we say here that we have a majority for closing all the coffee shops. We just don't have one. I think Mrs Helder should ask that question to the VVD. But we all know that there are differences of opinion. Mrs Helder also knows that some mayors think differently within my own party. So just to say that we get everyone on the tables to close the coffeeshops tomorrow... If I had that certainty during the coalition negotiations, it would probably have been in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u59	Now it's very black and white. Nor did I mention that there are 80 seats for the acute closure of coffee shops. I also started with the horror of drugs. There are parties that are almost on the same page when it comes to soft drugs. We hear here about an experiment in which there are so many questions, and so many conditions under which it might succeed, that I find it a bit debatable. The question is whether it will succeed, when it is said that we do not have a majority in favour of closing coffee shops here. But I didn't ask you to. If you have a position on drugs in principle, it is very unfortunate that the CDA says so. It sounds a little easy, because I've heard from the CDA before: if we had 76 seats, we'd shut them all down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u60	But it's true. I can't make it prettier than it is. We have the reality. We even have the reality that we have passed a law here as a Lower House that goes much further. That's just the reality we're dealing with. If you find in a democratic process that there is support for the existence of coffeeshops and then you see major problems with the supply and cultivation of coffees throughout the Netherlands, then I don't find it weird if you, as a political party, take the responsibility to look: how? That's what we do here. We do this in a limited way, yes, because we do want to be able to see how things are going in the end. Because if you say, to stay in that spirit, "let a thousand flowers bloom," then you ultimately have no idea of the developments at all. What are we supposed to be looking for? Can the police handle that enough? If you organize it in such a way that the police can't handle it, then everyone can say: you see, it failed because the police can't say anything about it. Then what can you draw a conclusion from? I think it's important that you do a serious investigation, a serious experiment. We stand for our signatures. We as CDA have always done that. We're not runaways, not even when things get tough. In this case too, we will simply take this step proudly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u61	Finally, Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u62	Yeah, rounding it up. Look, taking responsibility is something other than leaving a basic party position. Those runaways, that's my party. I know that by now, but we had the basic view that we shouldn't be cutting back on the Netherlands. Look what happened during Rutte II. So that's how I like another one. So I understand the responsibility, but if you make "taking responsibility" so broad that you leave a basic position that has just been proved to be substantive drugs are very harmful..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u63	I understand why Mrs Helder would say that, but, once again, when you are dealing with coffee shops, you also want to think about how to take it out of the clutches of organized crime. If that could work, it would be interesting to see how that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr President, I must first correct a factual error in Mrs Van Toorenburg's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u65	Yes, you were addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u66	There is no amendment from the SP that says that the experiment must continue anyway, no matter what comes out of it. But our amendment does change the starting point, because now it says: we stop the experiment, unless. We have reversed that, but we still need an evaluation and a decision. So we need to stick to the facts in this respect. But I actually came here to compliment Mrs Van Toorenburg, namely a compliment for the new pragmatism. I do indeed have a new point of view, and that is very sensible. We have coffee shops and that is why we take the responsibility to look: how? That is what Mrs Van Toorenburg says, and that seems very sensible to me. But I would also like to ask Mrs Van Toorenburg the question of conscience as to whether she still intends to make this experiment a success and create the framework conditions in such a way that we can also really honestly see how best to deal with the reality that Mrs Van Toorenburg herself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u67	Yes. We are a party which, if it makes a choice, also rolls out that choice. So we're in for an experiment. If we're doing an experiment, we're doing a good experiment, which you can actually figure out and learn something from. But then I am not sensitive to all kinds of arguments, for example from the market, to make the experiment as broad, compelling and grand as possible, because I am also concerned about this from a scientific point of view. I therefore welcome the fact that there will be a serious experiment of sufficient size, with sufficient conditions and with a number of very clear guidelines. That's what I'm attached to. That way, we can do an experiment. So I think the conditions, which Mr Van Nispen may find too restrictive from the SP point of view, are very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thanks for the answer, but that raises the follow-up question as to whether there is any room to see if there is any change in the terms of the experiment in the legislative proposal and the draft general measure of governance that is now before us. I am referring, for example, to the serious concerns of your coalition colleague D66. Those are concerns about the clean sweep, changing the offer overnight with all the risks it entails for the concerned entrepreneurs, but also for the possible increase in street trade. Is Mrs Van Toorenburg prepared to see if it is wiser to make a slightly different choice? Or does she say, no, we don't change anything about what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u69	I don't think it's in the AMvB at all. It is not as black and white as Mr Van Nispen says. We'll get that AMvB. That's what they're looking at. I think we should answer that question. I'll get back to you on that. I also see a risk that up to day one you can only sell something that is forbidden, and that from day two you can only sell what you get. I think it would be wise to consider how to ensure that sales could be made sooner than perhaps by the regulated route. I'm also curious how the cabinet looks at that. You'll get a visual on it. Maybe you can get people off other shit. That would be worth a sweet thing to us, too. I think it is important that we also receive advice on this from, for example, the police and the judiciary. I can imagine the Minister's will. I don't think it says anywhere: it's all right, you can't do anything for that. So I think this is fine, because it has not been said for nothing that there will be a preparatory phase. That is the framework law we are actually talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u71	I'm just going to delete two paragraphs, because I think everyone knows how I feel about them. Today, we are mainly discussing the framework law. I indicated in the interrupting debate with Mr Van Nispen that we are not discussing the whole general measure of governance as such. It will come, but of course we do have a few peeks, so I'll say something in that spirit once in a while. We have finally chosen to have an experiment in a limited number of municipalities, including control municipalities. I think it's very important that you take a broad look at what's happening. Of course, everyone is always staring blindly at the municipalities in which the coffee shops are strictly supplied with drugs along the regulated route. But you also want control municipalities. They also play an important role in the experiment. Let it be clear: if a municipality participates, all coffeeshops must participate as far as we are concerned. If there is a municipality that does not have a coffee shop at all, but would like to participate along this road, I am curious what that would mean. That's a whole new situation. What is the possibility? Could something like that be possible? Actually, I don't know. I can't wait to see how the cabinet looks at that. Mr. Chairman. I have just said: if a municipality participates, all coffee shops should participate in the experiment. That is a very important condition, also for the controllability of the experiment. I can see that not everyone is happy with that, but it is perhaps very sensible that the minister of the municipalities should take a break from the dream that there will be some coulance on this point. As far as the CDA is concerned, I have one very important point, the resident criterion, and that will not surprise the Chamber, because it speaks a Brabant. It is a thorn in our eyes that there are already far too many places where they are dealt with half-heartedly. In the end, this has simply fueled drug tourism. Can I hear today from this cabinet that it will be quite clear that municipalities, especially the municipalities in the border regions, will apply the resident criterion and that it will be maintained on it? After all, we know that large quantities of drugs produced in the Netherlands are ultimately destined for foreign countries. We cannot take responsibility for a regulated supplier of drugs abroad. Given our international agreements, it is bad enough that experiments are being carried out in the Netherlands. For example, Belgium is looking at this. Mr. Chairman. The law clearly indicates that there are a number of deadlines within which the experiment must take place, divided into three phases. Then I actually come to a point that has been mentioned before. Mrs Bergkamp has also made this very clear. So how's the preparatory phase going? I think it is important that we really think about this. I like Mrs Bergkamp's comparison with a clothing store. You want to know what you can buy somewhere. Such a case also wants to know what it will sell: how can I prepare my customers, so that there are no surprises about the strength and choices? How can we deal with that? I think this is pretty important. I am therefore curious whether the cabinet can say anything about this. Mr. Chairman. What I think is even more important is that we continue to think about how we can focus on prevention. That must be parallel to the experiment. That's very important, because we're doing this because we don't have a choice. We have coffee shops, so regulate, see what happens and learn from them. At the same time, I will continue to do so, especially if the young people are very interested in debates, and I must say again today that drugs are bad for you. So-called soft drugs are also bad for you. You know that I often talk about my experiences in a youth center, with all those children. I understand that this sound will also sound from the Christian Union. She too has a great deal of heart for children in a vulnerable position that comes into our closed institutions. There's all these kids who say, "ma'am, how is it so bad for you if you can buy it anywhere?" That's what kids know. That's what kids see. Then how do you explain to your parents how bad it is? So prevention is crucial. We need to think about how to ensure that young people in particular know that drugs are not good, just like smoking and alcohol are not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u72	It seems as if the Christian parties are the only ones who mind. However, I think it is important to use this debate again to point out that I agree that the age at coffeeshops is 18-plus. It's gonna stay that way. I'm happy about that. I think that's important, too. D66 also considers prevention to be an important element. It's got to be evidence-based. It's gotta work. That is why I asked the Minister for Medical Care how we can organise prevention in such a way that it helps and is effective. But I share the concerns that Mrs Van Toorenburg occasionally expresses about children who start earlier, often in a problematic context, and about the problem of addiction. So I would like to confirm that this is not just something of the Christian parties, but that this point is also important for D66. That is why we think it is important that we regulate, because that is better. Then we have more brackets to discourage and for prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mrs Van Toorenburg, it was actually a statement by Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u74	Exactly. I can see some kind of resentment coming out of me. I'll tell you the truth. That's mostly because I'm just putting different accents. I have heard Mrs Bergkamp very clearly concerned about whether the coffee shops can handle it all, whether the users are all being served, about all fantastic groups. I don't like it three times. In the end, I find coffeeshops as criminals. They supply drugs to people and they should never do that. No one should be proud of such a profession. It's very simple. My main concern is with all those vulnerable people who end up using drugs. That's where I put the accent. I am quite right to know that Mrs Bergkamp is appalled by this. That's for her to say. But I see very clearly the attention paid to the users and the interests of the coffee shop. I'm just gonna change the accent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'm kind of sorry about this. I started by saying that my main incentive to regulate is public health. That's the main motivation for me. Since we're having a debate about the experiment, I'd like to see how we can have a good experiment. That's what that's all about. My main motivation is that there are about 500,000 people who use cannabis and don't know what they smoke. Mrs Van Toorenburg also mentioned this, with examples from Canada or America. You now have the opportunity to monitor the cultivation for quality, to ensure labelling, so that people know what they smoke. Regulating is the best thing you can do from the point of view of public health. Otherwise, there's the grim street trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u76	I note that I had come to a paragraph on prevention, because I think it is important to emphasise this issue. Then Mrs Bergkamp of D66 jumps up to say that she thinks this is as important as I do. But I have been listening to a speech by D66 in which a lot of concerns were expressed about how coffeeshops are going to do this and how users are going to deal with it. Fine, that's fine. Again, I'm gonna change the accent. That does not mean that I am convinced that it is less important for other people. Just... I'll put the emphasis on it. I'm also looking at Canada. I see what's happening, too. I can see that even the entire stock exchanges are going to be shaken, because everyone only counts richly on drug trafficking. I don't think that's something I think: wow, that's my guide country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u77	Very briefly. I find it very inappropriate to say about entrepreneurs, about coffee shop owners, that they are criminals. I find that uncomfortable. It is a sector that is tolerated and for which there are all kinds of rules, which the government has set out. I find it appalling that they're being thrown out of here like criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u78	I notice it's something people act on. Even if it's tolerated, it's forbidden. If you forbid anything, as far as I'm concerned, it's not allowed. That is what is going on with the practice of crime. That doesn't mean that we shouldn't, because we want to go through with it eventually. That's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u80	I got to the prevention point. I am particularly concerned about when we are going to provide drugs to people with intellectual disabilities, for example. I'd like to ask this cabinet about that. How do we deal with that? Surely it is not possible for the government to become some kind of drug facilitator for people with enormous vulnerability? How's the cabinet looking at that? How is specific attention going to be paid to trying to prevent these people from eventually getting their hands on these drugs and starting to use them? How does information come about this? How does special guidance come about that? That is a very big concern for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u81	From a human point of view, I can very well imagine the concern of the CDA, but I do not quite understand how you would like an answer from the Cabinet on this issue. How do you do that with other things that may be as dangerous or even more dangerous for this vulnerable person? How do you single out this group? And how would the CDA want to protect these people? If you would like to pass that on to the cabinet, I am also very curious about that. I share the concern with you very much, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u82	We often have conversations about, for example, alcohol consumption and smoking in the ggz. That's what special, focused policies are for, because people tend to use a lot of this stuff. The ggz also struggles with how to do that. People with disabilities can be extra sensitive to drugs. Maybe they're even less sensitive to the argument about how bad it is for you. So that will always be a concern. When we look very closely at prevention here, I think we should also name this target group. That is why I would like to hear from the cabinet how we are taking care of this target group, which we all undoubtedly have; I do not hear anything else in any debate to ensure that these people do not get into any more trouble. How can we prevent this from being sold to them and they from getting into trouble? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point I have heard more about, particularly from SP and D66, namely the safety of the places where they are grown and kept and from which they are delivered. The people there could be a huge target. I don't quite know if it's true, maybe it's fake news, but I hear that in certain parts of Canada or elsewhere, the army is being deployed to ensure that the places where they grow are safe. I think that's a concern. I want to know from the cabinet how we're gonna do that. How are we gonna make sure the suppliers are safe and that the transport isn't targeted? Ripdeals, robberies, don't even think about it. We don't want them. How is this going to be organised? Mr President, I will conclude. I like that Mrs Helder also mentioned the Brave Mothers. Unfortunately, this group of people has had to see to it that their children have gone on drugs. Despite all the commitment and effort to prevent it, unfortunately, this happens in many cases. These mothers and also fathers try to bring to our attention every time that their interest must be heard. I know it's already been done, but I'm asking the Cabinet to keep the Brave Mothers very close. Make sure that they are taken into this experiment, just like the sounds they catch and what they struggle with and are doing. They have a wide network, they go to schools, they go everywhere. So also bring their sound. It's an important, valuable group that we owe a great deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that the coffee shop policy as we know it is bankrupt; others have already talked about it. It is no longer small growers who grow a few plants, but it is a billion-dollar business that mainly benefits organised crime. Scientific research, as well as the stories of directors and threats to mayors, reveals the problems associated with the current policy of repression of the back door. Well, there's gotta be a different way. In this policy, too, there is hardly any mention of the adverse effects on public health. I agree with the importance Mrs Bergkamp attaches to this public health and the words she has spoken about it. Already in 2005, MPs Nebahat Albayrak of the Labour Party, Frans Weekers of the VVD and Boris van der Ham of D66 together with CDA mayor Leers argued for a local experiment with regulated weed cultivation. The Maastricht manifesto gained a majority for a moment, but it evaporated again. Too bad, because it would have been an opportunity. In other countries we now see that the regulation of cannabis is a lot further, as in Uruguay, Canada and several states of the United States. Just before the Dutch Parliament elections of 2017, the Netherlands also seemed to be able to take a step. The House of Representatives agreed to the initiative law of colleague Bergkamp, the closed coffeeshop chain. That law proposed the legalised coffeeshop chain as a structural solution and did not require an experiment. In the coalition agreement a different course has been chosen: an experiment has been agreed and that is now before us. Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna be economical about the experiment. It's a first step. It is important that a step is taken. So as far as my group is concerned, the conclusion is that an experiment is better than no step at all. The fact that there will be an experiment shows that the cabinet recognises that the current policy of tolerance is not working in this form. Having said that, I do have a number of questions. It is a good thing that this experiment is coming, but in line with the Knottnerus Committee and the Council of State, the PvdA Group believes that it should be an experiment that has a real, realistic, real chance of success and that it can also be translated into structural legislation in the event of success. First of all, about the chance of success. The experiment for ten municipalities is too limited. That is also what we read in the conclusions of the Knottnerus Committee. That is why the Labour Party supports the SP amendment which removes this maximum of ten municipalities from the law. Then stop the experiment. The PvdA also joins the SP on this point. Mr Bergkamp said sensible words about it and Mr Buitenweg also spoke about it. We would like the experiment to be transformed into regulation, both for public health and in terms of decriminalisation. That possibility is now not enough in the government's bill. It is 'no, no continuation' and we would very much like to go to 'yes, if'. Thank you to Mr Van Nispen, because his amendment provides for this. Then there is my third point, and that is about planning. In the written round of questions, Mr Bergkamp of D66 also asked about this, but the answers of the cabinet did not reassure me at all. If the law is adopted with underlying regulation, the law will enter into force with a preparatory phase first. That's good, of course. That preparatory phase is necessary, let there be no misunderstanding. We also do not want to kneel over the period of that preparatory phase, because it must be done seriously. Everyone, all the parties involved, must be able to prepare for that experiment in a good way. But no maximum duration of that phase has been set. The replies show that that preparatory phase will last at least one year. Maybe I'm too suspicious, and then I'd really like to get pissed off by the Cabinet, but I'm a little nervous that that preparatory phase could become an on-the-long job move of the Cabinet. I very much hope that the cabinet will reassure me. Preparation is needed, careful preparation is needed, but this should not become an alibi for a long haul and a post-on-the-solute posture. I very much hope that the ministers will convince me that this will not be their commitment. Mr. Chairman. My final point is about the municipalities that can participate in the experiment. That is where I ask for the cabinet's flexibility. I'd love to hear the reaction to that. For example, colleagues have already spoken about the criterion of residence. A border municipality such as Venlo looks at this quite differently, given its practice, and that is also legitimate than Maastricht does given its practice. And that's equally legitimate. I'd like a reflection on that from the cabinet. How can it be ensured that the resident criterion helps municipalities instead of becoming a sta-in-the-way for participation? The same applies when it comes to the big four. How can the larger municipalities possibly participate in the experiment? Is there any flexibility there? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answers of the cabinet. I hope that it convinces our group that it wants to tackle this experiment seriously and make it a success, which will really help us. Then I sincerely hope that where there is now a 'no, unless', Mr Van Nispen's amendment can count on the support of the cabinet to make it 'yes, if'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mrs. Helder has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u86	Actually, it's more of a comment. My city of Venlo was cited. Venlo and Maastricht are not comparable. So that they think differently, even though they are border municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u87	Certainly, if there are two people in this Chamber who can know that, those are Mrs Helder and Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u88	That is why I like it just as much for the Acts and say: not so much a question, but more a comment. One of the points was that a very large coffee shop from Venlo was moved towards the German border. Germany was in all states, because it was only a nuisance. We were allowed to keep him, but Germany apparently didn't. That coffee shop owner quit because it was so lucrative that he could retire early. So let's just say that in support of the PVV's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u89	It is a good thing to say something about that. Mrs Helder and I agree: the situation in Venlo, the practice, is really different from that in Maastricht. I paid a visit to that coffee shop in Venlo a few years ago. I also heard from people in Venlo that a change of policy or closing such a coffee shop could lead to more nuisance in the city centre and that they were very afraid of it. I think, apart from our view of the policy of tolerance in general, that Mrs Helder and I very much share the view that both Venlo and Maastricht and all those other cities should watch this experiment and be as flexible as possible in order to avoid nuisance. As far as I am concerned, the existing nuisance should be reduced. I can see that experiment working on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u90	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr. Chairman. The current policy of tolerance that we have in the Netherlands has ensured that the Netherlands, as a gateway to Europe, has a very favourable locational environment for illegal drug trafficking. We have therefore been reaping the bitter fruits of this for many years, in terms of the protection of public health, nuisance, insecurity, organised crime and undermining. The current policy of tolerance therefore has considerable shortcomings in our view. Illegal production and trade create major social and administrative problems. Much of these problems are caused by the tension between the unregulated back door and the tolerated front door. The concerns have only been confirmed in recent years. But unlike a large part of the Chamber, the Christian Union Group does not expect it to be the solution to tolerate and regulate even more. As an example, I mention prostitution policy. Regulation has not led to, for example, a reduction in human trafficking. In fact, it's just increased. Mr. Chairman. Clearly, if it is up to the Christian Union, we need to move away from a policy of tolerance, we need to break radically with that Dutch drug culture, with a clear norm on drugs and adequate government action, and we need to stop talking about soft drugs, because there is no such thing as soft drugs. Many families in the Netherlands have experienced how devastating drug use can be. Young people get in trouble and throw away their future. Adults are trapped in addiction. My group therefore voted against the initiative proposal, which sought to regulate the back door for the whole chain, out of conviction two years ago. The fact that current policies are not sustainable is also clear. A large part of the Chamber chooses a different path from the Christian Union. That, too, is obvious. That also means that today we are talking about the experiment of the closed coffeeshop chain. Clearly, this experiment did not come from the christening of the Christian Union. However, we are interested in the results, because the experiment can provide us with information. And that is the core of the experiment for the Christian Union, not a first step towards a new situation, if you would like to make it more legal, but rather a test set-up, in order to create new knowledge that we can use. The experiment should show whether it is actually possible to have a decriminalised closed coffee shop chain and what effects that has on crime, security, nuisance and public health. Also in response to our questions in the written round, the bill has been amended, so that a maximum duration is set for the extension of the experiment. And that's also included in the bill. The experiment is clearly framed, both in time and in the number of municipalities participating. Can the Minister confirm that these restrictions preclude the emergence of an irreversible situation in terms of size and time? Please confirm that from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The pot sector is intertwined with the underworld. Year by year reports show that our country is a major transit country for drugs and we face the serious consequences of this every day. Crime, undermining and nuisance are the order of the day. Colleague Van Toorenburg already talked about Brabant, but we also know it in Zeeland and Limburg. Can the Minister explain how it is possible to prevent hemp and hashish produced in the experiment from ending up abroad via the illegal circuit? This is also a major concern of the neighbouring countries around us. And can those drugs be prevented from ending up at the coffee shops that are not participating in the experiment? Can the Minister explain how the integrity of growers is being assessed? Can the Minister exclude that a grower will produce both for the experiment and for the illegal market? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the time for the experiment should not be wasted in tackling drug crime. Can the Minister also assure my group that the commitment to tackling drug crime remains unabated? One point that touches on it is safety. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about this. Aren't breeding sites and coffee shops with a weekly supply very attractive to the harsh, organized crime? And where exactly is the responsibility for safety? Is that with the grower and the coffee shop owner in the context of a business risk? How are we supposed to see this? We know we have scarce police capacity. Should we start using them all to guard our hemp plantations, or perhaps even approach the Ministry of Defence for that? I would like the Minister's clarification on this point. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about prevention. This is a very important point for the Christian Union when we discuss this bill. We know how harmful drugs can be, especially for young people. There are health risks, including weed. For example, there is a risk of permanent psychological damage, effects on education and work and the risk of addiction and the use of other addictive substances. The Knottnerus Committee also points out that the experiment may attract the use of cannabis and that additional preventive measures are therefore needed. And how is the Minister going to prevent the experiments from actually leading to the normalization of drug use? What will be done about it? Mr. Chairman. Only some of the problematic cannabis users are in line with addiction care, often after years of problem smoking. There are about 11,000 cannabis clients in addiction care. These are relatively often young people, as the Trimbos Institute also writes. There are also additional vulnerable groups: young people in special education, young people in the field of youth assistance and young people with a slight learning disability. Last Friday, I was on a working visit to a juvenile justice facility in the country. 60% to 70% of the young people who are trapped there are suffering from an addiction. It has become clear to me that this is not an addiction to hard drugs, but to so-called soft drugs. We need to have an extra eye for that. It is therefore right that the Minister should involve addiction care in the design of the experiments. What does the Minister think of the idea of informing citizens, particularly young people, about the health and safety risks of cannabis use, following a Canadian example? The Minister has also spoken to the Brave Mothers. What points of interest have they given? How will they be involved in the follow-up? Last year the Trimbos Institute made an overview of the cannabis prevalence and the state of prevention. In order to prevent problematic use of cannabis among young people and young adults, ideas have then been explored. Does the Minister include these recommendations in the design of the experiments? Is the Minister prepared to come up with a prevention plan in consultation with the Trimbos Institute? The Trimbos also states that the chance of success depends on the investment in time and money in the framework conditions for cannabis prevention. In this context, the Knottnerus Committee makes a very interesting recommendation. Indeed, the Knottnerus Committee recommends examining the option of lifting a storage facility, which can feed a national fund for the prevention of cannabis use, abuse and addiction, including the research needed to do so. The supplement in question on pot may constitute a buffer at the excessive margins between cost and selling price. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to investigate this and follow this recommendation from the Knottnerus Committee. Mr. Chairman. Then the subject of international law. The Council of State has previously indicated that a general regulated legalisation of cannabis, as provided for in the initiative proposal, is clearly contrary to international law. Once again, the Council of State claims that the intended experiment is likely to be in breach of international and European law. Within European law, we also have the Schengen Agreement, which obliges Member States to take administrative and criminal measures to prevent the sale, supply and supply of narcotic drugs and substances. That's not nothing. However, in its opinion, the Council of State states that the experiment is different from the initiative proposal, because it is now a defined experiment which is temporary in nature. What are the risks of conflict with international law and European law? I ask the Minister. I would ask him to explain exactly how the consultations with neighbouring countries and the other European Member States are going. Does the Minister agree with the Christian Union that, if the experiment is not sufficiently delineated and the temporary nature is to be released, this is a clear conflict with international law? And does the Minister agree with the Christian Union that if you are in favour of real regulation, only European regulation can be achieved? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There are legislative proposals from this government that fill the heart of the Christian Union, which overwhelms our mouths. But that is not this proposal. Well, that's for sure. The Christian Union does not expect regulation to be the solution. Therefore, we do not want to take irreversible steps, but we have agreed to a manageable experiment in time within the framework of the government agreement. This can provide useful information on the closure of the chain and on its effects on public health, crime, security and nuisance. Those insights are also relevant in the international and European context. In our view, the proposed set-up offers sufficient scope for this. We also think it is important that we pay a great deal of attention to prevention and to those vulnerable target groups of young people and their parents and families. With this comment I would like to conclude in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u92	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The policy of tolerance in the Netherlands is famous and notorious worldwide. In the film Pulp Fiction, John Travolta tries to explain to Samuel L. Jackson how the policy works. He manages well and they look forward to a trip to Amsterdam. For me personally, it has always been complicated to explain exactly how this policy is now putting together. You can have five plants in your garden or on your balcony, you can have five grams of weed or hash in your pocket and you can buy this from a coffee shop. But how the coffee shop got this cannabis, in the end, remains the big question. The back door of the coffee shop is basically locked. But the current situation seems to feed crime and not satisfy anyone else. With the intended experiment, we're gonna crack the back door. Back in time. It is also my backyard, but the Holland Pop Festival in Rotterdam-Kralingen in 1970 was at the cradle of the policy of tolerance. Present undercover agents didn't maintain or barely maintain. In 1972, the first coffee shop in our country opened. Many followed and it fit in with the freedom-happiness concept of that time. In the end, it is not surprising that we have come to the current policy. Poldering and forging coalitions is in our blood, taking into account all people and all wishes. This way we keep this country as beautiful as it is and try to make it even more beautiful. In this way, we also come to compromises such as the policy of tolerance, which we are then all proud of. Mr. Chairman. In our view, people are primarily responsible for their own health. We do not want the government to ban everything that is bad for people. I therefore understand the idea behind the current soft drug policy. But it is also under pressure, because we need to regulate it smarter in the Netherlands. The cabinet therefore comes up with an experiment to see if it can actually be better regulated. First of all, our compliments to the people who have produced the legislative proposal before us and to all the groups who have contributed to this in the preliminary stages. Creativity cannot be denied to all of you. It is regrettable, however, that this debate has been scheduled too early as the results of the internet consultation are not yet available. Mr. Chairman. So steps are being taken towards smarter regulation. However, the VVD still sees a number of ifs and buts in these steps. The happy hippie joint of the past isn't that innocent anymore. The THC content has doubled in some parts in recent years and thus also the risk of addiction. In addition, among other things, our weed provides a lively trade and associated crime. The percentage of weed produced for export is estimated at 85% of what is grown in the Netherlands. So we're not here to regulate the back door of the coffee shop. This will not lead to the reduction or disappearance of crime, which we are all so anxious to combat. Attics and barns with weed will continue to exist because, again, 85% is intended for export. The criminal register will continue to ring. Mr. Chairman. The cultivation for trade is not without risk. 1 in 50 large fires has its cause in the growing of weed. The fires often affect several homes, with all the consequences. What is the idea of the Minister of JenV in this regard? Will the approach and the hunt for pot plantations that are not in the system continue unchanged? As a VVD we would like to hear a positive answer. Despite the VVD's expectation that this experiment will not contribute to the disappearance of the dangers of weed farms and the associated crime, we do believe that the odd situation must be solved that coffeeshops should not buy the product they are allowed to sell. That's why this experiment is worth it. Mr. Chairman. Then the experimental communities. How's that going? A number of major cities have indicated that they do not want to participate in the experiment at all. Can the Minister give an insight into the cities that have applied? Does he have those applications in? Are there any names you can mention of people who are enthusiastic? If no one signs up or only wants to participate in small municipalities, is it possible to carry out a good experiment? How does the Minister ensure that the experiment can succeed at all? I would also like to know from the Minister how exactly the control communities are going to work. There is no need for further regulation on this point, as I read in the explanatory memorandum to the Decision experiment closed coffeeshop chain. In response to our questions in the report, the Minister merely says that the precise design of that investigation is up to the research team. We as VVD don't get much better from that. Can the Minister explain orally how that works? Should a control municipality be directly next to an experimental municipality in relation to the overflow of consumers who are not waiting for a Heineken beer but for an Amstel beer, to make a comparison between joints and beer, or should municipalities be comparable in other respects, such as the population, the number of tourists, whether or not they are a student city or have no experience of drug nuisance and undermining crime? That being observed, what is checked for? I would like to hear a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Now an important point for the VVD. I would like to draw particular attention to the safety of our mayors who are dealing with this experiment. I can imagine that not every coffee shop owner, supplier or producer of cannabis is equally happy with this experiment. Let's be honest: this experiment could eventually significantly disrupt the trade of certain figures. The VVD is absolutely not grieved about that, but does provide a situation in which these figures do not back off from any threat to drivers. We are going to have a debate in the Chamber on the security of mayors, but we must be aware that this may be an unpleasant side effect of the experiment. I have a question about this already. How is the Minister going to take preventive action on this? You'll only have four coffee shops in your congregation, three of which want to join and one not. The one will then have to be closed in order to carry out the experiment properly. That's what you should do as mayor. We therefore ask the Minister how he intends to deal with this. Is it wise for the mayor to be the competent body to take these closure decisions? What is the Minister's role in this? Mr President, I will conclude. We're not in 1970 anymore. We are about 50 years ahead and the policy of tolerance needs to be improved. Just as the policy of tolerance was innovative at the time, the VVD hopes that an innovative approach is still under discussion, reducing crime, increasing the safety of the municipality and improving the health of users. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. There is a question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u95	Let us be honest: I think that this experiment is to a large extent there because of the VVD's position. At the time Mrs Bergkamp's bill was in play, the VVD was against and she said that a number of things needed to be sorted out better. Otherwise, there would have just been a majority for it. Maybe one day that's gonna be in the First Chamber. My question then is to the VVD: when is this a success and what is the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u96	This is a like-dan question. I have always learned that I should not go into this too spontaneously. If the VVD had 76 seats in this Chamber, there might have been a completely different proposal. So I am not going to go into the details of exactly what is going to happen and when the experiment is a success. We are going to agree on these details in all terms and conditions and they will come back in the AMvB. You have also asked my colleague this question. She spoke with you about an exercise in science and said that we should not pass things on to science as a policy. We're giving this experiment a chance. At the end, we're gonna see if we can make progress or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u97	Okay, but I do have a wish to get some clarity on the status of the experiment. I think we're setting up an experiment to get information and then better regulate the back door. Does the VVD at least agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u98	No, because today we are discussing the law by which we make the experiment possible. That's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u99	So that is what the Knottnerus Committee called unethical. This means that we are putting coffeeshops and municipalities to great work and that the VVD can then say: whether we are going to do anything with the results at all, those results can be positive or negative, we do not know yet. So, as far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to do an experiment as a kind of research institution, so that the municipalities will have something to do in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u100	Now I happen to be from the public administration and I know that municipalities have more than enough to do and that they have enough to worry about. That is certainly not what we are going to do here. That's not how I'm gonna be, and that's not how the VVD's gonna be. We have agreed this experiment with each other and we are indeed going to look at the results, with all the conditions attached, whether this is going to lead to a change of policy as we now have in the Netherlands. Which is exactly what we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u101	I actually have two questions for the VVD. I'm kind of joining Mrs Buitenweg. I remember very well the debate on our own initiative law. Then the VVD said she wanted to regulate smart. The directors have indicated that they are responsible for a good, thorough experiment that can lead to political decision-making. My question to the VVD is whether the VVD agrees and whether there should be an experiment on the basis of which you, also as a VVD, can make a decision on regulating weed cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u102	I'm a little confusual. I just had a seven-minute speech. I think that this is a good way to deduce our position. I have said that we agree with the proposal before us. I think that's all you can ask of me. Yes, we as VVD agree to this. I don't understand your question. If I have not been clear after that seven minutes, I would ask for my speaking time to be extended, because I shall read it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u103	Of course, it could be entirely up to me. Let me keep it to myself. It is important that the directors are responsible for a good experiment on which political decision-making can be based. My question to the VVD is the following. Is it important, before everything starts, that it's clear what we can investigate, what we can't investigate, and that the VVD says on that basis: when it's complete, then we can make a decision as a party? It seems to be a kind of thriller. I'm still curious what the VVD means by "smart regulation." I hope that this experiment will contribute to this and that the VVD will finally be able to take a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u104	The VVD makes a decision when we agree on that in all ranks. As far as smarter regulation is concerned, we are indeed pleased with this experiment, because it can provide more insight and hopefully give some of us the key to regulating it more intelligently. But we're gonna walk this route together now. Political decision-making is always at the end, certainly of this experiment, because otherwise we should not even be able to carry out the European project. We start the experiment with each other, and at the end of the experiment we're going to see if this has any consequences for current policy. I think that's what's in the law too. As far as I'm concerned, there's no light in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u105	I really agree with the previous speakers. In fact, I think that the VVD has been getting way too easy on this subject for years by simply not coming up with a detailed position. She criticises the D66 proposal and says "we are for smarter regulation," but what that may be, we still don't know years later. When is the VVD going to take responsibility for thinking about how to deal with the important aspect of public health and the important aspect of the fight against crime, and what is a sensible way of dealing with soft drugs? Because I do not miss any criticism or proposal about the bill formally we do not discuss the AMvB, but we do discuss the bill. I myself put two amendments on the table, but not a word about them. But take, for example, the resident criterion and the question whether it is wise to start drawing lots at the number of growers. Not a word about that. So where is the VVD on this important story? How do we deal with soft drugs in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u106	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u107	We are very pleased with this coalition because there is now an experiment on the basis of which we can strengthen our positions. On the contrary, we do not want to burden the debate with all the parts of it that may be discussed, where we are told from the left that we are not enough left and where the right side says: oh, oh, oh, what are you left again today? On the contrary, we welcome the proposal as it stands today. We conform to that line. I think you're also pleased with the experiment ahead of you. You'd even want to take it a little further than what's in there right now. I would therefore think that you would be pleased that we as a VVD in this coalition are enthusiastic about this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u108	But then let's be honest. We want this experiment to be a success. Mrs. Laan nods; that's good news. If that's what you want, then you also have to create the conditions to make it a success. If you look at all the criticism of this experiment coming from the municipalities, from the coffee shops, and so on, and so on, we have all mentioned it, then surely it is wise to ask critical questions to the government to see if there is any possibility of adjusting the strict conditions that are currently in place? Even the VVD will be able to take a stand on soft drugs policy in the Netherlands. That would be really nice. So my specific question is: is there room for the VVD to steer the experiment? What opportunities do we have to respond, for example, to Mrs Bergkamp's legitimate concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u109	It is remarkable that the SP is currently highlighting Mrs Bergkamp's concerns, but that is perhaps very inherently social. But no, we are happy with the proposals that are currently on the table. We are in agreement with that. For the speed of decision-making in this house, perhaps it should be more often that people are enthusiastic about proposals that lie there, because then we could just go through with this. We're excited. We are satisfied with what is currently on the table. We are very curious to know what will come out of it, whether it will indeed contribute to the concerns we have. In my story, I specifically presented it to you. It is about safety, crime in the Netherlands and addiction risks, because an increased THC level can make you more addicted. The experiment will soon show whether it has contributed to this. If so, then we are going to see how we are in the game politically at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u110	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u111	The VVD really says: "Everyone, the coffeeshop municipalities, the coffeeshop owners, everyone in the country, can jump high or low with criticism of this experiment; we don't care. We're just gonna do it. We're not gonna change another letter. And then it fails, yes, that's too bad."? Is that really what the VVD says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u112	I am surprised that Mr Van Nispen already assumes that the experiment will fail if his wishes are not met. I think it's been thought through. A lot of people have talked about it. I even complimented the authors of the story for their creativity. We don't agree. We are satisfied with what is at the moment, and it seems that satisfied people are also being criticised in this country. I'm fine with it. You think about it the way you think about it. We're happy with what's going on here, and we're gonna start this experiment with open sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u113	I have an afterburner on a very specific point: the transitional period. That is an important point for me and a number of colleagues. I know the VVD as a party that also moves into the entrepreneur. A coffee shop holder is of course also an entrepreneur. Does she also think it makes sense that if you change goods in your shop, you have time to make sure you get used to them, that you know what you're going to sell and your consumers know that? Does the VVD actually think that's a logical question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u114	The question was asked by you. I'd like to wait for the answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u115	That is what we do with all the questions we have asked: to await the answer of the ruler. Since this is really about entrepreneurship, I would like to know a little more from the VVD if she understands this. I used the metaphor at the clothing store. Your clothes are changing. There's new stuff coming in. Then you want a moment to get used to, fine tune, possibly adjust, also towards your consumers. Does the VVD actually think that's a logical wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u116	Not necessarily. There are also empty sales situations of shops that then start again in January with a whole new collection. Entrepreneurship is very creative. We're gonna see how the Cabinet reacts to this. A comprehensive package has now been put forward. That whole package is gonna slide if you're gonna pull certain drawers. So we're just waiting to see what the cabinet thinks. Then you can expect me to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. Finally, Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Van der Staaij, who gives me the privilege of replacing him here at the moment. Let me start by embracing all the colleagues who have said that weed policy in the Netherlands is bankrupt. Well, at least we all agree on that. The next question is, of course, what should happen then? It is clear that something needs to be done. What do you want to do: release, ban or regulate? With this experiment, the cabinet chooses the latter. The coalition chooses this, I must say. I've been listening to that. Let me then make no mistake about this: the SGP sees no good in this proposal. No weed is better than state weed. It's obvious. No matter how much aldermen of some municipalities are eager to become potholders, pot use is just not good. There's health damage to the user. There are also dangers for the immediate environment of the user and for society as a whole. Drug use can be disruptive in marriages and families. There was rightly reference to the Brave Mothers, who unfortunately are experience experts in this. As a municipal and national government, you just don't want to be involved. Psychiatric addiction is a major hazard in cannabis. There are serious health risks for blowers. There is up to five times more tar and carbon monoxide in the lungs compared to smoking tobacco. I'll just mention one small detail. Mr. Chairman. My first question. How, in what way, have all the harmful effects of pot use on public health been taken into account in drafting this bill? How does this bill contribute to countering these effects, especially for vulnerable groups such as young people and addicts? Mr. Chairman. The weed proposal contains an incomprehensible contradiction. On the one hand, the cabinet is literally paying millions to prevent a bad lifestyle. Very good. The cabinet is right to tackle overweight, problematic alcohol consumption and smoking. The pictures on the tobacco packets are getting more and more gruesome. It can't be horrible enough and the lyrics can't be strong enough. "A healthier Netherlands is what we want to achieve," says the first sentence of the national prevention agreement. On the other hand, with this weed experiment, the cabinet is focusing on the standardisation of soft drug use. I also have the impression that some colleagues need this experiment to succeed and that it will not succeed until soft drug use has normalized. In fact, few proposals from the coalition agreement have been taken up as vigorously as this experiment with legalized weed cultivation and weed sales, apart of course from abolishing the referendum. That's an aside. You can't explain this, can you? Then why, with such a wonderful prevention programme, does the government choose to normalize pot use? As a cabinet, you send out a completely contradictory signal, don't you? What does the cabinet really want? And are the Minister and the Cabinet prepared to take steps along with the SGP towards a weed-free generation? The cabinet works intensively with international partners in the fight against illegal weed cultivation. The cultivation and production of drugs are contrary to UN conventions, of course with the exception of medical or scientific applications. Concrete question: how does this experiment fit into what has been agreed internationally on the fight against drug cultivation and drug use? Mr. Chairman. Then about the purpose of the experiment. This is: exploring how to create a closed coffee shop chain and its impact on crime, security, nuisance and public health. When I went through the documents, I sincerely wondered at what point in time the cabinet found that this experiment was successful. If the use of weed has decreased or just if it has increased? Or isn't that a criterion? If the nuisance around coffeeshops has been reduced or just if it has increased? If the influence of criminals on drug trafficking in the participating municipalities is diminished? The key question then is how to measure it, how to determine it. Madam President. In this experiment, the cabinet investigates whether legalising weed cultivation is a solution to the current failing policy of tolerance. Is it not consistent to examine, as an experiment, the exact opposite solution, namely, in a number of municipalities where the sale of weed and hash is currently tolerated, to radically close the coffee shops and to enforce the law, and therefore no longer tolerate it, to investigate what that means for public order, public health and undermining crime? Is the Minister prepared to send a proposal for such an experiment to the Chamber so that we have at least two experiments from which you can compare the results? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet seems to see this experiment as a kind of safe playground in which some can be tried undisturbed in the coming years. On the other hand, the Public Prosecutor's Office stresses that this experiment should take into account criminal offences such as extortion and robbery at legal cultivation sites, transporters and participating coffeeshops. My question to the Minister is: is the Minister aware of the risks to public order and security associated with this experiment? How does he prepare for this? Criminals make money from growing and trading cannabis. There may be extreme violence in the drug industry. Then what role does the Minister see for the police and who pays for the security costs? I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members on this point. I also wonder how the Minister will prevent criminals from getting a finger in this experiment. What powers do local leaders have to deal with this when they see that the underworld and the upper world are once again merging? Mr President, I come to the last point I would like to raise. Much is still unclear about the practical effects of the experiment. The explanatory memorandum leaves much to be desired. In answering the questions we have asked, the cabinet remains vague. Why does the Cabinet not take a little more time to draw up a good general measure of governance, which can then be dealt with at the same time as this bill? Municipalities barely know what they're up to. In conclusion, I have the following questions. How exactly are the participating municipalities and growers selected? How will the comparison between the participating municipalities and the control municipalities take place and what concrete points will be compared? How is it ensured that hemp produced in the experiment does not reach other coffee-shop communities or abroad via the illegal circuit? That too is an exciting question, which has rightly been asked by several colleagues. Can the Minister guarantee that a municipality that participates in the experiment, at least all the current tolerance criteria, including the resident criterion, will apply already, so that you get a reliable experiment? Finally, how is infringement of the terms of the experiment handled by growers or sellers? Or, perhaps, during the experiment, will there be another policy of tolerance? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u120	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.45 p.m. and then we shall begin with the order of business. I see the Minister of Justice looking a little hard. Do you need a little longer? Until 2:00? We shall begin with the arrangement and proceed with the debate at 2 p.m.
