ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mr Smeulders' question on behalf of GroenLinks to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about inmates who have wrongly received benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There we are again, I'd almost like to say. It's time again. Another investigation by Nieuwsuur about major problems at UWV. You'd almost be indifferent. What's going on now? It appears that large numbers of inmates are being unfairly paid benefits. A simple reporting system appears not to work properly in practice or in any case not to work properly. How simple can it be? Justice informs the UWV that someone is in prison and then the benefit should be stopped, but that does not appear to be the case. Notifications seem to disappear, personal data appear to be still far ahead of the time of the social security numbers and error is stacked. According to Newsuur, at least hundreds of cases are involved and the damage often amounts to tens of thousands of euros per case. This undermines confidence in our social security. Not only because people receive benefits unjustly, but also because the image of the UWV is constantly emerging that it cannot perform its task properly and has no contact with the minister. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. The first is whether the Minister was aware of this. A simple question. The second question, also not very complicated, is how it is possible that the UWV cannot carry out such a simple process properly. Is it true that the UWV works with highly outdated databases and what does that actually say about other automated processes at the UWV? And perhaps the most important question is: what is the Minister going to do to resolve this very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. There we are again, said Mr Smeulders, and I agree with him. I'm not going to be indifferent to this at all, and I'm really upset about this. Like you, I get mad when I watch a criminal get thousands of euros in benefits while he's stuck in a cell. Everyone agrees that prisoners should not receive benefits. This was not for nothing laid down by law in 2001. Unfortunately, the fact that this could have happened is part of the picture that has already been endorsed by the UWV, Mr Smeulders referred to this as insufficient prioritisation of enforcement. I do understand from the UWV that action has been taken on this subject in the past period. I'm just gonna focus on the content and then I'm gonna focus on the communication. Let's start with the contents. Let me start by saying that the prisoner himself has to stop the benefit. But because we know that this doesn't always happen by itself, the UWV receives daily data from the Judicial Institution Service about all new inmates so that UWV can compare them to the benefit file. UWV conducted internal research into this file comparison both in 2017 and 2018. This indeed showed that the system was not waterproof. This problem with the interconnection of systems has now been solved, which was one of Mr Smeulder's questions. That's not gonna happen. However, there is still an ICT error which, according to the UWV, does not trigger an automatic alarm for a small part of the input. We must resolve this as soon as possible. I'm in consultation with UWV about how we're gonna solve this as soon as possible. The second point is communication. The question was, did you know this? No. And why didn't you know this? I asked myself the same question last night. I was in another room talking to social partners when this message came in. These are indeed signals that should have been sent to my ministry. I should have known. In the past year, fundamental problems have been exposed at the UWV. In consultation with the UWV, a lot of things have been set in motion for this, but unfortunately this incident illustrates this issue that we are not there yet. I'm worried about that, too. I can promise the Chamber that I will get to the bottom of this matter. I will return to the Chamber at the end of this month. In any case, I will return to you at the end of this month with an earlier announced research into culture and with the alert letter. I have also informed the Chamber that the provision of information between the UWV and my ministry, and between me and your Chamber, should be improved. That is why I have promised the Chamber that we will make an overall assessment framework and send it to your Chamber, in addition to the state of execution and the warning letter, which will better share the signals of fraud with your Chamber. This incident underlines the need for this measure and we need to make further progress along with the UWV. I am also going to discuss this with the chairman of the UWV's board of directors in the near future. Before the end of this month, I'd like to have this sorted out and inform your Chamber further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u5	It is good that the Minister will inform us in the near future. I would also like to thank him for the answer. I would also like to receive the inquiries that Nieuwsuur has and not the Chamber. Then a little more general, because we can now go into this case very much, which my colleagues may still be doing, but I would like to ask you about the fact that it is incredibly painful that as a Chamber we depend time and time again on good independent journalism to get information about things that are not going well at UWV. We have had a lot of debates on this with this Minister and every time he says: I will get the bottom stone up; I will make sure that it does not happen again. But it just happens every time! How is that even possible? Does the Minister have sufficient control over the UWV? What else are they trying to keep under wraps that the minister and the chamber don't know about? How is it that the UWV itself does so much research, but apparently the results are hardly discussed with the Ministry? What does that say about the culture between the ministry and the UWV? Finally, Mr President. According to the Minister, what change is needed at the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Smeulders' first question was about informing the Chamber about the investigations. I'm telling you. I'll make those investigations available to you. I just need to see how that's done, whether it's supposed to be confidential, yes or no. I'll send it to your room. Then there is Mr Smeulders' second point. Yeah, it's incredibly painful that this keeps coming up. I said that in my first term. That is why I have agreed with the UWV that we are going to make this alert every year, with which all kinds of fraud phenomena that are in practice investigated or raised at the UWV are shared much more proactively with your Chamber, because I think your Chamber should know that. In the past, information was mainly given on the main lines of action. I would also like you to hear the specific phenomena of fraud. I have already said that some of this will have to be in confidence, because it can betray the modus operandi of fraudsters. But that's what I'm gonna do in that alert letter coming up at the end of this month. Then there is Mr Smeulders' third point. The UWV does a lot of research. I am very pleased with that, because these internal investigations by the UWV are mainly aimed at improving the quality of service but also the quality of enforcement. I would find it a shame if these kinds of reports were no longer made within the UWV because there is a risk of leaking or sending messages to the media. The combination of these two things makes it even more important for me to inform your Chamber much better, again, at the end of this month the letter on fraud phenomena comes in the broad sense so that the Chamber can discuss this with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I hope that the Minister has not made clear from my questions that we are against these investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u9	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u10	We are very much in favour of these investigations, but we find it a little strange that, if the UWV investigates, the ministry does not seem to know that and as a result neither does the Chamber. It can't be. It is clear to GroenLinks that the bottom stone has to come up. I have also requested a debate on this. And I think there is plenty of reason, also on the basis of the information that the Minister is going to send us this month, to plan that debate very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u11	I agree with Mr Smeulders; I think we can be brief about that. I am going to inform your Chamber about this and we should indeed have the debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u12	At the end of last year, the Minister was completely surprised at Newsuur's revelations about the WW fraud. But it would all get better. The Chamber would be informed, the contact with the UWV would be improved. Last night we see a similar form of wrongdoing, and again here is a totally surprised minister. Once again, we are informed by the media rather than by the minister. When does the Minister give up trust in this UWV summit to prevent the Chamber from having to cancel trust in this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u13	On the first point, I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. That is why I have already pointed out to your Chamber that I am coming up with that alert letter, because I think that the Chamber was previously not sufficiently informed at detail level, too little about concrete cases, about enforcement examples of fraud and the examples that UWV's enforcers encounter in practice. I think that this should be much broader and clearer. Even if there are only small signals on the subject investigations, your Chamber should be informed. Again, part of it will have to be confidential. But I've promised before that it would be much better than before. That's what I'm gonna do, and it's gonna be at the end of the month. The second point concerns the UWV summit, to which Mr Jasper van Dijk also referred. A few months ago, I sent a letter to your Chamber stating that, together with the UWV summit, I am now working on these actions to improve this, to improve the exchange of information between me and the UWV but also between me and your Chamber. It will also be examined whether, on-going cultural research, the signals from the workplace reach the top sufficiently. All these topics have been set in motion and are currently running. I would like to inform your Chamber at the end of this month and then enter into the debate with your Chamber. Then we can also arrange it structurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u14	The UWV nightmare continues. We've seen that. That's too bizarre for words, isn't it? As a society, we spend hundreds of euros on the cost of living for prisoners. And what does such a prisoner get on the sale of the UWV? A bonus, a benefit. The minister's here in his shirt, because he didn't know. I want the Minister to do the following until everything's over. Is the Minister prepared to have all the notifications that make an error in the system checked by the UWV one by one, so that it is not possible to get his error in the system from now on? Because it's cost society enough money already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u15	I cannot fully understand the implications of Mr Wiersma's question. I'd like to get back to that in that letter. On those 5% reports, which I have just mentioned in the direction of Mr Smeulders, where things are still going wrong and for which we are now seeking a solution, we will be extra alert. But in general, I find it difficult to grab all the reports in the system, I say honestly to Mr Wiersma. But let me also return to this point in the letter, which comes to your Chamber at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u16	For migrant workers, fraudulent employers, inmates and some ICT companies, it is of course all a celebration, but for the rest of the Netherlands this is just terrible. What's that all about? Is that on the UWV top? Then I think the problem will be solved quickly. Is it an ICT infrastructure that is not good? Are we working on symptom control? I don't know. I expect the minister to do what he has to do; he will. My question is this. Of course, he wasn't aware of this incident. I believe so, but my question is, how much more crap is in those old systems? 'Cause it looks like if you press somewhere, you'll find something new. Philosophically, the minister can only know what he knows and not what he doesn't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u17	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u18	My question is very specific: how is he going to get everything out of those old systems and we won't be back here next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u19	I understand Mr Peters' question very well; it is also justified. That was precisely my question to the UWV when last October Poland's WW fraud came up. That is why I have said that I believe that the Chamber should be much better informed about all these incidents. In the service of the UWV there are, of course, many more areas in which enforcers get signals of fraud. They are often shared with the Chamber only late or not. I think it really has to be different. I also believe that this should be shared transparently with the Chamber. In addition, we are discussing the ICT systems. A few weeks ago, there was also a debate in this Chamber following the hearing with Mr Veldwijk. In response, I asked three ICT experts to review this point again, precisely to address Mr Peters' point. What else is hidden in those systems? Or, what else can we do with those systems? That whole package is coming towards your room at the end of the month. I look forward to discussing that with you. I really think it should be done better, as should the Chamber, as should Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u20	Hardworking Dutchmen pay taxes and the UWV then pays this money to prisoners, to prisoners. This is wrong and is also against the law. Those inmates, those prisoners, those criminals, they get that, too, illegal, so against the law. We do not know whether we are talking about hundreds or thousands of euros, or perhaps tens of thousands or millions of euros that have been wrongly paid to prisoners. My question to the Minister is: can the Minister promise this Chamber that he will recover every penny from every prisoner, possibly even with a fine? 'Cause they got it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u21	We'll take care of it. I'm saying that's complicated, too. I've known since last night, and I didn't think about it until this morning. I read that a complexity is that the UWV is not allowed to store all data. It is therefore also dependent on other public authorities. But I do agree with Mr Markuszower's intention: if people have been wrongly paid benefits, they must be recovered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u22	It has just been said: there are a lot of people in this country who pay taxes and get very angry with these kinds of incidents. Journalists have had to point this out to us, while employees have already referred this to the board of directors of the UWV in recent years. The question is: why is there no solution yet? If you know there's a problem, doesn't a board of directors have to take action? How is this still going on for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mrs. Van Brenn is right. This is a point that has already emerged several years in a row. That is why, last year, during the debate on Poland's WW fraud, there was also a discussion on culture, openness and security in the organisation. As a result, we started this cultural research. It's gonna be public soon. I'll share that with the Chamber, too. We have done so to prevent signals from reaching the top from coming from the workplace. Of course it has to be. Employees must feel the freedom, security and protection that these kinds of signals come to the summit and are picked up there. I agree with Mrs Van Brenk that we need to do much better. This investigation is now under way. It's gonna be over soon. I'd like to discuss it with the Chamber. But I have also seen over the past period, for example at Nieuwsuur, that screen dumps from the intranet of the UWV became public and that internal whistleblowers sent an e-mail. This of course creates a very unsafe working environment, also for the UWV'ers. We really need to do something together to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u24	Second question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u25	Yes, Mr President, we think this is so important that we do indeed have two questions to ask. There's something else behind it. The Minister was very enthusiastic about the employee satisfaction survey. He's told us every time that it went so well there. And now this turns out, again. And the question is: how is it that these investigations are unknown? So there have been investigations. Can we trust that in the letter promised by the Minister, all the investigations that have been carried out by employees and which the board of directors has not done anything about will end up in the Minister's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u26	In the first place, the employee satisfaction survey concerns all 18,000 employees of the UWV. That's an average of all the 18,000 people who work there. I have spoken to many UWV employees over the past period, also in connection with the incidents that have occurred. I said at the first question that many people feel unsafe because of the current situation and the discussions they have on birthdays about what is happening at the UWV. The employee satisfaction survey is an average of the entire UWV population. Hundreds of investigations are being conducted at UWV. These are small researches on a theme and long-term thematic studies on, for example, migrant workers, which have lasted a number of years. What I'm going to do is I think I'm going to do the same in the letter at the end of June: give an overview of what kind of investigations there are and what themes they are. That is the alert letter I would like to share with you, so that you can also see which themes are being investigated. This will enable us to have a discussion in a debate on, for example, whether you want to know more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u27	It is very serious that we are hearing again about the UWV and fraud. I think that the Minister and I agree on that, and I have just heard in reply to other questions that something really needs to change in culture. If anything goes wrong, just call it in. It's being worked on; it's beautiful. But I think last night, when that message came in to the minister's office, the floor went down underneath him. My question is this. If the minister is in next meeting, is he ever afraid that there will be another third report of UWV and fraud? Or does he say "no, this is so clear; I expect it to not happen after this"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u28	I can't say that last one. Unfortunately, that's what I'm saying. But in order to have more control over this and to share more information with your Chamber, I asked the UWV for this point in that alert letter to simply tell us what thematic investigations are going on, what examples of fraud they see in practice and what information we can then share with the Chamber, so that the Chamber gets a better idea of which areas there are risks. This does not only have to be ICT risks, but can also be enforcement risks. If you make it public and transparent, you can also have the debate about it. Maybe then you can even make legal adjustments to improve the work. I have noticed that in recent years it has been directed too much inwards, even from the idea that if one says something too much, evildoers are going to take advantage of it. Of course, I do not want to, but it is clear that your Chamber should be better informed about these phenomena. I'm definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-2.u29	Yes, you promised. Thank you.
