ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the budget for external trade and development cooperation (35300-XVII). I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u2	As is customary with the budget, we begin with the first opposition party. That's the PVV. I give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u3	Mr. Chairman. The PVV is a bit against will and thanks. We find this budget treatment an annual low. It's the biggest billion-dollar waste of this cabinet. If it is up to the PVV, we have no foreign trade and development cooperation minister at all, the development aid budget goes to zero and the trading book is placed with the foreign minister. The Dutch are traditionally a generous people. Let everyone decide for themselves whether and, if so, what charity they want to donate their hard-earned money to. The OS policy of this cabinet is insane. The total budget will grow by a small billion to almost EUR 6 billion next year. A large part is reserved for climate finance, in developing countries. As a present-day missionary, Minister Kaag will proclaim the green gospel in Africa. If you didn't feel sorry for the African people, you'll get it now. The green religion madmen have caused enormous landscape damage in our country. Beautiful bulb fields turned into hideous sunbathing meadows. The picturesque Dutch polder landscape was ruined with countless bird heelers. The destruction of the beautiful Dutch landscape is apparently not enough for this cabinet. The climate mafia is now targeting the pristine African savannah. Why? Are we out of real problems in Africa? Is building schools or water wells in the eighties? Mr. Chairman. The answer is simple. The aid industry needed a new earning model, because the bad dollars must continue to roll. The subsidy caravan has to stay on track. The moral blackmail show must go on. And the VVD wants to make some money out of it. So now we're exporting some first-world problems to Africa. That may cost a bit, because for international climate finance, this cabinet is budgeting no less than 1.12 billion. I would like to know from the Minister how that will work in practice. Has a reduction in the speed limit been announced in the Horn of Africa? Has the Cabinet had an impact analysis made to see the effect of wind farms and sunbathing on the African animal population? I would just remind the Minister that if one giraffe stumbles over solar panels, she will have to deal with my colleague Dion Graus. You've been warned. Have calculations been made of the nitrogen deposition in the Sub-Sahara? Has the climate coalition informed the farmers in Ethiopia that their livestock is going to be halved? Was that the real reason for Jesse Klaver's visit and his less than enthusiastic reception there? So many questions. I wonder if we'll get an answer today. Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, the Minister defended her budget in the Chamber for the first time. She was a little uncomfortable. In the meantime, we are two years further away and she exudes the confidence of herself. She's convinced she knows what's good for our country. The fact that she lived outside the Netherlands for a quarter of a century and didn't even experience the fortuynrevolte here, shouldn't make fun. With her seemingly boundless ambition, she now even has the party leadership of D66 in her sights. Honestly, she has a pretty good chance. Not all candidates have a campaign cash with billions of euros of taxpayers' money. She's all gonna do things with it that make left-wing bad guys happy. Minister Kaag also regularly makes bombastic speeches in which she warns of the danger of populist parties and effortlessly links with the Second World War. This year, the Minister even had an invitation to the Bilderberg Conference, to which only the summit of the Western self-hatred elite is entitled. And let us not forget how, during a party meeting, she effortlessly addressed the refugees present in Arabic with an insulting joke about Dutchmen. Chapeau! The PVV would have preferred that she had spent that time more usefully, for example to pay attention if the billions of Dutch taxpayers' money do not fall into the wrong hands. Well, that's a little off the record, as we could see in Mali.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u4	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, because I think the remarks made by Mrs Van Weerdenburg towards the Minister are a little shameless. What does the fact that the Minister has not been in the Netherlands for a number of years, even if it is perhaps ten years, have to do with the policy for which she is here? What does that have to do with the fact that it does climate money, that it stands up for the most vulnerable in the world? I would urge Mrs Van Weerdenburg to focus on the content and not on the minister's person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u5	That illustrates exactly my point: what do the speeches made by the Minister throughout the country have to do with her portfolio? She's talking about Holland. She talks about populist parties, including my party. The most horrible things are blamed on us. None of this has anything to do with development cooperation, so I believe that we are on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u6	We are dealing here with a budget of what is it? 5,5 billion. This minister is responsible for that. We in the House of Representatives control this minister. I would very much appreciate it if we could have a substantive debate with this minister, including from the PVV. That is what she is appealing to and not to the things she might say on behalf of her party or perhaps have done abroad. I would really appreciate a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u7	I agree with what my colleague Voordewind says. You say that you are opposed to this and thank you, so I know that it is difficult for you to go into the substance of a dossier. I know that's very difficult for you, but maybe we can give you a hand. Perhaps you can have something positive in the sixteen minutes you have. Try to find a point within this minister's budget, which she carries out on behalf of the entire cabinet; it is not her personal private cash, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Please refrain from these personal attacks. It's a bit of a shame you're doing that. It's not necessary at all. Just go into the content. It's a budget deal. All Members of Parliament are present to hold a substantive debate. Will you do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u8	You've made your point, Mr. Bouali. Mrs Van Weerdenburg, I suggest you proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u9	Can I just respond to this for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u10	Yes, of course you can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u11	I find it funny in itself to note that we 'go into too much detail' when we mention here that there are a number of projects funded by Dutch taxpayers' money, which almost everyone thinks is ridiculous. The last time we sat together about Mali, it was also very technical and we also had a very strong substantive story. I have not heard Mr Bouali say anything about this either. So it's never good either, but it doesn't matter. I'm just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u12	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u13	The PVV has great difficulty with the Minister's intervention on the Mali file. As a reminder, Canadian research showed that irregular expenditures of EUR 1.13 billion were incurred by the Malian government between 2005 and 2017. In the same period from 2005 to 2015, the Netherlands provided EUR 265 million bilateral budget support to Mali. Instead of making that information public directly, as the PVV repeatedly asked the Minister, she first personally went to Mali to have a talk with the Malian authorities. It's a mystery to me why that was necessary, but apparently they didn't spend all those millions of dollars in aid money on a phone. The Minister has waited far too long to publish the report. When she finally did, under pressure from the PVV, she informed the Chamber incorrectly and incompletely. She sent a letter to the Chamber in which she charged a risk share, concluding that only 13.7 million euros of Dutch tax money might have been spent wrongly. A conclusion which proved to be wrong, as we have seen together during the general consultation on the irregularities in Mali. The Minister admitted that it had been merely an assessment and that there is really nothing sensible to say about the real amount of Dutch tax money that has ended up in the deep pockets of the Malian rulers. Pretty much translated. She took a guess. Publicity is a convenient trick from the minister and her spindoctors, because the media took over the 13.7 million eagerly and the Dutch citizen remained ignorant of the sad fate of the 265 million euro Dutch budget support to Mali. The PVV feels deceived by the minister. She's the one who put the Chamber on the wrong track. It would be nice if she would still apologize for this and give us the undertaking that, in future, when reporting on potentially irregular expenditure or suspected malpractices, she would confine herself to mentioning amounts and not taking into account risk-sharing estimates. Just give the Chamber all available figures and leave the interpretation to us. We are very capable of drawing our own conclusions. Trust in the knowledge and skill of the Chamber, I'd like to give the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The mantra of this cabinet on almost every subject is that it can be much better regulated at EU level. From a registration requirement for tractors to a joint army. But why do we not hear that argument when it comes to development cooperation? The European Union is transferring billions to developing countries, partly with the transfer of Dutch money. Then why is the Netherlands funding the same projects and countries that the EU is already funding? What is the added value of that Dutch drop on a glowing record? I hope the Minister will take this seriously, because her boundless ambition for the Netherlands in the field of development aid is hard to reconcile with her attitude towards the trading book. It is the opposite. It considers the Netherlands too small and insignificant to conclude trade agreements with powerful trading partners such as the United States, even if it is thrown into its lap. The United States inquired about the possibilities of a bilateral trade deal with the Netherlands, but Minister Kaag did not want to know about it. She firmly referred the Americans to the EU negotiator. The PVV finds this really insufferable and even damaging to our reputation as a trading nation. Surely we could at least listen to the Americans to hear what is possible for our country? Mr. Chairman. CETA is just a bad deal for the Netherlands. Fortunately, this is getting through to more and more Dutch people, and the Minister himself knows it. She's getting nervous. But yes, if the scary extreme leftist activists of Milieudefensie and the PVV stand side by side with CETA, then that is a bit like Easter and Pentecost fall in one day. Even our own coalition partner, the Christian Union, seems far from convinced. So I can understand that panic with the Minister. Because what if it doesn't succeed in pushing CETA through the Dutch parliament? The Minister can't use such a loss of face, especially in campaigning times. Rob Jetten's gonna run off with the loot. In order to save what is to be saved, Minister Kaag sat at Buitenhof last Sunday, two days before this budget debate, to dismiss the opponents of CETA as stupid and uninformed, without, of course, contradicting the state broadcasting. She said, "If you can't do it with Canada, you can't actually make a trade agreement with anyone." Who exactly was the minister talking about? Because if it meant the EU, which is not even able to negotiate a decent treaty with Canada, then the PVV fully agrees with it. Everything negotiated by the EU on behalf of the Netherlands becomes a dragon of a treaty. That's why we have to get rid of it. But if she was referring to the Netherlands, I would particularly urge her to call her Canadian colleague today. Because "we" as in "we, the Netherlands" are perfectly capable of concluding a trade agreement with Canada. An agreement that does not conflict with our high standards of animal welfare, product and production standards. An agreement that does justice to our agricultural sector. We wouldn't even need an ICS determination. An agreement that reflects the special relationship between the Netherlands and Canada. Minister, show a little ambition, a little VOC mentality and grab that phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u14	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u15	Mr. Chairman. I'd be happy to take you back in time. Self-reliance is necessary for everyone. Being self-sufficient in primary necessities is something that the Netherlands succeeded centuries ago. For example, the inhabitants of the cities of The Hague and Rotterdam were already fed food centuries ago from the nearby horticultural region of Westland, where I came from and where I was allowed to be alderman. Urban farming avant la lettre. In the open ground vegetables and flowers were grown. Over the years, this whole process of growing, harvesting, trading through the auction and logistics process towards the market has been greatly improved and increasingly efficient. There were glass greenhouses, better cultivation systems, opportunities to control the climate and control the water. The Westland grew into a Glass City. During the decades that followed, entrepreneurs built up their businesses and shared a lot of knowledge among themselves. A strong economic cluster was created, which has become famous worldwide, not only because of its beautiful and healthy products, but also because of its innovative technological cultivation methods and energy efficient greenhouses. Other countries that want to become self-sufficient are also coming to the Westland: the Prime Minister of Japan, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan and dozens of other trade missions have already come to take a look. The moral of this story is that economic development, prosperity and self-sufficiency go hand in hand and that we have something to offer the world. Just as we have become self-sufficient, we can also help other countries. What is good for our economy and our prosperity is also good for many other countries in the world. In order to achieve all this, it is very important that we remove the wall between foreign trade and development cooperation. We must once again be proud of our knowledge and skill and promote this in the world. With development money and other investment instruments, we can share our knowledge and skills in order, for example, to eliminate hunger. Our Dutch seed breeding companies already provide millions of farmers and growers worldwide with high-quality knowledge and seeds that enable farmers in developing countries and beyond to improve their economic position and produce more and better products for their families and for consumers. The Netherlands has a unique position in global food supply. This is also evident, for example, from the fact that the Dutchman Simon Groot has won the World Food Prize 2019. The VVD is therefore very pleased about the recent launch of Seed NL by the State Department, LNV and industry organisation Plantum. This innovative public-private partnership aims to strengthen the seed sector in developing countries. Good seeds and varieties contribute to the efficient use of resources by local farmers, employment, improving access to safe and healthy food and better dealing with the effects of climate change. Seed NL is therefore a good first step in getting developing countries self-sufficient. The VVD hopes that this partnership will develop further, allowing Dutch processing companies to continue to share knowledge and experience and to redeem market opportunities. The combination of public and private investment leads to the sustainable development of those countries that need it. I therefore ask the Minister to inform the House of Representatives of the progress of Seed NL every year. I assume she can promise that. In short, our starting point is clear: let the knife cut on two sides. Our own economic development has brought us a great deal of prosperity. Let us also grant this to other countries. That's good for their prosperity and for ours too. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the budget for external trade and development cooperation today. Last Sunday, our minister joined the TV show Buitenhof. It was announced there as Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade. It's the other way around. Was that a freudian slip from the presenter? In any case, the Minister has enormous experience and expertise when it comes to development cooperation. Foreign trade, on the other hand, should receive a little more attention in the Ministry. In the Ministry, twice as many officials are involved in development cooperation as in foreign trade. The vast majority of policy indicators that measure the success of policies are about development cooperation and not about trade. Most of the budget is spent through NGOs. Only a quarter of the budget for the private sector is earmarked for Dutch companies, while there is sufficient reason to devote a great deal of care and attention to foreign trade. As a trading country, we depend on rules-based cooperation with other countries. At the same time, we see that more and more countries are turning against cooperation and trade rules. The trade war between China and the US is costing us money and jobs. Unfair competition from China is pushing our entrepreneurs out of the market. In addition, the WTO, the world trade referee, will soon not even have enough judges to enforce the rules. These are all worrying developments. In that turbulent world, our entrepreneurs are trying to find their way as best they can. Dutch products can be found all over the world. We are big in food production, innovation and water management. We have knowledge and skills to keep the world safe and to feed. We are therefore a trading country, and that is something to be proud of. That pride doesn't live with everyone. Some parties in this Parliament are not in favour of more, but rather of less exports. Other parties are suddenly opposed to a trade agreement negotiated by their group colleague. Sometimes it seems as if we in the Netherlands are beginning to suffer from commercial shame. The Ministry does promote trade, but mainly in the context of development impact. This leaves many entrepreneurs out of business. That is a shame, because it is at the expense of employment and prosperity. Mr. Chairman. Instead of being ashamed, we should be proud, as far as I am concerned, of what we have to offer as a trading country. This means that we also need to share our knowledge and skills in areas such as water management and food security. But it's always one who helps the other. Entrepreneurs are not only at the service of development goals; they should also be able to get something out of them themselves. Is the Minister prepared to share our knowledge and skills more effectively by involving our entrepreneurs more actively in development cooperation? How does it view a pilot project to have our companies working together with companies from other countries with a bilateral innovation tool? What opportunities does the Minister see to offer more integrated concessional funding for projects, using ODA money together with private money to build the economy of developing countries? Not only larger Dutch companies have much to offer abroad. The same applies to our SMEs. Unfortunately, at the moment only 9% of our SMEs are doing international business. There is therefore a huge potential for growth. In addition, many SMEs have innovative solutions to global challenges, but often lack the platform or the right partner abroad to deliver these solutions. How does the Minister intend to ensure that not only the big boys, but also start-ups find an international platform to promote and sell their ideas? What possibilities does the Minister see for assisting small and medium-sized enterprises in international cooperation in the field of innovation? How does the Minister support innovative projects such as Wings for Aid, which with drones bring help to hard-to-reach places? If SMEs are asked why they have not taken the step abroad, they often indicate that they lack support. The various ways in which the government tries to help them are often far too complicated, even so complicated, that some entrepreneurs feel obliged to employ expensive consultants to benefit from the aid measures. Other entrepreneurs then give up completely. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is a mortal sin. A motion by the VVD to simplify the various instruments for trade promotion was adopted by the Chamber earlier this year. Can the Minister indicate what she has done in concrete terms since then to facilitate trade promotion for SMEs? Does the Minister have any idea which counters can be merged in accordance with the motion? Is the Minister willing, for example, to go in consultation with RVO to see if a system of case managers is possible, with one person of RVO helping an SME's to do business internationally within RVO? How, according to the Minister, can the International Sector of Invest-NL be implemented to ensure that SMEs can benefit from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u16	Before the summer recess, the Prime Minister declared during a VVD congress today that it is a festival called "the need to raise wages." Less than a week later, the former spokesperson of the VVD, Mr Van Haga, who is also in the Chamber today, said: yes, but not too much, because that is at the expense of our global trading position, which may be at the expense of exports. That was the VVD sound, which I hear today from Mr Weverling: trade is an end in itself and not a means to improve the lives of many Dutch people. Does Mr Weverling agree with Mr Van Haga? Is trade an end in itself and not a means to improve the lives of Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u17	That's an interesting question. Trade provides prosperity and jobs, so it is important that we trade. But in a way, trade is a means of maintaining our prosperity, helping the world and raising prosperity in other countries. That's what I'm here to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u18	That is good, because with this the VVD, together with us, notes that trade also has bad aspects and that it is simply not a good thing if trade leads to wage moderation, which it has been doing since the 1980s. Wages remain behind because the competitiveness of Dutch companies is more important than the quality of workers' lives. I believe that we should not only call on the cabinet to promote as much trade as possible, but also to look at its effects. I actually hear the VVD say that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u19	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u21	I see that Mr Weverling does not need to respond to that. It's okay. Mrs Ouwehand, you did not get it, but we agreed that six questions could be asked in the first period. Well, then you know it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u22	Mr President, I will see if there is one question for Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u23	That's my boy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u24	That's right, Mr. Chairman. There are not very often interfaces between the Party for Animals and the VVD, but when I see Mr Weverling, I always think: "Yes! Groente comes from the Westland, comes from the growers." Let his group have the opinion 'own vegetables first'. I think that is a good principle, because food supply must be regionalised. But when the VVD says 'own vegetables first', I do not understand why it is so uncritical of those trade agreements with Canada and Brazil, where farmers are allowed to use poisons that our farmers are not allowed to use. These conventions lead to imports of foreign vegetables, which are also produced under much lower standards than in the Netherlands. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u25	We have a separate debate on CETA, I say. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u26	Good trade agreements benefit global trade. We do business worldwide. We export our beautiful products worldwide, such as tomatoes, peppers, you name it. We can also import. That is why I think it is very good to conclude more trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u27	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u28	Oh, I thought there'd be another reply from Mrs. Ouwehand. I just wanted to ask you one more question. You indicate that you think it is important that there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u29	Mr. Weverling has indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u30	Oh, yes, excuse me, Mr. Weverling. If you don't, I'm gonna talk to the chairman. Mr Weverling stressed the importance of working with entrepreneurs to promote trade. How do you look at the entrepreneurs in the diaspora in this respect? There are a lot of entrepreneurs here in the Netherlands who have a lot of knowledge of countries in Africa, for example. They have many connections there, they speak the language, they want to set up all kinds of companies and they want to work with Dutch entrepreneurs. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u31	I take it from that that there's a bottleneck?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u32	The bottleneck is that the Ministry does not support that very enthusiastically to express it in those terms. I regret that, because I get the idea that we are constantly inventing the wheel in the Netherlands, while we have dozens of people in the Netherlands who, for example, come from Africa or other countries and who are connected. They could help Dutch entrepreneurs set up more trade in, for example, Africa. I was wondering how the VVD would look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u33	An interesting reflection of GroenLinks. I think it's good to use as much knowledge and skill as possible. If people want to make them available, I think this is a good idea. It's definitely good to do business in Africa. Especially there are many areas that can benefit from, for example, the Seed NL project, which I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u35	Mr. Chairman. There are indeed successes when it comes to trade promotion. Economic posts at embassies are often very successful. At the request of the VVD there will be more policy indicators on trade and there will be a support facility to help Dutch organisations make better use of the European Development Funds. The Minister works on trade missions abroad to help entrepreneurs in contacts and contracts. But that's not always without risk. It can't be that you're going on a trade mission and all your ideas have been hacked before you sell them. Last week was in the news that Belgian entrepreneurs on a trade mission in China have become victims of this. Can the Minister tell me if Dutch entrepreneurs on trade missions have similar experiences? If so, what has the Minister done to address this and how are entrepreneurs on trade missions, for example in China, helped to protect their intellectual property? Mr. Chairman. Before you spend money, you have to earn it first. And when you spend it, it must also be done as effectively as possible. So that brings me to development cooperation. You will hear from the speakers after me many poignant situations and urgent world problems. These are all problems, of which everyone will say: we must tackle this problem. That's like the pitfall. There is no shortage of wrongdoing and injustice in the world, but we cannot solve all the problems. That means making choices. Making choices is always difficult, but is even more difficult in development cooperation. For me, this is at the top of the list: if we do something, it must be effective, transparent and effective. It must have a measurable impact and we must also be able to justify the choices we make. There are undoubtedly many reports of famine, poverty and violence in the world at the Minister's office, as well as plans to deal with it. But there is also a pile of 13 reports on her desk, each saying: Minister, you need to focus more. Wanting to do a little bit everywhere doesn't make any sense. That cannot be explained to the taxpayer, nor can it be explained to the people we want to help. Can the Minister give an overview of the list of 13 reports she spoke about last week or two weeks ago during the VAO Civil Society? Can it not send all the reports but simply the list of those 13 reports to the Chamber? As far as I am concerned, this can simply be done in the written reply. Can the Minister explain, for example, why Dutch taxpayers' money is spent on projects in countries that really don't need it, such as China or Kazakhstan? And how does the Minister justify that we have an agreement on focus, but that we are still spending more money outside focus countries, namely 29%, than in there, namely 25%? Compared to last year, spending in focus regions only increases by 4%. Why is this financial shift going so slowly and why is the number of countries where we are active only increasing instead of being more focused? As mentioned above, more focus therefore creates more impact. In this way, we can better help the countries where we want to be active. Therefore, as far as the VVD is concerned, the use of development funds for lobbying in our own country must be stopped. Luckily, we're a free country. This gives each organisation the right to argue against cabinet policy. As far as the VVD is concerned, contradiction is good, but development money must be spent where it is most needed. That is not in the Netherlands itself. Nevertheless, the Ministry finances, for example, Milieudefensie, which received 8 million grants last year. According to the annual report of Milieudefensie, this money is spent, for example, on pleading and influencing within the framework of the Fair Green and Global Alliance, an action group that is actively committed to the termination of trade agreements. Does the Minister think that spending development money in the Netherlands is a good use of that budget? How does the Minister justify this to developing countries where the need is much higher? And does the Minister agree with me that we should stop supporting development funds from organisations that are actively trying to obstruct government policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u36	More focussing and making choices, I hear Mr Weverling say. Can we just focus on the budget for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation? It went up by 1 billion this year to nearly 6 billion. That's an astronomical amount. My question to Mr Weverling is: how the VVD allowed this to happen? The budget is rising much faster than in the previous cabinet. Then you were in a coalition with the PvdA. It seems to me that every decent VVD must be awake from this. So again, how did the VVD let this happen? Is it ever about that during that VVD carnival or festival, that party last Saturday, where the VVD celebrated the fact that she sewed another ear on the Dutch citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u37	Mr Weverling has to laugh about it himself. I wasn't there. So it's hard for me to correct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u38	I'll take a sip. You understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u39	Yeah, that's good. It's been fun, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u40	There is never a lack of that, Madam President. The expenditure on development money is linked to our national income. If that goes up, then that spending will also go up. That's the deal we made with each other. If more money is spent, this will not happen unbridled. This is linked to the fact that we also have more national income. I think that indirectly is a very good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u41	So the VVD is quite happy that 6 billion euros are now in the hands of this D66 crown princess. Well, that's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u42	Thank you. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u43	Look, the VVD is here arguing that we should deal effectively with development money, that it should not be voluntary, that there should be focus and that not everything should be possible. So I think that's an answer to a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u44	I do not know, but Mr Alkaya also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u45	The VVD says here that civil society organisations that are not in line with government policy here in the Netherlands should not be funded. I wonder whether the same applies to companies, for example companies which do not comply with the Paris Agreement, which pollute the environment or exploit those people. According to the VVD, shouldn't they also receive support from the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u46	The point is that we are bringing development money, which is intended for developing countries, to that end and that the NGOs on the ground are doing a good job with it, and that it is not being given to Dutch NGOs who in the Netherlands are arguing against government policy, which is precisely what we need in order to maintain our prosperity and to conclude trade agreements. That is, I think, the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u47	Of course, we have a very limited bag of money, 6 billion. Of course, it's nice to do all kinds of beautiful things with that. I said last year, from where you stand, that we should spend that money where it's best served, so where the highest return is achieved. You now call that "impact," so where we have the highest impact. Now I'm so curious how, when you look at that bag of money, you're going to determine where that highest impact will be achieved. For example, if the VVD has to fight birth control against building schools or helping penguins in Polynesia, how will the VVD determine where the biggest impact is made with an invested euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u48	We have talked about this recently. A policy framework has been developed for this and themes have been specified. Everything must be laid down along that measuring bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u49	I think that is very general: we have not yet got beyond a document containing the frameworks and we cannot yet make a clear picture of the impact of a euro that we are investing, for example, in education for girls in Tanzania or in CO reduction in Antarctica, because we are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u50	Sure, we're ready. For us, of course, in this policy framework, it is important to think about the root causes of migration, poverty and climate change, that sort of thing. They are simply important and they are all well identified in those themes. Then it is important that we focus, that we do it effectively and that we do not steer on output but on outcome. Because there's a lot we can do somewhere, but it's about what we end up with. Those are things I got in the transfer file, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u51	Your third question, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u52	That is very good to hear, but I would like to know what Mr Weverling's conclusion is. What are you going to put your 6 billion in, preferably? Is that birth control or is that something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u53	That is a range of measures, which we have discussed before in an AA. It is important for us that it is done effectively, that it is transparent and that it is made clearly visible. It's all taxpayers' money, so we just need to know very clearly where that's going. And not only that; we also need to know what happens to it and what its effects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u54	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u55	In addition to effectiveness, transparency must also be a spearhead. As far as the VVD is concerned, the taxpayer has the right to see exactly where development money is going and what is being achieved, as is the case with other expenditures. A lack of transparency leads to a lack of support. Fortunately, last year the Chamber adopted a motion by VVD and PVV asking the government to collect all the results and data on one website. We are now a year further and it is not fast enough as far as I am concerned. I've asked the Minister before what she needs for this. Why, for example, does it take so long for the Minister to publish more information on her policy objectives in accordance with last year's Court of Auditors report? What deadline has the Minister set for publishing all the expenditure and results in one place, wherever all the objectives, results, transactions and reports are visible, so that everyone can easily control this? Can the Minister make a commitment that next year's budget treatment will ensure that expenditure in all countries where money is going, i.e. not the 20 we are talking about, is transparent on one website and accessible to all? Mr. Chairman. We are one of the most generous countries in the world. Unfortunately, this is sometimes taken advantage of. Because we are so generous, others think that their contribution is no longer necessary. This is seen, for example, in the Dutch contribution to the UN Emergency Aid Fund CERF. We are the third donor of this fund in the world, which, of course, is not entirely proportionate. In December there will be another meeting of all donor countries on the agenda. Does the Minister agree with me that other countries should also come to terms because our contribution to CERF is disproportionate to that of other countries? Can the Minister promise that at that meeting with donor countries in December she will demand firm commitments on a fair contribution from other rich countries to CERF? In addition to emergency aid in conflict areas for people affected by war or violence, we also offer safety in the Netherlands to people fleeing from earl or violence. Unfortunately, here too, we sometimes take advantage of our generosity. Indeed, some developing countries refuse to participate in the withdrawal of their nationals who are not entitled to asylum. There are countries in North Africa among them, where a lot of Dutch tax money goes to. But helping the Netherlands to implement our right of asylum is still a step too far. It is obvious that countries that refuse to do so will no longer benefit from development money. Unfortunately, that possibility has not yet been used. Instead, this wrong behavior is actually rewarded. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to look seriously at withholding development money from countries that do not want to participate in return. Can the Minister indicate how much budget is specifically available for return cooperation and how much more money can be used for this if the cabinet makes more work of this? For which countries has this budget already been committed and what amounts are involved? How will the Minister use this budget, not only according to the more-for-more principle, but also in the context of less-for-less? Is the government flexible in deploying ODA money to build capacity in return countries, for example for better population registration, travel documents and border management? Does the Minister agree with me that it is necessary to use all possible instruments to force countries to cooperate in the return of asylum seekers? When has the Minister reached the border and will she stop spending tax money in countries that do not want to cooperate until concrete agreements have been reached? Mr. Chairman. I've come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u56	Before reaching a conclusion, Mr Bouali would like to ask a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u57	I hear the VVD colleague talking about coercion and the feeling of countries in North Africa; strong language of my VVD colleague. But we do not really give so much development cooperation to those countries in North Africa. That's not so bad. My question to him is very specific: doesn't he think we'll get along better if we start with these countries? Then we can just talk quietly, instead of knocking on the door of those countries, putting the knife on the table and coming up with threats right away. Isn't it just wiser to talk to these countries first? We have a number of common challenges worldwide. Those countries have problems too. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u58	Talking is always good. So I would certainly be enthusiastic about that. But the questions I asked the Minister will certainly remain. In the end, we have also expressed this as such in the coalition agreement. I'm sure you'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u59	We hear the VVD talking about a theme that swallows up a large portion of the ODA budget, namely 22% for migration and reception in the region. We often hear this cabinet about investing in root causes. But what are these root causes? These are conflicts, climate change and growing inequality in the world. We have seen that inequality in the world has only increased further over the past year. I will say a few words about it in a moment. I haven't actually heard the VVD about this growing inequality. I am very curious whether Mr Weverling could say anything about that. How does he see the growing gap between rich and poor, those 26 billionaires who have become richer in the past year than the poorest half of the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u60	It is therefore very important that we position the Netherlands in the right way and that we use our knowledge and skills in all these countries. I have argued that we have a great deal of knowledge and skills to bring prosperity and economic development to countries. So I would say, let's do business worldwide in the VVD way, because then we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u61	The problem is that a very large proportion of this growing inequality is caused by companies that sometimes avoid tax. A very large part of the migration that the VVD would like to combat with ODA money is caused by the growing inequality that is partly caused by companies. Is Mr Weverling therefore prepared to look with us at proposals to combat this inequality? Is he prepared, for example, to talk about how we are going to ensure that companies pay their taxes properly and not, as is very often the case today, only make poor countries poorer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u62	I think it is very good to look together at how we can offer countries more prosperity and how we can make countries self-sufficient. That's what I've been trying to explain. We started it ourselves centuries ago by growing in the open ground. This is what we are trying to do with the Seed NL project in other countries. It is precisely this prosperity, for example the knowledge and skill of growing a product to become self-sufficient, that is extremely important. Of course, it is in everyone's interest to use that word once and for all to make the gap as small as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u63	I actually had a more philosophical question, I would almost say, to Mr Weverling. Over the last ten years, we have to note that the ODA budget is, therefore, one piece of paper that I have just brought has lapsed from 0.81% to 0.53% this year. Of course, that is not at all close to 0.7%, the starting point that we should actually have in the budget. Can Mr Weverling tell us how he sees it when he sees that a country such as the United Kingdom, in spite of everything, with all the cuts they have had there and with the conservative governments they have always had there or for a long time, has always maintained the 0.7% for the English budget? How does this relate to Dutch conservative thinking and the ODA budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u64	That's a philosophical question from Mrs. Diks. We made these agreements with each other in the negotiations for the current coalition agreement. The amount's rising. You have heard this in response to the questions of the PVV. That's because our gross national income is rising. We think it is important that when money is spent, it ends well. We must try to strengthen prosperity in countries. We also consider it important that money is spent effectively and not without commitment. So I think we're doing a good job in a way, as long as there's enough focus and it's clear that we can't do everything. We have to do it together according to the right measuring bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u65	As a result of your reply, I get the impression that you think that less money is being spent on development cooperation in the Netherlands, because it might not be well spent. But of course that is not the reason why development cooperation in the United Kingdom still accounts for 0.7% of the budget. My question was how can it be that the Tories, who in that sense are not really known as very peaceful, are always very much in favour of this. They are proud of it and say: we will probably maintain our commitment to spend 0.7% on development. They really insist that they do. But I never hear the VVD say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u66	If we go hand in hand with the principle of aid and trade, I think we can think about that. Aid and trade are good for our prosperity and for prosperity in the other countries that can benefit from our knowledge and skills. So who knows what the future has to offer in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u68	I'll come to a conclusion. Without prosperity, no one can sail. We are ahead of many other countries in that respect. But to maintain our employment and prosperity, an active, facilitating and coordinating trade policy is essential, not only for us but also for helping less fortunate countries. Therefore, we should not be ashamed of what our companies have to offer, but rather facilitate them if they want to work in developing countries. That's how the knife cuts both ways. Where economic development is still a step too far, we must strive for as much focus as possible and thus as much impact as possible. In the end, it will benefit everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I now give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks. No, Mrs. Diks, I see you're talking to the Minister, but I really can't. Only if the meeting is suspended or closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u70	Oh, I see I'm gonna have to make my text a little bigger. Sorry. I was too positive about my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u71	This does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every day trillions of dollars fly virtually across the world, but 700 million people still live in extreme poverty, with less than 1.9 dollars a day. Great progress has been made, also thanks to development cooperation, but we are far from there. Based on the current projections, we're not going to make SDG 1. Indeed, by 2030, 0.5 billion people will still live in extreme poverty. Meanwhile, the climate crisis is getting worse every day. This year, too, the poorest, who have contributed least to this, have suffered the most. Cyclone Idai demanded the life of 1,200 Mozambicans in March and caused damage worth 2,5 billion. That's 20% of Mozambican GDP. In the Netherlands, for example, we would be talking about a storm damage of 160 billion. In view of all this, I wonder how the Dutch ODA could reach the lowest percentage since 1969 by 2020. We've been talking about it for a while. How does the Minister feel about this? This cabinet is committed to work towards 0.7% in 2030, thereby contributing to the SDGs. But that is inconsistent, because it should have been achieved by 2030. During this period of government, consideration would still be given to possible additional steps, if the budget allows it. We also have a huge budget surplus this year. Then why isn't that extra step being taken? Mr. Chairman. Then there are my specific questions. Will the Minister undertake to repair the three structural reductions in the next Spring note? Does it want to set up a roadmap to go back to 0.7% by 2030? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to climate finance. The promise of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u73	Yes, I also see Mr Bouali, probably on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u74	Indeed, on the previous point. I can already see my colleague from GroenLinks laughing, because she probably already knows what I am going to ask. GroenLinks always argues that we should focus on development cooperation. In addition, you will always find my party by your side. What I find so disappointing is that you always have a huge laundry list of things that you would like extra. We also had this discussion last year. Last year you included zero euros in your counter-budget, together with your colleagues from the SP and the Labour Party. This year, you've done it again. Last year I asked you about it. Maybe it slipped between your fingers at the time. But why didn't you put extra money into that counter-budget again this year? This minister does, however, take additional money with him in the current government agreement, namely an additional 0.5 billion. Then why do you have a somewhat negative story? Why aren't you positive about this cabinet investing again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u75	GroenLinks is of course always happy and satisfied when more investment is made in development cooperation. That is one of the pillars of our electoral programme. We think that is extremely important. That counter-budget was, of course, a more general story. That has come up a few times before. So we have not indicated on all points what we want to spend more money on. We've just made a general, more financial story. In this sense, the three parties making the counter-budget obviously also have room for their own nuance. So you cannot deduce from the counter-budget that GroenLinks does not want to bring more money to development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u76	I continue to regret it, because indeed, this cabinet is investing well again. We went down hard, but now we slowly but surely go up again. We're trying to get to 0.7%. You say you have it in your election program. I would advise you to include it in your counter-budget next time. If it's as important as you mention it here, it's not just a thing. Then you'll just have to record it and you'll have to make money for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u77	What I said was that we described in the counter-budget what the three parties that have submitted this counter-budget would like. There is room for self- nuance and self-interest in this for all three parties that these parties consider important. Mr Bouali shakes his head, but I'm going over my own counter-budget, I suppose. He's giving me some advice. I'll think about it if it's wise to do that. Then we still have a little bit of discussion, but I don't know if it works both ways, that Mr Bouali says we're going up again. For the time being, the ODA budget has been the lowest since.. what did I say? 1969. That is what we must note, with the importance you attach to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u78	Well, that's right. The unfortunate thing is that your colleague from the Labour Party has been severely pruned under the previous cabinet. If we had not intervened, we would have been even lower, namely 0.48%. The trend is now back up. I hope you can see that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u79	Yeah, okay, but then it's a trend up, 'cause it's small. I find it difficult, in itself, for you to go back to a previous cabinet, which you and we were not in, to say afterwards that it did not do that right. I think that's a complicated route. Eventually, there was a majority in the Chamber to choose that budget. We did not agree with that, but there was a majority in the Chamber for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u80	This was your fifth question, Mr. Bouali, and you're almost through. It's going faster than you think. And Mrs. Diks is just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u81	Yeah, exactly, so that gives hope for the rest of this story. I believe that I was on climate finance and the promise of $100 billion that would be spent on it. Will the Minister state clearly whether she supports the Dutch fair share of EUR 1.25 billion in this? In New York, our Prime Minister said that the Netherlands spends more than a billion dollars on climate programmes. Does this minister classify that statement as correct? According to GroenLinks, this is not pure. Firstly, half of this billion is made up of private funding mobilised. That is not actually a Dutch issue, but of the Netherlands, for example. Nor is it transparent. The Court calls on the Minister to better understand how much public funds have been used to mobilise these private investments, i.e. the lever. In one of the responses, the Minister states that it is very difficult and complex to aggregate these figures, but frankly we do not understand why this is so difficult. Why can it be for the AEF, the Access to Energy Fund, and the IDF, the Infrastructure Development Fund, but not for the rest? Can the Minister promise that she will describe this in more detail? And how does the cabinet guarantee that the use of these public funds will then lead to additional investments that would not otherwise have taken place? The degree of additionality is now quite unclear to me. Secondly, much of the public climate funding is not yet allocated to climate programmes. Funding for a school with solar panels on the roof is now 40%, because climate is a secondary objective. Aside from the fact that all these goals are valuable, I am concerned about the calculation. With further mainstreaming of climate, we can give up the entire BuHa-OS budget as climate finance. For example, the Minister confirms that 40% of the contribution of 31 million to the Private Infrastructure Development Group is included. We have looked at the website of that fund. There are all kinds of investments in ports, airports, mines and a lot of gas plants. At most 20% goes to renewable energy. Conclusion: on this expenditure alone, we count 6 million, at least in our opinion, too much as climate finance. Some of them are also being invested in fossil fuels. I can figure that out with little effort. Then why can't the Ministry report in more detail? Can the Minister, therefore, now indicate what part of climate finance comes from this 40% rule? And will it undertake not to just apply that 40% rule for larger expenditure, but to really find out more precisely which part of it is climate-relevant? The United Kingdom is already doing this. Mr. Chairman. Mobilised private capital mainly goes to migration in middle income countries and much less to adaptation in least developed countries. There's a huge challenge right there. Will the Minister make clear commitments on Dutch public climate finance, aimed at the least developed countries for the period up to 2025 and beyond? That is what we are talking about. We can do that through the United Nations Green Climate Fund. The Netherlands already contributed much less per capita to this than other European countries, and that ratio has actually only become slimmer. France, Germany and the United Kingdom have recently doubled their contribution, while the Netherlands only increased by 20%. Does the Minister intend to make extra money available in the spring note to bring our contribution to the European level as well? Mr. Chairman. From climate finance to anti-climate finance. Dutch export credit insurance companies support more than 1 billion euros per year in new investments in the fossil industry. That is exactly as much as the total climate finance. Well, I was never that good at math, but I've always learned that one minus one is just zero, so what exactly are we doing? President Macron called supporting fossil investment a "policy inconsistency." Does the Minister agree with the French President on this point? Today, the Emissions Gap Report of the United Nations came out with shocking observations. Global emissions continue to rise. Is the Minister prepared to strengthen its policy further on the basis of these observations? Is it prepared to set up a coalition with France and other similar countries in order to phase out support for the fossil industry through export credit insurance as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, our entire trade policy is full of such policy inconsistencies. GroenLinks is for trade, as long as it serves the interests of humans, animals, nature and the environment. Unfortunately, the current generation of trade agreements has been written on the basis of the interests of large companies and wealthy investors. Globalisation must serve all of us, not just the richest 1%. Since the provisional entry into force of CETA, the oil industry has been the biggest winner, it seems, when we look at the trade figures. The Mercosur agreement also poses a direct threat to the Amazon forest, which is already being cut at a breathtaking pace to turn it into new agricultural land. We need to break the trend. We must act with the future in mind. GroenLinks wants a radical change, by focusing trade agreements on removing barriers to products whose production is not accompanied by damage to humans, animals, nature and the environment. A good example of this is the green goods agreement, but unfortunately the negotiations have been suspended for three years. The energy invested by the established order in Europe in trade agreements serving multinationals is in stark contrast to the time and attention that this agreement receives. So I ask the Minister: is she prepared to consider whether the Netherlands can draw up a proactive agenda for the pursuit of this kind of treaties? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The imvo agreements are still not progressing sufficiently. The Minister, too, seems now to be aware of the fact that something needs to be done to actually enforce the standards. Unfortunately, in many parts of the business world, the resounding call for fast money is still louder than the call for fair trade and production. The various sectors have now really had enough time to take care of it themselves, but some, unfortunately even most, seem to refuse to do so. Then I'd say, if the carrot doesn't work, just the stick. But what the minister wants to do in her "mix of measures" we won't hear for another year. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that is a long way away. Is the Minister prepared to say that in this mix of measures there will be at least enough compelling measures to ensure that Dutch industry goes to 100% implementation of the OECD guidelines? And, for God's sake, can we set a good example as a government ourselves? Surely it is impossible for our own development bank FMO to be involved in exploiting employees and dumping toxic waste on three palm oil plantations in Congo? And this isn't the first time FMO has crossed the line. Also in the affair with mining company Kenmare it became clear that the development bank is not dirty of tax avoidance. In 2016, even a company that FMO financed in Honduras killed human rights activist Berta Cáceres. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is time for an independent investigation into compliance with the IMMO standards at FMO. Is the Minister prepared to set that up? Is it at least prepared to call on the FMO to stop litigation in Honduras with all kinds of expensive lawyers and simply allow the victims to compensate instead? Mr. Chairman. Last week, at my request, the Chamber held a round table on the negotiations on the commitment treaty for the respect of human rights by business. It was clear from that discussion that, although the Netherlands is in principle constructive, the Minister could do more to further the negotiation process. Is it prepared, for example, to have a study of what would be needed to get countries such as Japan, Norway and Canada back on the table by now? It's a bit of a repetition last week, but well, that's just the way it is with the budget. Moreover, now that a new European Commission has been appointed, an EU negotiating mandate can be requested. Has this process already started and if not, when will that happen? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. With the Dutch OS money many projects are financed. Every day thousands of people work hard in the Ministry, in NGOs and in companies to achieve good results. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we pay extra attention to the most vulnerable, for example girls at risk of circumcision. Last year, the Chamber adopted an amendment to increase the resources for combating this practice, but a change in culture does not, of course, take place overnight. In order to eradicate female genital mutilation worldwide before 2030, this increased commitment is urgently needed in the coming years. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mrs van den Hul, namely No. 14, to make that increase structural now. Mr. Chairman. Young people with disabilities or psychosocial needs also deserve special attention. The Minister was right to work to raise psychosocial support in emergency situations. We welcome this. But to really improve things and to strengthen the Dutch lead role, additional resources are also needed. That is why I have tabled an amendment to increase the contribution to Education Cannot Wait, specifically to make education in emergency situations more compatible with the needs of young people with disabilities or psychological needs. Of all the children in the world who don't go to school, more than a third have a disability. The Global Partnership for Education pays special attention to this group. Unfortunately, reality teaches that, if they do go through school curricula, it is also particularly difficult to move on to vocational education or a job afterwards. Will the Minister urge the GPE to also work on this transition, for example by promoting role models or training young people with disabilities to teach? Mr. Chairman. We often talk about the fragmentation of the OS bet. The BuHa-OS budget runs through hundreds, if not hundreds, of funds, jars and projects. Although we are moving towards less and less focus countries, it now seems that the focus countries remain fragmented. The fact that we work less with and through local authorities contributes to this. Around the 2005 Paris Declaration, much attention was paid to the ownership agenda and the use of local systems. What's left of the whole agenda? Because the Netherlands has stopped providing budget support, depositing money into the account of the local Ministry of Finance, but it seems that we have remained completely away from working with and via local governments since then, while there are, of course, intermediate variants. Does the Minister agree with me? The OECD has an indicator of ownership, the share of Country Programmable Aid. For the Netherlands, this has been halved in the last ten years, from 30% to 16%. In the United Kingdom it is still 30% and in Germany it is 32%, while Germany has also stopped providing budget support. How does the Minister explain this difference? In the latest peer review report, the OECD calls on the Netherlands to make more use of local systems. To what extent does this budget meet the recommendations of that report? Is she prepared to write down how we can get this special aid back up in the coming years without going back to general budget support? Mr. Chairman. I understand that working with governments in our partner countries is not always easy, but ultimately a capable government is indispensable for all our goals, whether it be education, a healthy entrepreneurial environment or combating climate change. In order, for example, to protect forest areas, local authorities must, of course, be able to manage forests sustainably. But Ministries of Environment and related public authorities often do not have the capacity and resources to do so. Then two underpaid forest rangers with one car have to guard and manage a forest area the size of three Dutch provinces. They are, of course, completely unopposed to lumberjacks and armed poachers. That is why I have tabled an amendment to support this type of agency in our bilateral programmes in partner countries. Finally, I will return to SDG 1, which I also started with. The cabinet often talks about tackling root causes of poverty. Does the Minister agree that poverty itself, an actual lack of money, is also one of the root causes of poverty? Last month, the Nobel Prize for Economics went to three development economists for their rigorous research into poverty reduction. One of the interventions that comes out consistently positive after all kinds of investigations is the actual giving of money to the poor, and in particular to women. With cash money they can invest in their health, in better food, in education for their children and in their own businesses. Because they mainly spend this money on local, non-imported products and services, it is also very positive and a huge boost for local economies there. Of course, cash transfers are not a panacea for development as such, because of course they also depend on the institutional aspects that I have just mentioned. There must therefore be a two-track policy. Cash transfers are certainly an effective tool in the fight against poverty. Does the Minister agree with me? Responsible development agencies such as DFID, the Department for International Development from the United Kingdom, and the World Bank have been increasingly committed to giving cash over the past decade. For example, DFID already accounts for more than 250 million a year, outside humanitarian aid, targeting groups such as pregnant women and young mothers. The UK government's evaluation service has recommended further strengthening cash transfers, as it has proved to be a very efficient way of using OS money. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is lagging behind in this area. In response to factual questions, the Minister states that cash transfers to refugees are being made through the United Nations. That is a good thing in itself, but it is about emergency aid. I understand from this that cash transfers are not used to tackle extreme poverty in the least developed countries. There are many possible variants: conditional or unconditional, targeted or unfocused, and so on. In the meantime, mobile money, as it is called, has penetrated almost every corner of the African continent. This also makes organizing the cash transfers and measuring the impact much easier. We know we can do this. We know this is gonna work. Let us also work on it from the Netherlands. Is the Minister willing to work out an experiment with me and set it up in one of our African focus countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u82	Well, I'm kind of freaking out about cash transfers. How does Mrs. Diks see that? How does that money end up with people? How are we gonna check that out? Don't you get a huge... I don't have a visual on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u83	I understand your question. I also appreciate you putting him this way. I'm distracting from that, and I also feel that you really want to know what's going on. I imagine it sounds very complicated for a party like the VVD to give cash money to someone. You sleep more quietly when it's spent through organizations. However, I may be able to hand over 10 to 15 studies, all from major institutes such as MIT, the World Bank and you name it, which indicate that this is a very fast method of really helping people out of poverty right away. The moment you start giving cash money to people who are poor, the assumption is often that they're going to buy the wildest things from it, like booze and cigarettes, I say just as maternalistic. That's incorrect. It has all been proven a hundred times by scientific research that this is wrong. People who get cash money are going to invest that very strongly in their own region. They're gonna buy school supplies for their kids. They're going to invest in their company. They're gonna build a house, you name it. Those are all things you also want from the VVD. If people in poor countries get richer, they can act more. The same could happen with Dutch companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u84	Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u85	Oh, you thought I wanted to ask another follow-up question. Yeah, that's right. I'm thinking. And is it going to be in a way that we used to know here, with a paycheck? Are they going to report to the head of the village? Or are you gonna throw that off planes? That's how I ask Mrs. Diks. Or is there gonna be an ATM somewhere? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u86	I thought a party like the VVD is always very interested in technology and innovation and to use it to work smarter. Cash transfers really are an example of that. A lot of people have phones these days. That's very cheap. Also in the smallest villages in Africa people have a telephone. The fun of a phone like that is that it's very easy to reach them on the phone. So you can very well follow the actual impact of the money you give. Even more interesting is that you can measure it on that phone, because you can just call people. You can follow them. So you can see exactly... You laugh at it, but you can see exactly where someone is and what they did with their money. You're very good at measuring that. I can really give you more information about that. Maybe it's good to do that bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u87	Well, you, Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u88	I'm a little surprised, though, because I think they can also send a Tikki to the minister. But without madness, that could be very effective, because with that we simply need fewer organisations and civil servants. Then we just deposit the money directly at once to people in those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u89	It was a long story, so I imagine you haven't heard everything. But I just indicated that I think it's very important that you pursue a two-track policy. A lot of countries are already committed to cash transfers. It's really not news. What you can actually see is that the Netherlands is lagging behind. That is crazy, because in terms of development aid we should always be a forerunner, a guide country. A lot of countries already do that, on good grounds. I've just indicated that there's been a lot of research on it. But at the same time, of course, you must also ensure that you continue to support institutions and governance in such a country. Of course, we have plenty of these programmes, but I sincerely believe that it might be good to at least ask if the Minister is interested in this and to run pilots with us to see what the effect is. Then you can measure the impact and we'll talk about it again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u90	Mr. Weverling, do you understand how it works?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u91	It is becoming increasingly clear to me, but I nevertheless foresee a major problem for civil society. You are so concerned about civil society, because they will have nothing to do in a moment. All these NGOs go to the begging staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u92	It is in itself a good thing that you are concerned about civil society organisations at the end of the AA. So we're gonna take them all with us. But I have just indicated that a number of things are also important in those countries. That is the development of democratisation and governance, the strengthening of state structures. I just talked about that. And the free press, not to mention. That's part of what those NGOs do. That's why we can do it so nicely with a two-track policy. But I'm going to give you more information about this later. I understand your wonder, but I know it works because it's been proven hundreds, thousands or millions of times. So I dare bring that with dry eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u93	Thank you, Mrs Diks. Oh, Mr Amhaouch also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u94	I would like to continue with this because I have a number of questions to ask. The first question is whether GroenLinks genuinely wants to give cash to people in third countries who need a sustainable economy in the short term. What I have a bit of a problem with is that Mrs Diks often points a finger from the Chamber, whether it is FMO or other organisations. I'd like to say something about that. The Netherlands as a guide country indeed has an organisation like FMO that does large projects in high-risk countries, to produce pure water or food for children or to help farmers in those countries. Something could go wrong there. Then the attitude of GroenLinks should be: we will investigate that and if something is wrong, we will learn from it. That's how we should do it with NGOs. If FMO or an NGO makes a mistake in these risky countries, we should not try to turn their necks and point a finger at them here from the Chamber. So the question is whether GroenLinks really genuinely wants to help people sustainably get a living wage, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u95	Yes. I can really go a few ways with this question, so I have to choose. Let me start at the beginning. Of course, I fully understand that the FMO works in very fragile states and that it is really difficult. We were just talking about working together in places where there is hardly any governance. I'm very aware of that. But no sustainable economic development can be built on murder. That just doesn't exist. I don't believe in that, and you don't believe in that. So it has to be that FMO is going to act even tighter on that. Let me put it this way. One of the things that I've finally gotten excited about is the Honduras case. That was the case of Mrs. Cáceres, who was murdered. I'm terrified the moment I hear they're going to hire lawyers for a lot of money to keep that case from their bodies. I'm thinking, put that money, if you're gonna put it in place, to improve the circumstances of those people over there, and just compensate them instead of shoving off the responsibility with a lawsuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u96	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by stressing that the additional resources this cabinet spends on development cooperation are in line with my group's priorities. In order to address the root causes of migration, a broad focus is needed on education, for economic perspective, for the most vulnerable, such as girls and people with disabilities, for health issues and for conflict prevention. Let me give you a few concrete examples. The Netherlands is leading a programme on behalf of the EU Member States to strengthen refugee reception in the Horn of Africa, with the aim of improving the protection of refugees, special attention for women and girls, better prospects for the communities receiving the refugees and opportunities for refugees to live, work and follow education outside the camps. Another example. Targeted at improving food security, water and climate change adaptation in the Sahel. And three. In the MENA region and the Horn of Africa, more emphasis is placed on strengthening the resilience of small-scale food producers in the event of a crisis. Those are three nice examples I wanted to pick out. With the few resources we have, we know how to achieve an incredibly high return and contribute to achieving the SDGs. Soon my colleague Mustafa Amhaouch will deal with the trade section. I would now like to address the following issues: trafficking in human beings, reception in the region, protection of civil society, global health, people with disabilities and internationalisation. Let me start with a few headlines from recent weeks. On 23 November we read the news about a young woman who reports to her mother: "My trip abroad is not successful. Mom, I love you so much. I die because I can't breathe." She was one of the 39 victims who died in a truck in the English town of Grays. The message goes through marrow and bone. The young woman is a face behind the numbers. Also in the Netherlands people are discovered in trucks. November 6: sixteen climbers found in the back of truck IJmuiden. November 7: eight climbers jump out of truck with fruit in Ridderkerk. And I can go on like this for a while. I would like to point out that these distressing situations are getting closer and closer, while the solution is often far beyond the Dutch and European borders. Trafficking in human beings is a multifaceted monster, against which the attack must be chosen from different policy areas. There is progress in the programme Together against trafficking in human beings, but I want more to happen from an OS perspective. Trafficking in human beings isn't just about people sitting in the back of a truck. It is also about forced prostitution and other forms of sexual abuse, organ trafficking, slavery and child trafficking. During the 2014-2015 refugee stream, at least 10,000 children were lost. Can you imagine 10,000 children; 10,000 times an AMBER Alert in a year? Where are these kids now? The people who took these children to Europe, on rubber boats, the people who facilitate this journey, must be deprived of all means. It is estimated that EUR 150 billion will be made annually, resulting in 40 million people who are victims of trafficking in human beings. We know that Europe's appeal is great and migration is timeless, but people who make a business model of hopelessly underprivileged people are not entrepreneurs, but tough criminals. They are heartless human traffickers on whom international manhunts must be made. This is in the field of Justice and Foreign Affairs, but here too, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation can strengthen the approach. We already support the IOM and UNHCR in providing reception for these migrants in North African countries and Niger, but the CDA calls for a broader commitment to address root causes of human trafficking. It is precisely development work that takes place where many people start trafficking. It is crucial to recognise and identify trafficking in human beings and trafficking networks, as well as to ensure a rapid connection and better cooperation with organisations that fight trafficking in human beings. Prevention is the strength of development aid. Providing perspective is important, so that people do not come to the decision or are forced into a situation to lay their fate in the hands of human traffickers. In addition, the knowledge of victims is also valuable to combat trafficking in human beings. The use of the root causes of trafficking in human beings to prevent trafficking in human beings is therefore crucial to tackle the multi-faceted monster of trafficking in human beings. Then I'll come to care in the region. Africa's demographic growth and the lack of perspective for people are two developments that Europe too has to deal with and will have much more to do with if nothing happens. Europe cannot be the way out for hopelessness in Africa, but it is also understandable that people without perspective are looking elsewhere for perspective. I therefore believe that this is precisely why we have an important responsibility to help people to have a better life in their own country. I don't want to look away from this growing problem. That's why the focus on youth in our OS policy is so important. An example of a programme on which I have tabled a motion together with my colleague from the Christian Union is the establishment of the Challenge Fund. The fund was launched last week. The commitment is to create a future perspective for 200,000 men and women in Africa and the Middle East by investing in decent work and income. Bet on perspective. Can the Minister address the question of how the region next to this fund is being supported, and so there are several funds that are being supported in the reception of migrants? How can we contribute to stability, including in the framework of good governance? To give just one example, if a city has to accommodate hundreds of thousands of people, that also brings logistical challenges. Just think about the logistics to collect waste. Is the expertise of us or other countries used to help the regions? Mr. Chairman. Protecting the protectors. We have already discussed this in the debate on the subsidy framework. Worldwide, civil society organisations are under pressure. Often you can see when unrest in a country is caused by a regime change, by anti-NGO legislation or by revolution. Local NGOs sit in society's capillaries, fight for freedoms and often form the last form of protection for people no one looks at anymore. Civil society organisations should not only be able to act adequately on tilting moments to reverse the situation, but also to continue their crucial work, often precisely why they are under attack. I would therefore ask the Minister to examine what is needed to make flexible resources available in the event of sudden changes, for example through embassies, in order to provide legal assistance in court cases or other support to halt the further disappearance of civil society. I ask the Minister to report on this for the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u98	A word on the previous point: reception in the region. I was just talking about it with Mr. Weverling. Where there is shelter in the region, it is often not the place where the root causes of migration take place. Those root causes are often in places further away. These root causes, which I have just mentioned, are very often conflicts, but also climate change, on which, unfortunately, the North of the world also has quite a footprint, and growing inequality. How does Mrs Kuik view the growing inequality as the root cause of migration? Does she agree with us that this might be the root cause of migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u99	It is also due to the situation in each country why people are fleeing. It can be because of violence and war, but it can also be because there is no perspective. It is important that we use perspective in the countries from which people leave because of these root causes, but we must also offer people who are already in those regions a perspective. For it cannot be that people who have fled and are in camps have no future there. You have to look at how you invest in education and opportunities. You also have to invest in people going back to the country they came from, to get to work there. So it's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u100	And-and it's for sure, but I still don't hear anything about that global inequality I've been talking about, those 26 richest people in the world, mostly men, who are only getting richer and richer, even over the past year. How does that relate to our commitment to those root causes of migration? How's the CDA looking at that? How are we going to tackle this inequality worldwide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u101	We are standing here on a budget in which we are dealing with this very issue. Of course, we want to strike a better balance where people are in a very bad situation, so people are in extreme poverty. That is a justified point, and it is precisely in this budget that we want to reduce the balance. Mr. Chairman. Dan global health, in good Dutch: global healthcare. The CDA sees the need to strengthen the health infrastructure, by stimulating medical innovations and by distributing medicines. I would like to mention two points in particular. As an ambassador against tuberculosis, of course, I will begin with this. A successful vaccine for tuberculosis has recently been developed, which is now entering the phase III study. The result of this vaccine can be very successful, because people cannot yet be vaccinated against the disease. The vaccine has been developed from Dutch OS resources via a PDP program and offers a possible start to a total global elimination of TB. The Netherlands thus contributes to a global response to TB. Will the Minister make an effort to continue to support this development path? Over 600 people are exposed to five tropical diseases that receive little attention, the negative tropical diseases. Five tropical diseases are responsible for a large number of social and medical problems. These diseases are located in Sub-Saharan regions, the focus regions. About 200 million people are now exposed and not achieved in terms of prevention. I therefore call on the Minister, within the WTO's contributions, to pay attention to the prevention project ASPEN, which is also covered by the WHO. Mr. Chairman. In its policy, the Minister pays attention to people with disabilities, but in practice this often means that attention to those people is part of a social inclusion fund. That's a broad theme. For example, we also focus on girls, but in the end it is about how the position of people with disabilities is an integral part of the programmes. The CDA asks the Minister to specify this in terms of programmes, so that it is visible how the basic principles "leave no one behind" are implemented. Finally. Last year I tabled a motion during the budget debate to use MBO expertise in the OS domain, while also introducing students at MBO level to development aid. Little has yet come of this, and I would ask the Minister to indicate before the spring note with the Ministry of Education and Science how the use of expertise on the one hand and awareness among MBOs of the opportunities and challenges of peers elsewhere in the world can be strengthened on the other. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u102	I am very happy to listen to my colleague Anne Kuik, who is addressing a number of challenges. She is always very positive about the BuHa-OS agenda. I believe that we are both satisfied that additional investments are being made by this cabinet. We've all worked hard on that. To my great delight I recently learned that a motion was adopted at the CDA Congress calling for that 0.7%. How does Mrs Kuik intend to implement this? Can she carry out that motion as a CDA? And does she want to go with me to go slowly but surely to that 0.7% in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u103	This outstretched hand, of course, I'll take it. Indeed, at our conference it has been pointed out how important it is to invest in development aid, in development cooperation. So we will also be committed to increasing that percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u104	I was just having second thoughts. Of course, I am also against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. It's terrible what you've been telling us. We'll find each other there. But in the end it is not in their interest to take back people who come here from the countries they come from. Because with that there is no incentive to stay in their own country. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u105	Mr Weverling started his question with a reference to trafficking in human beings. Just so we're clear, are we talking about people who are victims of human trafficking and do you want those people back in the situation they were in? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u106	Last question, huh? Or are you going to respond to Mrs. Kuik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u107	This was indeed for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u108	Okay, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u109	Of course, it is terrible that these people are victims of human trafficking, but they pay money to go to a better world. If they come from countries with which there is no good deal, which do not cooperate if the people who come this way are sent back to the country of origin, then is there some kind of perverse incentive? That's counterproductive, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u110	I think that we need to look at which countries are involved and we need to have a discussion with those countries. There must also be a safety net there for the people who have been victims of trafficking in human beings. You have to give them perspective there, so they don't fall back into the hands of human traffickers. The follow-up to these people is therefore also very important. Mr Weverling pointed out that there were countries that did not take these people back. I believe that we must have clarity about which countries they are and that we must enter into talks with those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u112	Mr. Chairman. Last year, this cabinet came up with a trade agenda that should give an impetus to the Dutch economy. This is an important first step of the cabinet to position the Netherlands in a world that is in full swing. Again, congratulations on that. But in my opinion, the great international task we have lacks a firm ambition in implementation. I think that the pace of following up on this trade agenda is too limited. Perhaps it has to do with the fact that the Dutch Ministry of Trade is not a real Ministry of Trade. Or am I wrong? Perhaps the Ministry is not set up to realize our trading ambitions in the current context. Does the Minister share my analysis? Does it also see new challenges coming in view of the new dynamics and relationships in the world? How will we continue to ensure prosperity, now and in the future? It is good that the international branch of Invest-NL will take shape in the coming year. Almost 800 million is involved. I would like to stress once again that the CDA stands for free trade agreements and for Dutch exports. If you produce quality and sustainable products that everyone wants, then of course you want to be world champion export. This wage model has brought prosperity to our country for centuries. It is important for the position of a small country such as the Netherlands in the world and it offers opportunities to conduct a value agenda alongside a trade agenda. That is where the dialogue takes place where trade is conducted. And that dialogue is the place where we can share our values and standards. It's the famous merchant-and-reverend story. But now we're no more reverend than merchant, I ask the minister. It is precisely this combination that makes us interesting for the great economic powers in the world, while at the same time making us a reliable partner for emerging countries and third countries. We must therefore be more ambitious in the implementation of our trade agenda. I want the Minister to play a proactive role in this. We must remove barriers to trade, take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalisation and respond to the changing world. More ambition is the key word for me. We must then attach a great deal of passion and, of course, always a clear vision to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u113	For a while I asked the VVD, which shields towards the farmers with texts like 'own vegetables first'. Today we voted on a motion from the CDA to sell mainly Dutch products here in our own Chamber Restaurant. That's what the Party for Animals was for. Food is the most important thing to regionalize. But the question is what the CDA, with its eternal support for those free trade agreements, with Canada, with Brazil, with Thailand, then says to those farmers. These conventions allow products produced in countries where farmers are far lower than those in the Netherlands, to enter our market at lower or abolished import rates. Well, then, of course, we'll know what's going on. What is the CDA's answer to the farmers' question to stop these trade agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u114	We conclude these trade agreements because the Netherlands makes quality goods, whether in industry or in agro-food. This is precisely what we are doing for farmers, in order to bring down import tariffs for them. If you look at the 2018 CBS figures, you can see that cheese exports to Canada under the new trade agreement have increased by almost 80%. Do you know what cheese is made of, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u115	You should not ask Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u116	From milk. How much milk goes in cheese? There's all big stock there. So also the farmers here in the Netherlands, the cattle farmers, the dairy production, benefit from the CETA trade agreement. The CBS indicates 80%. So we're doing this for the farmers. Of course, there may also be concerns, or we should look critically at maintaining the level playing field. That is why I believe we also have quotas, for example for pigmeat. We are going to talk about this in detail in the CETA debate. Canada is allowed to export 80,000 tonnes of pork to Europe, which is 500 million inhabitants, 28 countries. If you split that up, there's nothing left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u117	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u118	Mr President, may I say something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u120	In recent years, our veal has gone more to Canada. So we're doing this for the farmers. The Netherlands is a small country. If the farmers in the Netherlands had to have it only from our own people, they were poor. We also want farmers to have a decent income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u121	I must first give some answers to Mr Amhaouch's questions. Do I know where milk comes from? Oh, yeah. Milk comes from cows or goats that are pregnant, that are pregnant, that have had to throw a young, that are removed from them within a day because the milk goes to the factory. There's 10 liters of milk in 1 kilo of cheese. So the CDA is actually saying here: because we can make some money from that, we trade out the interests of other farmers. That's the pig farmers' complaint. The complaint from farmers is also that poisons may be used in countries such as Canada and Brazil which are not permitted in the Netherlands. Yet the CDA says: "Come on! Bring on those products. Just put it in the Dutch supermarkets. Nice and cheap, easy." Again, the question is: why does the CDA choose not to answer the concerns of those farmers? The farmers say, "Don't do it, these trade deals."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u122	Milk is a beautiful product. I think a lot of people find millions! People in the Netherlands milk a product. Mrs Ouwehand may think otherwise. I don't know if she's drinking milk or not. Look at the whole chain. Let's start with that cow; I'm not looking at what happens in advance. We then see that the cow gives milk, that the cow has to be fed and that there is a whole battery of small and medium-sized enterprises around it. For that milk the ratio of 1 to 10, i.e. 1 kilo of cheese to 10 litres of milk indeed applies. If we see an export increase of 80,000, you are not going to tell me that the Dutch farmers will not benefit. You're not gonna tell me that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u123	Then I suggest... Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u124	I would like to ask one more question, but I only have six of them in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u125	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u126	So I have to leave it at that. I note that farmers do not receive an answer from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u127	Speaking of business... We too are very proud of Dutch business, but especially if it also contributes to a better world and if it accepts its responsibility, also abroad. We read, among other things, in the Economic and Social Committee opinion and also in the IOB report that our imvo-diplomacy, let's just call it, is still room for improvement. So if we are going to give better support to that business to actually participate in that better world, and we are going to make proposals to equip our posts better, do we think the CDA is on our side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u128	That's a good question. I myself am an ambassador to SDG 8: a sustainable economy and decent jobs. I don't think you can see this apart. We have indeed talked a great deal about imvo. We can see that great strides are being made. Mrs Diks said in the first instance that we do not make meters there at all. But look at the textile industry: we are back there guide country with what our business is doing. I wouldn't want to see that separately. I recognise the value of what Mrs van den Hul says, but I would like to say something about this, and I shall come back to that later on in the debate on economic diplomacy. As far as the trade instrument is concerned, I want us to market the good products and the sustainable products we make well in other countries. I am concerned not only with economic profits, but also with sustainability gains or imvo. I would not like two separate functions to be set up at the embassies. We must focus on economic diplomacy with regard to imvo. Everywhere we go on trade trips we see that imvo gets attention, but I can also make a clear commitment to economic diplomacy and trade. It's en-and. It doesn't have to be two separate functions for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u129	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u130	Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk to the Minister about the commitment to SMEs' export opportunities, about the progress towards the Africa Strategy and our trade strategy on China and there he is! On the economic strengthening of the postal network. SMEs are the norm, we always say as CDA. As the largest employer in the Netherlands, SMEs are the norm in regulation and implementation for the Netherlands. That is why I would like to draw attention to the position of SMEs in the region. The Dutch local economy has great potential. In addition to the Randstad, very effective regional economic hubs have been developed in recent years. The five regional development companies are now seven of them which are responsible for pursuing and developing these developments. However, it has been found that the step towards internationalisation is often too big for small SMEs. That is why I want companies to be encouraged, but above all they are supported to invest in internationalisation. These are new opportunities offered by a trade agreement such as CETA, but also by taking steps on more obvious markets such as Germany and Belgium. Large companies will find their way, but SMEs deserve support. This can be done through Invest-International, which should start in 2020. This will release 800 million to promote the export and international opportunities of Dutch industry. Does the Minister have any idea what the emphasis will be on at Invest-International? Is it in growth markets or in certain sectors? When can we expect the proposal from Invest-International in the Chamber? Invest-NL lasted two years, but fortunately came through the Upper House last week. Of course, that's always worth a party. Does the Minister have the ambition to "ambitie" again to realize Invest-International in its term? It is important for the Minister to be able to clarify this so that companies can anticipate it in good time. There is a pot of EUR 800 million available, but we do not know by whom, when and how to draw from it. That is why, together with Mr Weverling, I am now tabling an amendment calling for additional resources for regional development companies to promote internationalisation for SMEs. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore ask the Minister to indicate what has been done as a result of my motion on encouraging start-ups adopted last year. This year there must be 16 million additional investments in start-ups in developing countries. I asked for extra attention to be paid to start-ups in the agro-food sector, where there is a lot of Dutch expertise from universities and companies. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Then there's the Africa strategy. In July, just before the recess, I tabled a motion on the drafting of a Dutch Africa strategy. This motion has been adopted in plenary session. I'm afraid I haven't heard more about it. Has the task force been set up? Are there conversations taking place and what is the state of play? It would be nice if in the next budget, in this time perspective, the last of the Minister, this strategy could become part of the policy. The budget states that the Minister will develop his own China strategy. It is important that the Netherlands does not become a victim of the trade conflicts between the US and China. We need to adopt a proactive policy on this, although I fear that we are already chasing the facts. When can we expect the Dutch China trade strategy, I ask the Minister. I also advocated strengthening embassies in countries with which trade agreements have been or are being concluded during the previous budget debate. Customisation of economic diplomacy has always been our point, but I really don't see this coming back. Resources should be made available to embassies to support Dutch economic activities themselves, especially in countries where trade is shown to increase due to a trade agreement or trade missions. We must strengthen our position in the world in order to maintain our prosperity. The greatest economic growth is taking place outside Europe. Embassies know, like no other, what developments are taking place in the faraway countries. The economic strengthening of the postal network must now take place. I therefore ask the Minister to consult with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u131	I thought the speaker might say a little more about the Africa strategy, because I have the same question for you as to Mr Weverling: what opportunities do you see to use the entrepreneurs in the diaspora, who live here in the Netherlands and have a lot of contacts in Africa, as a lever to bring more Dutch trade in Africa?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u132	As regards the Africa strategy adopted by the Chamber before the summer, it has been said that it should focus mainly on trade. We also said that the task force to be set up should be business, government, knowledge institutions and NGOs, so that we can take a good look at the future. We're talking about China's strategy this year. That's actually very late. We say that we must now work on that continent of 52 countries. As for the people of the diaspora: yes, of course they must participate. Everyone's got to be in on it. Anyone who has good ideas should be in on it, because we're not gonna rule anyone out. But to make a specific policy, that's a second. So all ideas are welcome. The point is that people can set up projects or trade. So let's make use of that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u133	I guess I'm still allowed to ask questions, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u135	It started out so beautifully and at the end it went a bit wrong, because you said you were sorry to have to make specific policy on this. Don't you think it's a little more unfortunate, as far as that's a Dutch word, that you know that there are parties in the Netherlands that can help you strengthen trade in and with Africa, but that we simply refer to the Dutch Good Growth Fund or all kinds of other funds, such as RVO and you name it? I think it could be more effective if, in the run-up to this story, we were to involve the diaspora's entrepreneurs better and really pay particular attention to this. Special policy may not even be necessary, but more attention is needed. Now this disappears a little behind the horizon, while I think this is a group of people that we can use very well to achieve the goals that you too have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u136	If we can help out there, please. We should definitely do that. But I see the people in the regions, the SMEs. I may be color blind, but it doesn't matter if it's black, white or yellow. That's where we have to help. That is why our proposal is to look through the regional development companies to see which companies or which entrepreneurs see opportunities, whether or not that is a man or a woman from the diaspora, which is now going to receive a certain label. If they can help to do this in an African country or in another country, then of course we must make use of it. The point is that the Netherlands is looking forward, at how we can maintain prosperity in the future and how we can also help a continent like Africa. It's a win-win strategy. Then I'll get to the last piece. As far as CETA is concerned, I call on the Minister to ensure that the concerns of the counter-camp are met with accompanying policies. We need to figure out what the worries are. The technical briefing and the CETA round table showed that much is based on inaccuracies, including among MPs. I therefore hope that many uncertainties have now disappeared. When concerns are justified, policy needs to be taken. I would also ask the Minister to temporarily strengthen the Canadian Embassy, to make better use of the opportunities offered by CETA, but also to better monitor the concerns expressed about trade with Canada. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u137	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday, the Minister joined the Buitenhof programme to make a warm plea for free trade and for CETA, the free trade agreement with Canada. I'd like to start with that, because she sketched a doom there. She talked about "an historic error" if Parliament rejected CETA. She kept a heavily exaggerated story about how her analysis and her views would be facts. The thousands of people and organisations that oppose CETA, i.e. citizens, politicians from left to right, municipalities, provinces, farmers' organisations, environmental organisations and human rights defenders, had really not understood it, according to this minister. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, it is not all those people who have not understood, but this minister does not understand very much the concerns of ordinary Dutch people. No one is against fair trade and fair investment, but offering all kinds of privileges to multinationals is not fair. Trade is not fair if cheaper and worse products are given a competitive advantage. And investment is not fair if companies can challenge democratic decisions through international VIP courts and thereby hinder the protection of citizens. We should therefore not be surprised that, so far, globalisation led by neoliberals with their conventions such as CETA has increased inequality and uncertainty in many countries. In 2018, the combined wealth of the billionaires increased by 2.5 billion a day, or 12%. At the same time, the wealth of the poorest half of the population fell by 11%. If, in this situation in this world, this minister pleads for even more free trade and even more free trade agreements such as CETA, and thus joins in a long line of neoliberal cabinet ministers who also in the Netherlands have made the wealth inequality what it is, namely one of the largest in the developed countries, then she should not be surprised if many Dutch people turn away completely from globalisation, and therefore also from international cooperation as a whole. The minister warned herself about this in her Hannie Schaftlecture, the same day she was in Buitenhof. When I was still on the board committee in Amsterdam Nieuw-West, we named six bridges in my district after women resistance fighters, including Hannie Schaft, a socialist and a heroine as far as I am concerned. I often pass there, just like along the Henk Sneevlietweg, also near me. Henk Sneevliet, like Hannie Schaft, was a socialist and resistance hero, and, like her and many other socialists, was killed in the fight for a better and fairer world without oppression. And that's still our fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u139	Mr Alkaya started with the minister's doom scenario. I think he's setting up quite a doom scenario here, I have to be honest. He magicalizes all kinds of things out of his high hat, including, for example, VIP courts. Let me just ask you a short question. I think you know the answer to that. The Netherlands concludes many investment protection agreements. We have around 90, I believe. How often has the Netherlands been brought to justice by one of those VIP courts you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u140	That has not happened, and that shows how unnecessary these VIP courts are and why it is so bizarre that we allow that kind of antisocial international treaties to undermine our democracy and our rule of law. Because the legal system in the Netherlands is good. We have independent judges here where companies can go very well if they feel disadvantaged. The difference is that such a national court can also bring a trade union or environmental organisation to justice if it objects to the actions of these multinationals. What D66 wants and what it says in CETA is that there is also a special international court or international system that only multinationals can go to. That is nothing but a VIP court, and that is what Mr Bouali supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u141	Your last question, Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u142	I know, Madam President. You can see that Mr Alkaya is now choosing another track, a different kind of response. Indeed, there has never been a case brought in the Netherlands under one of those courts. It is not necessary, but if you have investments, it is necessary to protect them. I think that Mr Alkaya should also be aware that large investments can be protected. I do not think it is right for Mr Alkaya to frighten citizens with this kind of scaremongering. He's bringing it up. He says there are all kinds of VIP courts, they're being abused and they make big claims, but that's just not true. Just confirm that instead of going around and saying that it didn't happen and that this shows that it isn't necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u143	Mr Bouali does not make any sense. The Netherlands itself, of course, has not been charged as a country because it has a well-functioning rule of law. But through the Netherlands, of course, dozens of countries have been sued by letterbox companies. Through the Netherlands, because they have a letterbox company here, companies have sued all kinds of countries around the world for wanting greening and sustainability. That shows that those kind of VIP-tribunals are not in favour of ordinary people, but at their disadvantage, and that they are also countering greening. Therefore, too, a D66er should distance himself from it, but apparently serving multinationals for D66 is more important than greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u145	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the resistance heroes, near my neighborhood and how proud I am of my neighborhood with her Hannie Schaftbrug, Henk Sneevlietweg, Joop Woortmanplein, Leendert Valstarhof and many other places in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. Proud of your neighborhood and proud of your roots in a society in a beautiful country like the Netherlands, I would also like to grant the minister. That is why I agree with the words of the PVV, despite the selective indignation of a number of parties who just spoke when the PVV was speaking. Perhaps the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation would better understand the concerns in the Netherlands if they had spent more time here. If you're abroad almost your whole life, if you've worked at Shell in London and then for all kinds of organizations in Jerusalem, Geneva, Khartoum, Nairobi, Amman, New York and eventually in Syria, if you've spent more time in protected compounds and in an international environment than in the neighborhoods of the Netherlands, like Amsterdam Nieuw-West, then I also understand that you don't understand us. Then I understand that when she sits at Buitenhof, the Minister says she is more concerned about the geopolitical signals that the rejection of CETA would send out than about the effects here in the Netherlands. For socialists, that is exactly the other way around. Man is our starting point and our end point. People no longer tolerate multinationals being placed above citizens by their own government. That's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u146	I'm sitting all the way in the back, and it's gonna take me a while to get here. I've got a lot of laughs to do about this. It's like seeing more poverty in Old West than in many countries you're describing right now. I would like to point out that you might talk very differently about such countries if you had been there a little more. That is not my question, by the way. You were just talking about the Investment Court System. If we have a treaty between Canada and the European Union, we have a legal system that works well in all those countries, isn't the Investment Court System a marginal point? If we do not ratify CETA on that particular point, it is a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u147	A marginal point? Mr Van Haga says that our rule of law, our democracy, our independent legal process and the VIP legal obstacles for multinationals where citizens and local SMEs cannot go. Yeah, it's just what you call marginal. I must stress, however, that part of the poverty in Amsterdam Nieuw-West is also due to the high rents and the late maintenance in the homes there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u148	I'd like to take you on a trip through some random African country. Then you will see that poverty there and yet here is not at all comparable. Anyway, this Investment Court System is meant to defend you in case a government does anything weird. That is probably not necessary in Canada and in the Netherlands. That's why a case has never been brought before. My question remains whether you think it is right that we should not ratify CETA on the basis of an Investment Court System that does not really matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u149	It is clear that I do think it is important and that I think it is important enough not to support that treaty. In all other treaties, my party has done nothing else: first against the ISDS mechanism and now against ICS. We reject all such privileges for multinationals that do not have local citizens and SMEs. And that's just still in CETA. Mr Van Haga may call that marginal, but I do not think that is marginal. And comparing poverty in New West with poverty in Africa is really a pointless occupation of Mr Van Haga. It is precisely the struggle of the socialists to tackle poverty all over the world. Just that kind of relativizing behavior and saying, "You're so sorry in New West, but go check out Africa" I hate it. I'm sorry about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u151	3.2% of all exported products and services in the world came from the Netherlands last year. By comparison, if we had 3.2% of the world's population, we would have around 200 million inhabitants in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, our trade surplus has increased to the record level of 84 billion euros in 2018. This makes the Netherlands one of the top four countries in the world. A lot of people in this room are proud of that, unfortunately. In other words, our share of world trade is disproportionate. International institutions have been warning us of the negative consequences for years. For example, a too one-sided focus on as many exports as possible has led to too low wages in the Netherlands for years. We've been dealing with wage moderation for years, and we have to get rid of it. It's been since the Wassenaar Accord. Globalisation led by the world's foreign neoliberals has thus so far been particularly, unfortunately, good for multinationals, which has prevented ordinary citizens from international cooperation as a whole. There's gotta be another way. Does the Minister agree with me, and therefore with the VVD, today admit that the pursuit of as much free trade as possible and as much exports as possible has not only advantages, but also disadvantages for ordinary Dutch people? Then why does this aspect receive so little attention in its policy? Is it prepared to let go of the outdated dogmas about free trade and try to make trade really fairer and fairer for all? Mr. Chairman. If the Minister really did that and looked at CETA genuinely and unbiasedly, she would certainly understand the resistance to it. I'm really convinced of that. Is the Minister prepared to at least work to get that arbitration system, ICS, out of that treaty? Because that's what a lot of the worries are about. Is it therefore prepared to renegotiate with Canada and the EU this unfair VIP legal process for multinationals, with which they can sue the state, but where no one else but these multinationals can start a business? Or is she waiting for treatment in the Lower House, with the risk of the treaty being voted down? For the Christian Union has also spoken out against this kind of injustice before. With that, there does not seem to be a majority in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Even without treaties, many Dutch companies like to look across the border. The Netherlands is home to many multinationals. As a socialist, I will always be keen that the workers who do all the work profit from the profits made by trade. But that's not my only job. I also think it is a task of all of us in this Parliament to control these thousands of internationally operating Dutch companies in other countries. Even though the laws in many countries are not as developed and strict as they are here, we must be able to expect our companies to respect nature and human rights throughout the world. That is simply their duty. An internationally binding UN Convention would help in this. Talks about this have been going on for years. The attitude of the cabinet is becoming more and more constructive. I'm happy about that. Unfortunately, many Western countries are still not at the table, for example Canada, which we were talking about, but also the United States and Australia. What diplomatic means does the Minister intend to use next year to allow as many countries as possible to participate in the negotiations on this UN Convention? After all, it is not coherent if the Dutch government is trying to combat exploitation and climate change worldwide, while multinationals subsidised by the Netherlands are causing this. The paper Towards a sustainable Europe in 2030 states that it is important to avoid negative impacts of policies on other countries, otherwise they will have a boomerang effect on our own economy and our society, for example by exacerbating the root causes of migration. So policy on responsible entrepreneurship is essential. It's not a side issue. Unfortunately, this policy seems to be failing, but it will continue in the coming year. What was the Minister's response when she read the critical observations and the recommendations in the evaluation of the import agreements? The evaluation notes that the objectives of responsible entrepreneurship conflict with the objectives of other policies, such as trade promotion. How's the Minister gonna fix this? Take Nigeria, where Shell seems to have paid bribes to corrupt politicians. Shell seems to have helped them, while at the same time causing 175 leakages per year and leaking a total of 1.5 million tonnes of oil into nature, in the Niger delta. That's the same Nigeria where Heineken has exploited women to promote his beer for years. A country such as Nigeria would be much more useful if our multinationals were to behave properly and responsibly. This is more useful than development aid. Mr. Chairman. However, this does not alter the fact that help from the Netherlands is still needed in the world. The SP finds it worrying that the budget for this has been declining for years and is not rising as the economy is growing again. How will the Minister ensure that the Netherlands again complies with the international standard of 0.7%? Because there are still plenty of people in the world who could use our help. Poverty, exploitation and violence are unfortunately not yet out of the world. The first thing people need is a roof over their head and eating a plate. The commitment to education, mental health and psychological aid is often threatened with death.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u152	Have I heard Mr Alkaya correctly say that the budget for development cooperation has fallen in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u153	Yes, since the arrival of Rutte I, since 2010. That's what I'm talking about. That has just come back to us in the inter-rupt debates. At first, it was 0.8% of gross national product. It's now 0.53%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u154	But Mr Alkaya said that the budget, the funds released for development cooperation, has been reduced in recent years. I thought he meant the last few years. That's what I was working on. But he means: in the time of Rutte I and Rutte II. That's how I understand it now. Because he recognizes with me that over the last few years, 400 million, 500 million, have been added.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u155	That's because the economy is growing. I was right to say afterwards that the development cooperation budget has declined in recent years. Now that the economy is growing again, it's not going to go up. If that did not work out well, I will explain it here. Since the arrival of Rutte I, the percentage of our gross national product, of our economy, going to development cooperation, has fallen. Now that the economy is growing again, that percentage is not rising. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u156	Yeah, I wish. We saw a cashier at Rutte II. The Minister for Development Co-operation, the predecessor of this minister, has raised the funds of the BNP increase until 2020 for the first-year reception of asylum seekers. The increase you are talking about does not come from the increase in GNP, but from the fact that this coalition has allocated extra money to reverse the cuts that have been made to this end and to increase the budget. I hope that Mr Alkaya is very keen on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u157	At the same time, I note that these intensifications are not enough to allow it to rise enough as a percentage of our economy. It's still 0.53%. So I guess we're just saying the same thing. We shouldn't go looking for it in the rhetoric. It is currently too low a percentage of our economy. It's been for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u158	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u159	Mr. Chairman. Is the Cabinet prepared to make more money available for development cooperation and to cover this from trade promotion? Is the government prepared to accept this in such a way that more money goes to education and psychological aid, for example for abused children in areas where they are likely to be forgotten soon? Mr President, concluding. This minister seems to have a lot of empathy and attention for people in trouble worldwide. That's good. She has a lot of experience with that too. But also in the Netherlands many people do not have it easy. They have seen that globalisation and internationalisation have brought them nothing but uncertainty. The Minister is less aware of this, but that part of her portfolio is also her responsibility. I call on her to look at the Netherlands with at least as much passion and dedication as she looks at the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u160	Thank you. Mr Amhaouch has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u161	I thought: I will wait until the last second, because perhaps a positive note from Mr Alkaya will come forward. I'm afraid I haven't noticed. I know that Mr Alkaya is always in favour of jobs, jobs for ordinary people, SMEs in the white van or the man at Tata Steel. Now I read that on 10 December, the FNV is organising a major meeting at Tata Steel, where perhaps 1,650 people leave. What's your story? What can you tell the people who meet there? Can you say that I have been working in the Chamber for a particular trade policy in which companies are given opportunities to trade and enter into business? Tata Steel exports steel worldwide. Can you say, "I've been committed to that, and that's why I'm trying to guarantee your jobs instead of cutting everything off?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u162	The people of Tata Steel have already expressed my positive opinion on this matter on several occasions, and there is no need for them to compete unfairly because their steel would be cheaper by, for example, free trade agreements with countries where the minimum wage is much lower. They compete on quality. I'm totally okay with trading in a fair manner. I have no objection to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u163	That wasn't my question. My question was: what is Mr Alkaya going to say about his commitment? You cannot just keep jobs here in the Netherlands by saying that nothing is good, that a trade treaty is not good and that multinationals are the biggest crooks in the world. Tens of thousands of people work there, almost a million combined. So you have an unbelievable story. Soon you'll be late, when 1,650 people stand at the gate and stand in between with a red hoist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u164	This has been searched again in rhetoric. I do not feel that Mr Amhaouch is trying to understand what I am talking about. For example, Tata Steel exports a lot to the United States. We do not have a trade agreement with that at all. But after President Trump introduced tariffs specifically on steel products, we here, together with the VVD, with Mr Weverling's predecessor, ensured that Dutch companies continued to have access to exceptions, as long as they can show that they are not competing on terms of employment or something like that, but they supply products that are so good quality that the United States cannot produce them themselves. As long as the Netherlands produces good quality products, I am not at all afraid or reluctant to support it. It just doesn't have to go unfairly. We're in favour of fair trade, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u165	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I'd like to make the proposal to suspend now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u166	We will continue with the budget for external trade and development cooperation. I give the floor to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to tell you about two young Dutch entrepreneurs, who import coffee from Rwanda and who sell it here at a very fair price. In doing so, they provide micro-credits to farmers in Africa. Why? "To support good entrepreneurs in Africa and eliminate financial inequality," they argue. With the support of the Dutch government, they were able to obtain funding to import a container of coffee. Meanwhile, these young entrepreneurs in Rwanda have opened a coffee bar and a guest house. This is the reason for public aid to SMEs, in which entrepreneurial drive, humanity and ambition come together. With their company, these guys contribute to economic development in Africa and to the sustainability of trade chains. At the same time they provide us with a delicious cup of coffee at a very fair price. The Dutch entrepreneurs are not the only ones who feel responsible for contributing to the fight against poverty and inequality. 92% of all Dutch people believe that helping people in developing countries is important, not only in our own country but also in the belief that this is how we contribute to a peaceful and just world, precisely that whatever drives those two young coffee entrepreneurs. The Dutchman also has a good deal of money for that. 83% of the Dutch want to spend more on development cooperation or at least keep this expenditure equal. Research by ING Bank shows that the Dutch want to spend €4 out of every €100 on OS. 4%, that's quite a percentage! It is figures that show that the Dutch are world citizens who care about the fate of their fellow human beings and want to work for them. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is spending a lot more money on OS. After the balding of the Labour Party and the VVD under Rutte I and II, an additional EUR 1.8 billion is now being invested. That's an extra half a billion euros a year. The 0.7% standard is the goal again. As far as I'm concerned, that's fantastic, too. But my group also notes that the figures for 2020 are slightly less rosy. I would therefore also like to hear from this Minister what her timetable is to get the ODA budget back towards that 0.7%. Of course I know that Minister Kaag is not alone in deciding this. Would it not therefore be appropriate to take her colleague, the Minister for Finance, on a working visit to a developing country, just as he went with the Minister of Defence earlier this year to visit a NATO mission on the European eastern border, to see for himself what results we have with Dutch money to contribute to prosperity and economic development in those countries? Is the Minister prepared to invite her colleague from the Treasury to this? And can I ask the Minister of Finance to go along this path? He must have heard the recent call from his CDA congress to return to 0.7%. I was talking about that with my colleague from the CDA, Anne Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u168	It is good that Mr Bouali re-appointed the 0.7%. That's what my question is about. Mr Bouali asks the Minister what kind of timetable she sees for this 0.7%, but I am actually very curious when Mr Bouali wants to achieve 0.7%. Because in 2020, we're not gonna make it, but are we gonna make it through this cabinet period? Or is it a vision for much later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u169	Well, as far as I'm concerned, it's not a view. You just heard the CDA's colleague, too. She is also willing to cooperate with us at least to go to that 0.7%. So I think we should all make it in the Chamber, with all these powers, to get that 0.7%. As far as I am concerned, this can also be done in the short term. But of course, as I said earlier, we also have a coalition agreement. In any case, we have earmarked extra money for development cooperation, so that at least we do not make that free fall anymore. I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u170	This sounds nice. Mr. Bouali says we're in favour. The CDA is for it. I can't imagine the Christian Union looking at that differently. You can see it: they keep laughing. In my view, there is a majority in the coalition, so I assume that you will simply realize it in the next budget. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u171	I am not going to anticipate another budget. You'll understand, Mr. Stoffer. But I would certainly like to see if we can achieve that majority with colleagues in the Chamber, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u172	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u173	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Union. The European Union is also an important player on OS; rightly so, as far as D66 is concerned. The European Union is the largest donor worldwide. This also makes the EU an important soft power, for example when it comes to diplomacy or political statements. As far as D66 is concerned, we also retain this financial leverage in the new MFF. Can the Minister indicate whether this is the Dutch commitment to the negotiations in Brussels? I think it is important that the Dutch and European programmes are in line with each other. Can the Minister therefore indicate how EU programmes complement Member States' programmes and vice versa? How does policy coordination take place? Finally, on the European Union. The European Union has succeeded in concluding the Environmental Goods Agreement with more and more countries. I've drawn attention to this before. As far as D66 is concerned, this group of countries is only growing. How does the Minister see this? Does she agree with me that the European Union should take the lead in concluding this agreement with as many countries as possible? Does it also see a possible link to ongoing negotiations on trade agreements? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a subject that I am personally concerned about, which I have often drawn attention to and which is at the heart of D66's policy in this cabinet: combating climate change, the challenge of this century. Last summer, the horrible images of a burning Amazon went all over the world. This disaster may have lost its focus by now, but it is certainly not a matter of urgency. Not only the Amazon, but also the Congo Basin in Africa and the rainforest in Indonesia face massive deforestation every year, while deforestation is one of the main causes of climate change and therefore combating it is an important part of the Paris Climate Agreement. As far as D66 is concerned, we do not wait until the next hot summer, until the world has to jump again in front of the rainforest. D66 wants to take action, right away. That is why I am tabling an amendment today, on item No. 16, with which D66 wants to explicitly use 5 million euros of development money for climate, against deforestation, to make local agriculture in the rainforest area more sustainable. Because where some parties argue for import bans and other protectionist measures and simply close the door, we as D66 take responsibility and help local farmers to improve their production in order to fight climate change together, in line with the Paris Agreement. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this amendment. Can it indicate if this amount can be used in a structural manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u174	Of course, submitting a plan for more forests is fun, but the most important thing is that D66 and this cabinet make the choice not to contribute any more to combating deforestation. Over the past year, we have been begged by US human rights organisations to stop subsidies on biomass plants. That's where 11 billion goes. They say, "Our forests will disappear from it." And now D66 comes up with a little plan to throw a few million at it to wipe that effect out a little bit. D66 will really have to answer the many, many questions about it. Mr Bouali has just put it away as protectionist, but if you have been trying for 15 years, with round tables, to stop deforestation in Indonesia for example for palm oil and it doesn't work, then after 15 years you have to conclude that you have to do something else, such as reducing the import of palm oil and not offering a marketing market to Bolsonaro and its products from deforested areas. I expect those choices from D66 now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u175	I always like to see my colleague from the Party for Animals on the microphone. We have said it before: I think we both want the same thing for this earth, namely sustainability and combating climate change. Only I really choose a different path, a more realistic one as far as I am concerned. Mrs. Ouwehand always uses small words, such as "plan." I think there's a difference in that, too. You might want to go all the way to 100%. I look around in this Chamber and when I see that some people may not want to do anything at all, I say: if we can get 60%, I am already very happy; at least I am committed to that 60%. I hope that you will then be on my side to achieve at least that 60%. I do not think it is entirely right to dismiss everything we propose as 'plans'. I would like you, Mrs Ouwehand, to support this amendment and say: at least this is a good step; let us protect the Amazon, let us combat deforestation and make agriculture more sustainable; that is a good step. I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u176	Of course, I would be interested if Mr D66 tabled an amendment on deforestation. I have tabled an amendment myself. He limits it, if I may say so, to the Amazon. Together with my colleague Van Ojik I have written a note on deforestation. As far as we are concerned, we are talking about deforestation worldwide, including the Congo basin, also about Siberia, including Indonesia, and not just about the Amazon. Of course, we see all kinds of beautiful projects, such as the green wall in Africa, where a number of countries try to plant millions of trees a day. In my amendment, I very strongly ask that the Netherlands, with all the knowledge we have about tropical forestry, should support the governments in those countries, in order to provide much better support for the institutions, such as State forest management in Africa. Because of course there's no point in planting a lot of trees when they're all dead a year later. It is also really about strengthening institutions. How do you feel about that, Mr. Bouali?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u177	I don't think you heard me correctly, so let me repeat it again. I have indicated that the challenges of combating deforestation are global. I mentioned the example of the Congo basin in Africa and the rainforest in Indonesia. Perhaps you have not heard this, and I repeat it again. As far as I'm concerned, it's a global problem. That's one. Two. If I have read your amendment correctly, Mrs Diks, then you want to take money somewhere else and deduct it from the peace and security game, if I see it correctly. I'm not. I have already made an appeal to you once before: help you to make sure that we at least have a budget so that the Minister can do more for climate. In any case, I have pointed out that it comes from the free resources that are in the climate pool. It's especially for deforestation. That's a global approach, but I'm not getting it from anywhere else. I am not going to risk international peace and security by taking it away from there and moving it somewhere else. I think there's the difference between your approach and mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u178	Exactly, because there is more in the game of peace and security: peace and security and sustainable development. From that point of view, I think it is very important to combat deforestation and to stimulate replanting and reforestation. I think that as a factor is very good. At a time when we are able to stop or at least greatly reduce desertification, this can help enormously, for example, to stimulate much more the economy in the countries where we both would like it. I think it is a little faint that you say now that I want to get it out of peace and security, because I really mean it from sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u179	I don't blame you, but you've made a choice. So I didn't make it; I made another choice. As far as I am concerned, this is such an urgent problem, and I think we both agree that action should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u181	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u182	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u183	I tabled a motion on this matter last year. Mrs. Diks knows that too, because I've been worried about that Amazon for a long time. I think we should look together at how to address this. Now I can continue, Madam President, thank you very much. Then SRGR, a topic you will always hear D66 about: sexual and reproductive health and rights. It is almost impossible to imagine in 2019, but global issues such as the right to abortion and access to contraception seem to be deteriorating rather than moving forward. Minister Kaag is right to fight against these conservative forces, as recently at the United Nations in New York, when Twitter President Trump campaigned for a direct attack against women's rights. Within 48 hours, Minister Kaag had a counter-campaign and her statement on sexual rights and health care was supported by 60 countries. Can the Minister indicate what other ways the Netherlands can and will use to reverse this conservative trend in the coming year? As far as SRGR is concerned, D66 also hears concerns from many organisations that the total budget seems to go down. Can the Minister remove these concerns and, apart from the accounting statement, can she guarantee that we will continue to use them in accordance with the government agreement? Let's get to the next topic. It has often been said from this place: the multilateral world order is under pressure. This also applies to the United Nations, since 1945 an institution that seems so self-evident and indispensable to our peace, security and stability worldwide. Not only for a small country such as the Netherlands, which is so benefiting from a stable world order, but also in very difficult areas, the UN is indispensable because of the important work they are doing, for example in the Middle East Peace Process, where the UN, through UNWRA for example, is committed to education and care for Palestinian refugees; indispensable things to achieve the so hoped two-state solution. As far as D66 is concerned, the UN continues to carry out this important task. I would also like to call on our Minister to continue to do so. I would also like to stress the work of the UN in the refugee crisis. 80 million people are on the run today, some of which are almost impossible to comprehend. I am therefore very positive about this Minister's commitment to the education of refugee children, for example through generous support for UNICEF. But I also mention the millions that this minister has released for the Global Partnership for Education, an important organisation that is committed to education and also to children. As far as D66 is concerned, we are doing everything we can to prevent a lost generation. Finally, on OS, something that is very important to me: civil society. We talked about this in the Chamber last week. These are incredibly important organisations, which offer participation and contradiction in sometimes very difficult circumstances, where many world improvers are committed to strengthening a democratic and open society. I was pleased to hear in the previous debate with the Minister on the civil society policy framework that, in addition to the additional investment, it remains possible for organisations to focus on the issues, and that projects remain possible outside the focus regions. Also, my concern about Ihbti has been removed as a theme now that this has been explicitly included in the policy. D66 will always be committed to this group, which is still struggling to be itself worldwide. Now that I've had the OS part, I'm going to another equally important theme: trade. Here again I take a look at the figures. It seems that some parties, including in this Chamber, have been missed more and more often: 30% of the gross national product we, the Dutch, deserve with international trade. We have the sixth largest trade surplus in the world and it brings a huge number of jobs in this country. Trade not only brings us economic prosperity, but also supports peaceful relations between countries. This is also a subject that I think is very important and that we should not lose sight of. Unfortunately, these peaceful relations are increasingly under pressure, even when it comes to international trade. Trade wars are becoming more and more frequent and now the referee in these conflicts may soon be silenced on the world stage. I am talking about the World Trade Organisation. We have already debated this extensively over the past week, so I will not repeat myself. Here too, I would like to mention the silent disaster that is taking place when the United States' frustrating attitude on 11 December paralyses the system. Once again, I call on the European Commission to show leadership here. I am pleased that the Minister has a critical and active attitude towards the Commission on this dossier, because that is very much needed. I would like to hear how the discussions on this matter have taken place in the past IAB/Trade. Have any results been achieved and a plan B has already been formulated? My final point concerns the sustainability of the trade chain and goes back a bit to the beginning of my speech. The debate on this often raises the question of whether or not to legislate on imvo? But as far as D66's concerned, it's not that black and white. As with combating climate change, we need to work together in line with the OECD directives, which lay down environmental and labour rights, in order to achieve a fair and sustainable trade chain, i.e. public authorities, businesses and consumers together. Consumers often lack awareness, for example about sustainable products. A fair trade label doesn't always tell the whole story. Can the Minister indicate how the cabinet is working to raise consumer awareness, not just for food production, but also for clothing, for example? As regards this awareness, the Chamber previously adopted a D66 motion to organise a European high-level meeting on corporate social responsibility. In Brussels this led to a nice event, but I am particularly concerned here with creating a level playing field at EU level for Dutch business. That is why I would like to call on the Minister to raise the issue and organise a European summit in the Netherlands in order to continue working on European awareness about imvo. Is she willing to do this? I'm gonna finish up. In this context, I look forward to the evaluation of the IVO agreements, which will help us on the next step. 'Cause is it perfect yet? Far from it. Should we get better? Absolutely? There's still a lot of work to be done. I'll end with a positive note, as you're used to me. Even though I hear a lot of colleagues say that things have to be different and that it has to be better, I note that in the Netherlands it is precisely because the government, the private sector, research and civil society are working together, such as those two young coffee entrepreneurs I started my speech with, who are financially supported by the Dutch government in their wonderful mission to help good entrepreneurs in Africa and help out financial inequality. As far as D66 is concerned, the Netherlands really is an example and we should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u184	I know D66 and Mr Bouali in particular as warm supporters of the SDG agenda, and we share that. I also think that we are both very pleased that this minister is coordinating director of the SDG agenda, but we also see that this SDG agenda is also an agenda that deals with policy coherence and what other departments are doing in that area. My question to Mr Bouali is whether he is convinced that this SDG agenda is just as high on the list of priorities in other ministries. I have a concrete suggestion for that right away. The ESC has recently presented a very interesting opinion on the relationship between SDGs, imvo and diplomacy, among others. At that time, the ESC itself set an example by saying "this is about SDG 5" or "this is about SDG 6" in everything it publishes. Would Mr Bouali be open to seeing if the Dutch government could do the same, for example in the case of cabinet responses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u185	I must tell you quite frankly that I find this a difficult question. I think it is quite right. I think we are both SDG 5 ambassadors and we have always worked in the Chamber to promote women's rights and girls' rights. We have often tabled motions on this subject together. This Minister even has this issue as a whole in her policy statement. You are now asking me about other ministers and other ministries. I find that difficult. As far as I am concerned, if I may give you an honest answer, but I am not really about that either, I have to be honest with you. Let me say that next time I will take it with me in my group, when we are there. Then I shall say that my colleague from the Labour Party has made a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u186	I see a nice collaboration flourishing there. I also heard Mr Bouali say something about the import agreements, about the fact that there is often tension with regard to legislation and the minimum lower limit. We have just had an IOB evaluation on imvo policy. It makes suggestions not to see it as a contradiction, but to see if you could make it complementary to each other. How does Mr Bouali see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u187	I didn't think it was so much a contradiction. We have often had this debate with each other, and we have often discussed how we can get there. Now we're going to evaluate that imvo policy. Let's see what comes out of it first. By definition, I am not in favour or opposed to any particular instrument, legislation or legislation. I am ultimately concerned with what we achieve, for example when we talk about child labour, what you care about. How are we gonna fight that? How do we ensure that child labour is eliminated? I think that is much more important than the question of whether we do this through legislation or not through legislation. If there is another instrument that has a better effect, for example, to combat child labour, you will at least find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bouali. I notice that a lot of abbreviations are used in this budget, but also a lot of English words. But you guys get each other. That's important. Mrs van den Hul has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The world is on fire, and the Amazon is literally on fire. Mr Bouali has just mentioned it. There have never been so many people on the run, even over 70 million, for the first time in our history. Since the Turkish invasion of Syria, another 200,000 people have joined. In Syria, 16 million people urgently need help. In southern Africa, 11 million people are threatened with drought and hunger. Main cause: the effects of climate change, which is caused not there, but especially here, in richer, industrialised countries. The inequality in the world is almost impossible to comprehend. The 26 richest people own as much as the poorest half of the world. Over the last few years, this gap has increased further. As long as that inequality grows, we won't make any progress. But the good news is there's another way. That's a matter of making other choices. As far as we are concerned, the Netherlands should set an example. How does this minister view the reduction in the top rate in this light? Why has the Netherlands made agreements on tax avoidance with so few countries? Do countries with which the Netherlands negotiates such agreements, sometimes refer to the Netherlands as a tax haven? This too is an important step in achieving these sustainable development goals, the SDGs. We cannot ask others for SDG deployment if we fail to do so ourselves. Mr. Chairman. It is high time to recognise that the earning capacity of the "e.g. the Netherlands" is still too often at the expense of the environment and human rights elsewhere. Women, migrants and minorities often suffer extra. I welcome how this Minister gives hands and feet to the SDG test and how she puts an important theme such as women's and girls' rights at the centre. Well, the rest of the cabinet. How does this cabinet, also with regard to Beijing+25, work towards a genuinely coherent gender policy? When are we going to see effects on the SDGs in others, preferably in all policy interventions? Because these SDGs sometimes seem more like a earning model than an agenda for radical change. In the meantime, the trade agenda of this cabinet focuses mainly on the positive impact of business. The AIV also states that the Minister does not make sufficiently clear to what extent the objective of strengthening the international earning capacity is being assessed against SDG and human rights criteria. "Better than nothing," said a Dutch flower grower in Africa who admitted not to pay his employees a living wage. "Better than nothing." It sums up the pessimistic world view, which today often has to go on for realism, painfully. Here, too, it can and must be changed. We are therefore pleased that the Child Labour Care Duty Act has been adopted and the Cabinet is now working to make the OECD guidelines measurable and checkable. What the PvdA is doing not only to combat child labour but also to combat other excesses, such as environmental pollution, human rights violations and restrictions on trade unions, of course preferably at European or even world level, such as in that binding Treaty on Business and Human Rights. Mr Alkaya has already mentioned it. But let the Netherlands set a good example. This is not only good for people and the environment, but also essential for a level playing field for those companies that are looking for the longer term, the companies of the future. We therefore again advocate, supported by, among others, the IOB and the Economic and Social Council, for a firmer commitment to imvo and SDG diplomacy by embassies to help companies take responsibility and contribute to the SDGs. I have also tabled an amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. Equality begins by defending your rights, towards repressive regimes, of which we unfortunately have a lot today, but also towards companies that are not so close to environmental standards or human rights. The freedom and security of trade union leaders, women's organisations, human rights activists and environmentalists is still under considerable pressure. See the shameful expulsion yesterday of Human Rights Watch Director Omar Shakir, by Israel. We therefore want a much stronger role of embassies in protecting human rights and civil society rather than a unilateral focus on trade promotion. The EU must also have a better understanding of where the scope for civil society is restricted by companies and public authorities, so that we can act together to prevent this. We call on the Minister to work hard on this with united EU countries. Mr. Chairman. In this budget, too, the government invests heavily in combating migration and receiving in the region: as much as 22% of the ODA budget. OS sometimes looks more like flat self-interest: not investing in development but mainly in stopping refugees. This cabinet says it wants to tackle the root causes of migration. But where are they actually, in regions with shelter camps or in regions affected by drought, hunger, poverty and war where these people really come from? To tackle the real root causes of inequality, but also to achieve decent care with perspective, much more money is needed. The PvdA also wants to return to that 0.7% as soon as possible. This can be changed here too, starting with the EUR 10 million deducted from the humanitarian aid budget. There are more people displaced than ever. There are major deficits in international aid organisations and at the same time there is a billion surplus in the budget. Then why didn't we manage to get our hands together to invest more in international solidarity? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is Europe's best economy, and yet our spending on OS has never been so low since 1969. If we really want a world where everyone is sure of a fair chance of a good life, where it doesn't matter who you are or where you were born, where we treat vulnerable people humanely, where girls can go to school and not be married out or genitally mutilated, then we will first have to fight global inequality. That is also possible; it is a matter of choice. Finally, a short question. Can the Minister indicate when civil society can register for the Power of Voices programme? The policy framework has still not been published and this leads, understandably, to a great deal of uncertainty among the organisations in the field. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u190	Mr. Bouali, you've run out of questions. Yeah, 'cause they're sitting next to me keeping track of everything. But you may ask one more question, otherwise it is indeed a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u191	I think that is very kind of you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u192	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u193	I have listened to it from my colleague in the Labour Party, and I have asked a number of other parties about it. I must say that it makes me a little worse, because Mrs van den Hul knows that the Labour Party has helped to cut back 1.4 billion on the development cooperation portfolio. So that's really hard to cut. As far as I am concerned, therefore, you may be a little bit more positive, because at least some money will be added. Can you also show that positive approach, because your party has been cut hard in that OS budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u194	Mr. Bouali would like to look back, and that's what he does with a you-bowl. He's free to do that. Tough choices have indeed been made in the previous period. That was a time when unlike today, no billions were in the cabinet's bank. That was a time of economic crisis. Despite the economic weather and despite cuts in almost every department, the ODA rate has never fallen below 0.6% in the previous cabinet. That, unlike today, is 0.53%. I told you, it's never been this low since 1967.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u195	Mr. Weverling, you must not give your interruptions to Mr. Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u196	Does Mrs Van den Hul realise that we are talking here about the Ministry of Aid and Trade, and the budgetary treatment of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and not just about Development Cooperation? We must also earn the money before we spend it and talk here about trade agreements, open borders and doing business over and over again. Is she aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u197	I'm sure I'm aware of that. That is why I have also made a warm plea for fair entrepreneurship, fair investment, fair trade worldwide, so that that trade is indeed going to bet the race to the top and not a race to the bottom, as we unfortunately see too often now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u198	Finally, Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u199	Finally. All I can see is that nothing has really changed about a trade agreement that has been negotiated, so you can simply agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u200	I see a rather cryptic reference to a debate that I think we are going to have. However, when Mr Weverling refers to CETA, our position on this is very clear and unchanged, namely that the rights of workers, trade unions and environmental organisations must be guaranteed at least as well as business investment. That is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u201	No, Mr. Weverling, you also got an extra question. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u202	Mrs van den Hul mentioned the root causes of migration and that you should also look at the countries where people leave and where there is no perspective. I hear Mrs van den Hul say: you must invest in the countries where they come from. However, I do not hear you say that you are interested in receiving care in the region. But they are people who also need education, who also need perspective. You don't want that to be a lost generation, do you? So does Mrs Van den Hul agree with me that that investment is also needed to provide people with perspective there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u203	Sure. That's what I said. I'm gonna talk fast. I saw my clock count back. So I'm gonna repeat it. I have indeed said that we need more money not only to tackle the root causes, but also to achieve decent care. In fact, I have even tabled an amendment to increase the budget available for reception in the region, so that humane care is actually guaranteed. So I'll tell you all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u204	We were looking back with Mr Bouali. I'm always sorry it's gonna be a you-bowl. They're just asking to reflect. Mrs van den Hul said that the percentage was higher then, but she also saw that we would have come below 0.5% if the cut in Rutte II had gone through. So can Mrs van den Hul just be happy that more money has been added and that this cut has turned into an investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u205	I believe that in my speech I thanked this cabinet and this minister in particular on a number of points for the commitment. As I said, I am very pleased with the commitment to the SDG test and the commitment to gender and girls. But if Mr Voordewind asks me if that's enough, I say no. Is it possible to sell that the percentage for ODA is falling at a time when there is a billion surplus? No. Is it then possible to sell that the top rate will be reduced? Is it then possible to sell a reduction in the tax on profits? That's a matter of choice. Those are choices, and of some of them I suspect the Christian Union would have preferred to see them differently. I say you can make those choices now, and we want to make them now. That's my plea today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u206	I think I asked a very simple question. I had asked whether Mrs van den Hul was happy that 500 million ECU per year would be added to the total of 1.8 billion ECU in order to achieve the objectives she has just outlined. Can she just say that at least that's a plus? Her group chairman, Mr Samsom, said: I am going to cut a billion dollars and I have had two emails on this from the grassroots, so it is not a problem at all. That's not how Mrs. Van den Hul is in it. I know. I am sure she will now say that more money has been added. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u207	With all the money that goes to international solidarity, we are naturally pleased. Is that enough? No. Hence my fervent plea to invest now that we can. It's a matter of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to take stock after two years of Rutte III. Also with this minister, because this minister, together with the coalition parties and the Chamber, has, of course, had some challenges and also set some priorities when it comes to tackling the root causes of migration. This Minister, with the support of the coalition, has freed up a great many millions more. The Minister also pays a great deal of attention to fair trade. Admittedly, the policy has been pursued by the previous Minister for Development Cooperation with her covenant policy, but this Minister has done it well. Progress has been made on the issue of these covenants. The third point that this Minister is paying attention to is to stand up for girls and women. I can only summarize it; she can, of course, put it much better herself. Mr. Chairman. Those three spearheads have always embraced my party. It's not for nothing that they also come from the coalition agreement. I will therefore focus on these three points. I shall begin by saying that development cooperation with trade has perhaps never been so important. We are dealing with the gap between rich and poor, as Mrs Van den Hul pointed out. We're dealing with connections between continents. People no longer needlessly wait for what their future looks like, but take steps to see if they can work on a better future, triggering migration. All this shows the need to better support people in the region themselves and to work fully on the trade agenda. Mr. Chairman. The policy paper is also called Investing in Perspectives for a reason. It is therefore also good to look not only at how we can control migration to Europe, but also at how we can offer people prospects, especially the prospect of a decent life. That is why we need that help and that trade. That is why I will support what my colleagues Kuik and Bouali have said. In addition to the trade agenda, we must also be able to invest in development cooperation, especially at this time. The 0.7 remains the ambition of the Christian Union, and I understand that of the CDA and D66. A resolution on this was adopted at the CDA Congress. We're gonna keep pushing that 0.7 hard. But I also ask the Minister what she could do to take an extra step, for example in the spring note, to make an extra investment for those who need it so badly, as her colleague in the defence sector. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are not here with this help, because it must also be accompanied by the commitment of our Dutch industry, the business community there. We set up the DGGF a few years ago to see if we could stimulate our business, the business community there. Four years ago, we set up projects for the Addressing Root Causes in the migration countries, the so-called ARC programme. I have a question about that right away. The ARC programme will expire in 2021. What are the Minister's plans after 2021? Is ARC coming back in another form, or are we actually getting the challenge fund for that? I am talking about a challenge fund that also seeks the combination of both business and NGOs and science. This is about how we can tackle the causes of migration in the countries of migration. It is also about how to give young people, in particular, perspective and job opportunities. The CDA and the Christian Union have tabled a motion on how we could possibly give that challenge fund direction. I have the following questions about that. To what extent is this fund really going to reach those migrantable young people? How can we give them perspective and job opportunities, for example through market-relevant training, entrepreneurship training and micro-business? I'd like a response. How attractive will it be for companies to step in, given the obligation to put their own resources in for two thirds? This applies to business and, I believe, to NGOs as well. Isn't that bar a little too high? Of course we are looking for the combination between audience and private, but this seems to me to be a big threshold. When will the Minister provide the first concrete results from the challenge fund in Uganda? It has yet to start, but I am very curious to see what these first developments are like. Then with regard to imvo. We have just discussed it with our colleagues. The IOB recommends that we be informed about the legislative initiatives in other countries in Europe and that we see whether there are legislative pathways too. France is at the forefront of this and in England they are also at the forefront of what we could take on elements of. The aim should not be to undo agreements with industry, but to see if we can come to legislation on soil in relation to business, a kind of level playing field. How does the Minister see this IOB advice when it comes to making legislation complementary to the covenants for corporate social responsibility? I'd like to hear her response on that point. Mr. Chairman. I come to the most vulnerable. I shall be the first to mention the refugees. The flow of refugees and the number of refugees over 70 million people have never been so high. It hurts me that we have EUR 70 million, and I believe that Mrs Van den Hul has already mentioned this, going to EUR 60 million for the Dutch Relief Alliance, the collaboration of Dutch organisations working for emergency aid and for refugees. Does the Minister see any chance of adding to that amount of 70 million, which was already exhausted three weeks ago? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to child prostitution, my heart breaks. I think sexual abuse is the worst thing that can happen to a child. When it comes to how and in what form I am not going to mention the examples of this, these defenseless children are the victims of sometimes even their own father and mother, who sell them to brothels and bets for webcam sex, they can't get worse. 3 million children suffer from this every year. I would urge the Minister to press ahead with the most successful programme to date, Down to Zero, which was launched four years ago, so as not to undermine the results that have now been achieved in these vulnerable children and to ensure that they are followed up. I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. Then when it comes to the most vulnerable: the refugees. I already mentioned them. I'm thinking about Lesbos again. We have once again seen the images of the appalling situation there and we have seen how new plans are on the way to transform the shelter camps into closed camps. What influence will that have on people's living conditions? Winter's coming. We have previously adopted a motion, namely the Groothuizen/Voordewind motion, to see what we can do. I know the standard answers that Brussels has already given enough money and that it is mainly stuck in Athens, but what can this Minister do to carry out that motion and to do something for the winter programme for these people? Mr. Chairman. Then there are two or three small elements, because I see that my time is fast. The terrorist bonus. I am pleased that the Minister is carrying out the motion tabled last year by Mr Van Haga and myself. However, I would ask her to press on with other European countries if they would take the same step as the Netherlands to ensure that there really is a push from Europe towards the Palestinian Authority to stop doing so. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the reconciliation projects. Is the Minister prepared to continue to develop the peace of the bottom up of these successful reconciliation projects? The coalition agreement also points to this. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u210	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u211	This Minister is also responsible for the free trade agreements. She was at Buitenhof on Sunday about CETA. There she told us what she said earlier that week in a general consultation, where the Christian Union as a small group, I understand that, unfortunately, it could not be with us. In fact, this minister said that anyone who objects simply did not understand it correctly and was not properly informed. I was wondering if the Christian Union was impressed by that. After all, the Christian Union is also providing a minister in this cabinet to ensure that circular agriculture comes off the ground and that farmers have a perspective. So what is the Christian Union's position on CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u212	Those are arguments that also apply to us. I also said in the hearing that we are very concerned about, for example, the ambition to get circular agriculture off the ground. This calls for family businesses, family farms, to be able to develop, but also to develop products in the region, to combat GMO products and to combat hormone meat. So we have a lot of questions about that. Some of them have been answered in the hearing. For another part, we are still considering ourselves as a group. I myself hope that the Chamber will give us some room to lift the debate over Christmas so that we can present a well-balanced opinion here in the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u213	If it's all right, there's going to be a separate debate on CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u214	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u215	Yes, Mr President, there will indeed be another debate, but we are faced with farm protests every day. The Minister for Agriculture also spends a lot of time talking to farmers. So I can imagine that it would be nice if we could be clear about that. I understand that the Christian Union still wants to make its decision, but I actually hear for the first time that the Christian Union says: will we then talk about CETA after the celebrations? How much longer is it gonna take? Because I think the farmers deserve the clarity they are asking for. So can the Christian Union give us some kind of deadline when we're really going to cut the knot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u216	I will, of course, formally make that request, but I would like to announce this, because this is a very serious treaty. It is also a treaty that should become a model for future trade agreements on legal protection and mediation. I hope that the Chamber will support this proposal and I hope that we will then be able to deal with it in plenary after the Christmas celebrations. I would point out, however, that the CETA Convention entered into force two years ago, of course, and that only 13 other countries have ratified it. I understand the impatience and I understand the need for clarity, but I hope that we can have a debate on this after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u217	I'll see you back at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u219	On this subject, it is important to know exactly what the Christian Union is like. Mr Voordewind is now running around the investment agenda and the investment protection clauses, and the cabinet is in favour of them. The election programme of the Christian Union contains a number of conditions that such treaties should fulfil in order to obtain the support of the Christian Union. One of these conditions is: no separate legal arbitration. "In case of disputes, multinational investors go through the regular course of justice, like citizens and SME entrepreneurs." Is that still the Christian Union's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u220	That is one of the points of discussion and concerns we have about this CETA Convention. I am not even talking about the Mercosur Convention. Although this CETA Convention has an improved form of legal mediation, we still have concerns about it. That is why I think it is right that we should weigh that very well against each other and use the Christmas trees for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u221	I understand on the one hand that the Christian Union must weigh this up and that it needs time to do so. My party has always been very clear about that. My question is whether the Christian Union still has the view that multinationals should simply challenge and settle disputes by means of national law, and that, if they do not, they would not, in principle, be able to regulate such a treaty on the support of the Christian Union. I understand that this needs to be weighed on a case-by-case basis, but is that still the Christian Union's party position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u222	That position is still our party position. Our preference for national law is strong, but as a group we will have to weigh it against the total package that exists with CETA. We'll let you know about that consideration after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u223	Finally. In any case, it is good to hear that the Christian Union has not changed its position on this point. That gives hope to all those people who are against CETA. I've listed that whole list in my input. That is why I am not surprised that I have a number of motions here from local Christian Union departments, from different municipalities and from provinces, who have also spoken against CETA. But the cabinet did not want to raise these concerns of local authorities in the Netherlands in Brussels. So it did not want to discuss this with other Member States: hey, in our country this kind of thing is happening and there are these kinds of concerns. The Christian Union has also voted against my motion, while your local departments also express these concerns. What is the Christian Union's explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u224	I know that motion. That motion asked the Minister to check in almost all Member States exactly what was going on at local level about CETA. I don't think that's much of a useful motion. We can do it, but where does it lead? In the end, this Chamber must make a decision. We are here in the Chamber responsible for ratifying the Convention. That treaty has many components, of which the ICS is one. Another concern we have, for example, is the track-and-trace when it comes to animal welfare and food safety. I can mention other concerns, but we all have to weigh it up in the Joint Commission, to see if we, as a national state, still have democratic control over the forthcoming legislation that the European Commission is going to prepare. These are all matters that we need to consider. I hope to be able to tell you more about this after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u225	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u226	Thank you, Mr President. We've got one Earth and we're gonna have to do it with it. The case wants the Netherlands and other western economies to make up much more than the earth can accumulate in natural resources every year. The worst thing about it is that we do not feel it, but the people who are already not so easy in this world, the people who live in the most vulnerable areas. The painful thing about this debate with the Minister for Development, but also with foreign trade, is that we are telling ourselves here that we are fighting against inequality and poverty, as if there is a law of nature that has determined that inequality and poverty are there, and we, well as we are, are contributing to reducing something of that misery, while we are causing that misery ourselves. So the first point I want to make in this debate with this Minister is the budget for development cooperation. There is inequality, there is poverty and there are people who have to live under terrible conditions in the world, and we in the Netherlands agreed that we would spend 0.7% of what we all earn every year on helping people who need it very much. Now the case is that under this cabinet the percentage of our national income we spend on development cooperation is lower than it has been in 40 years. That is embarrassing, especially because the way we make that money makes the conditions for those people even worse. We saw Minister Wiebes being tortured in front of the cameras of the NOS. For the first time, he had to admit that economic growth is actually a setback. It means that the greenhouse gas emissions associated with this economic growth in the Netherlands have again increased more than they have been able to solve with their climate measures. The Animal Party has been saying it for a long time: economic growth is not the solution but the problem. It seems that at least Minister Wiebes is starting to feel that way. But this minister is still deaf and blind to this uncomfortable fact, while she is still responsible for combating climate change in view of the consequences for the poorest people, who will be the first to take the hardest blows from it, while they have not caused that climate change. The Dutch economy and the other Western economies make it much more difficult for people in developing countries than you could solve with any development budget. But given the fact that we do, we have to get back to that 0.7% at least. I have tabled a proposal to devote at least 130 million from the budget surplus, which we have thus earned with additional climate change, to the climate action promised to try to deal with the consequences in developing countries. Mr. Chairman. If you're new to this file and have lived in your own cosmopolitan D66 bubble for years, I imagine you don't realize how our economy is getting people into any more trouble elsewhere. I imagine this is new information for you and you need to get some new information on it. But we would have expected this minister to understand that by now and to realize that whatever you do to development cooperation, you will be in the way of your own goals if you do damage that is much greater than you can solve. That gets in the way of your own human rights agenda. This brings the girls and women you say you want to stand up for, into a much more distressing position than had been necessary. If we keep doing what we did, we keep getting what we got. If this minister does not reflect on the consequences of the aggressive trade policy that the Netherlands is pursuing under its rule, then her ambitions for strengthening the position of girls and women are nothing. We pointed out to her that girls and women were crushed in the international trade chains that are defending this minister. We pointed out to her that you cannot guarantee food security in the world never unless we stop breeding, using and killing animals for meat and dairy in rich countries, such as the Netherlands. We pointed out to her that the unequal distribution of food in the world is a direct consequence of our own overconsumption. The Minister doesn't reflect on that at any time. She's actually doing the same thing as the Prime Minister in an earlier debate: she's not even listening. Mr. Chairman. The current food system is a threat to both humans and the planet, the Minister of LNV and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, i.e. Schouten and Kaag, have acknowledged. But then they do nothing, while we know from an IPCC report recently presented that livestock farming does not produce food but destroys it. If you are left with only 4% of the nutritional value that you could have had if you had fed food directly to people and not wasted in the gastrointestinal tract of cows and if you know that the loss of nutritional value in pigmeat is 90%, in dairy, 75%, in chicken meat is 50% and in eggs is 40%, then this Minister cannot stay away from the discussion that must be rushed and encouraged by her. Then you cannot stay away from the fact that it is an unfair distribution of food if we continue to eat as we do? What if we continue to use trade deals with China, for which we import calves from Ireland and Lithuania to fatten them here in the Netherlands in a sad calf-fertiliser and then put their carved body parts on the plane to China? Where is this minister when it comes to defending the right to food for everyone? Mr. Chairman. This Minister seems blind and deaf to the damage she herself causes with the aggressive trade policy. We saw that many people had actually put their hopes in this minister because she spoke fine words about human rights and strengthening the position of women and girls in the world. She says things like, the way you look at someone far away is a measure of civilization. I'm telling her: Dare to look at the damage you do to someone far away is a measure of civilization. Then it would not be appropriate to look away from any objections to the trade policy which makes it much more important than the human rights agenda and the agenda for girls and women. Then it will not be a bad thing for her to look away from the objections to the Mercosur agreement with Brazil, where indigenous peoples are being driven away. The indigenous peoples are begging us to put an end to the trade deal with Brazil. But the Minister doesn't make a sound. We asked her where she drew the line. Where do you draw the line for a trade relationship with someone who creates a sales market with human rights violations? The Minister is willing to give the Netherlands as a market to Bolsonaro, while we know that deforestation under his regime has become much stronger than we knew and then over the past few years. The indigenous peoples are also driven away from their land. Where does the Minister draw the line? Why does she tell President Bolsonaro that he can simply sell the products he can grow in deforested areas and for which people have been chased away and murdered on the European market? This goes against circular agriculture and against the interests of Dutch farmers. It's mostly against her own agenda. The question was raised as to whether Minister Kaag would be politician enough. We saw her defend a deal in Buitenhof as we know it from an old coal power politician. She's bringing in the war. She's threatening a crisis. She puts away all the opponents as stupid and uninformed. And she's doing some serious deception herself. She says about Canada: there are standards for animal welfare. And also, if we can't do it with Canada, who can we do it with? The Minister pointed out that the animal welfare requirements in Canada are much lower than in the Netherlands. Farmers don't protest for nothing. The same discussion applies to the trade deal with Thailand, Mercosur and Ukraine, where, thanks to this minister, she has not opposed it, and the quota for imports of chicken meat has been increased. We haven't heard a sound from her. If this minister does not realise that she urgently needs to contribute to a review of the Dutch economy that remains within the limits of the earth...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u227	Remember your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u228	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But then her talk about human rights and a fair distribution of resources in the Netherlands is worth nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u229	No, Mr. Bouali. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr. Bouali, you've interrupted a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u230	I'd like to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u231	A personal fact? Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u232	Mrs Ouwehand's language is just really bumping into my chest. There's a minister across the street from her. She can ask her questions. She can't agree with her policy. But the words she chooses just can't be. Just... just... just... just... just debate normally. Just tell me what you think. You might be able to stand far from each other and get closer. But just use normal words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u233	What words have I used that would be inappropriate? Or was it just uncomfortable facts that D66 would rather not hear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u234	"Talks" and words like that. If you speak to the Minister, you will simply say: I do not agree with you, you have a different policy. But not "talking" and all kinds of things you have... I have to rewind it, but it just bumped into my chest. I think you can just, normally debate without using all those derogatory diminutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u235	I am also in the banks and I see how this minister is committed to BuHa-OS. I find it rather disrespectful how Mrs Ouwehand speaks about the commitment of this minister. That bothers me and I want to say that, because this minister is working very hard to make the world a little more beautiful. Well, that's a good thing to say. That is why I would like to give this reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u236	This has happened before. The moment you reveal in this Chamber the painful fact that the way the Dutch economy, foreign trade, works and shows that the aggressive export strategy of the Netherlands is putting other people in greater trouble in this world than you can ever solve with development cooperation, everyone is kind of uplifting. But then I'd like to hear evidence to the contrary. Because we still have the IPCC reports. The Monitor Brede Prosperity is there, isn't it? Earth Overshoot Day is here, isn't it? And this shows that in May the Netherlands already prepared all the raw materials that would be fair to us. And this minister is working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u237	That wasn't my point. I am happy that we are making substantive points. We're here to debate. But "to the person" is just not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u238	What's wrong with it? The Minister is responsible for development cooperation. It has a very nice agenda in this area which we support in itself. But at the same time, the Minister is responsible for foreign trade and for deals that are directly at the expense of all the efforts you could make to save the climate and to stop biodiversity loss. In that respect, we fail like a fool. The climate crisis is falling apart. The loss of biodiversity is dramatic. This Minister looks away from this in her trade policy, and makes it more important than the goals she claims to pursue on the basis of her responsibility for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u239	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u240	Mr. Chairman. She became known for her work for the poor and dying in Calcutta. Her nickname was: the saint of the gutter. You know who I'm talking about, of course, Mother Teresa. In 1979, during the Year of the Child, she won the Nobel Peace Prize. In the acceptance speech she stood up in poignant words for the unborn child. I quote her: "We, as we stand here, may say that our parents wished for us. Many people are very worried about the children in India and Africa, where many of them die of malnutrition, for example. But millions die deliberately because of the mother's will. That is the greatest destroyer of peace these days. What have we done for the child? Let's make sure that every child, born or unborn, is wanted this year." So far, end of quote. Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly endorse Mother Teresa's words. Because not abortion, but mother and child: that's what I call social progress. Let us therefore also move towards future parents in development policy with practical, financial and medical care and support. Does the Minister also want to make extra attention and budget available for this? The SGP is also concerned about commercial egg donation from developing countries and about baby factories, such as in the Nigerian city of Lagos, where the police recently liberated 19 women. Amazing and unacceptable. My question is whether the Minister in the SRGR policy puts the fight against these abuses at number one. Unfortunately, those other concerns that Mother Teresa pointed out, namely concerns about malnutrition and hunger, are still often justified 40 years later. As far as the SGP is concerned, it remains one of the reasons why we, as a prosperous country, should continue to strive for a budget of 0.7% of gross national income for development cooperation. Does the Minister share this conviction? If so, when will the Netherlands achieve this goal? I have just understood that there is not only a majority in the Chamber but also within the coalition. So with her record in international negotiations, it must be easy for this minister to achieve that goal next year. I'm curious to hear her own answer. Mr. Chairman. In this light, I would like to draw particular attention to the importance of small farmers in developing countries. For they alone provide hundreds of millions of people daily with their daily bread. Does the Minister agree that here, really here, there are specific opportunities for our embassies, for example in the area of food system analysis and the promotion of networks? Is the Minister also willing to add a sixth theme, water, to the next Annual Report Policy Coherence? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the trade. The Netherlands has a lot to offer from top sector policy on issues such as food security and water. What country in the world has as much to offer as we do? I therefore call on the Minister to strengthen public-private cooperation in these areas and to improve the provision of services to start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises, who, with clear respect for the SDGs, want to storm the world market. Mr. Chairman. In trade agreements, the SGP fears salami tactics. Each individual agreement says that it is not so bad. But the sum of agreements, such as those with Ukraine, Canada and Mercosur, does matter, especially in the agricultural markets, which are also referred to, where the price is very sensitive to the balance between deficit and surplus. My question to the Minister is whether the SGP can assume that it also takes this into account in its overall trade policy. Mr. Chairman. Then health care. Every year millions of people, including many children, are victims of preventable infectious diseases. In recent years, as the initiator and donor of Gavi, the Netherlands has been shown to contribute effectively to the fight against this. The SGP would like the Netherlands to continue to support this, even more so, in the coming years. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I am considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u241	A brief question to the SGP on the trade agreements. I believe that the SGP will not escape the fact that farmers want clarity. The role will include CETA and Mercosur. Thailand has added new ones, while it exports even more chicken meat to Europe than Ukraine and even Brazil. The question is whether the SGP can already clarify its position on these trade agreements. To begin with, of course, CETA is on the roll.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u242	Let me start with CETA. I think I am going to support Mr Voordewind's request to postpone it a little. That'll give you room for a good diving experience. A small group such as ours must make a huge effort to get all these budgets through. As of next week, we will be able to do some more research. We consider trade agreements to be very important. If you look at CETA, you can see that in recent years we have had a huge trade surplus between Canada and the Netherlands. Perhaps, unlike others, we find this very positive, because that means that business, especially our people in the Netherlands, is at work and can get to work. There is one point for us, which is also the point of further study: what does it mean for the agricultural world? Hence the question I am asking here in the broadest sense. We are also going to make this consideration for CETA: what does it mean in width for the agricultural world? Take the example the CDA gave earlier. We also see these advantages, but there will be disadvantages in a number of aspects. We want to weigh it down. In this way, we will consider whether we vote for or against. But we will certainly not vote lightly against CETA. I have just made the other arguments. The trade surplus, but also our international standing, is linked to this. That weighs very heavily on us. So I just can't give you any clarity yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u243	I don't know if the SGP was at the CETA hearing. I get it if it wasn't, as a small fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u244	No, we weren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u245	I think it is important, whatever the SGP may have received, that toxic substances may be used in Canada which are not permitted here, that the products produced using these toxins may simply be sold on the European market and that Canada may even lobby for relaxing residues on those substances. Farmers are right to be angry about that. The pig farmers also feel exchanged in this agreement. I hope that the SGP takes those sounds before it comes to its final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u246	I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for that information, and we will certainly accept it. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. I was just working on the topic of health care. That's how I get to UNRWA. In view of the corruption, mismanagement and benefits to condemned Palestinians, the SGP considers the freezing of aid funds to UNRWA to be very appropriate. At the same time, it is very undesirable that crucial care for Palestinians should stop thanks to their own leaders. For example, the Augusta Victoria Hospital in East Jerusalem, where my colleagues and I were on work visits last summer, provides excellent oncological care, including to Palestinians. Very impressive. Will the Minister press for support for such care rather than support through UNRWA? I would like to comment on that. Mr. Chairman. Last year a motion by Mr Voordewind and myself was adopted on SDG 16, strengthening the rule of law as an explicit objective for diplomatic posts. How is this motion implemented? As far as I am concerned, the answer to that question may also be in a letter and does not necessarily have to be given orally in the debate. In conflict areas such as Libya and Yemen, the rule of law is under extra pressure. Can that teenage girl go to school safely? Is that woman safe to go to work? Moreover, people with disabilities or disabilities are often the child of the account. As far as we are concerned, we must begin by taking concrete and structural steps to improve their situation with emergency aid and education. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to inform the Chamber by letter of its intentions and progress by spring 2020. Mr. Chairman. A closing quote from Mother Teresa's Nobel speech in Oslo will be my true conclusion. It was like this. "How wonderful is it that from here a center of peace has been given, and that from here the joy over the life of the unborn child radiates. God bless you." And I fully agree with that last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u247	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u248	Mr. Chairman. In a globalising world, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is perhaps the most important ministry. In addition, this ministry also has the international climate. Many important issues do not concern themselves with national borders. Whether it is money flows, CO emissions, nitrogen deposition or mass immigration, it is impossible to look at all these things only from a Dutch perspective. We're a small country. We make a third of our money abroad. We owe our prosperity to our companies, and to the hard-working people who have made our economy great at home and abroad. We must never forget that a good economy is the basis for the stability and prosperity that we have been taking for granted for decades. The world around us is changing rapidly and has great influence on us. That is why it is very important that we make the right choices, that we protect ourselves from unwanted external influences and that we work together with like-minded countries. That is precisely where you can ask yourself whether we always set the right priorities. For the Dutch entrepreneur it is almost impossible to explain that we want to maintain an atomic deal with Iran with all force, while Iran does not keep to this deal in any way. The trade volumes are negligible, the regime is reprehensible and our ally, the United States, has already cancelled the deal. Yet we continue to fight for a good relationship with Iran. I don't understand. At the same time, we have problems with CETA, the trade agreement with Canada, a friendly democratic state, which has been showing a positive result for years. And now, because of the absence of a majority in the Chamber, the Netherlands is not threatening to ratify CETA. This is an absolute disgrace and a blow to the face of the Dutch business community, which benefits from this kind of trade agreement. I am therefore pleased that this Minister of State is defending CETA to the fire and to the sword, and also continues to undermine the many untruths about CETA in the media. Mr. Chairman. An even bigger problem is China. Through Alibaba, billions of articles are sold annually, including in the Netherlands. Billions of packages are sent around the world for free. Alibaba blows our shopkeepers out of our shopping streets in an unprecedented way. As the Netherlands, we must limit ourselves to this. We've been chasing the facts for years. We're not actually giving our entrepreneurs a chance. I'll list it again, for the umpteenth time. China does not comply with WTO rules, nor with OECD standards. Chinese companies can simply buy Dutch companies, and we cannot buy Chinese companies. With us, state aid is prohibited, but the Chinese government is a major sponsor of Chinese companies. There is a large-scale violation of patents and intellectual property, which puts development costs at our disposal, while turnover and profits flow to China. Marks are forged to my heart's content and counterfeit products are offered for a fraction of the price on Alibaba, such as the Chinese electricity cables I always carry with me. A lot of Chinese electronics are unsafe, so our data can be stolen. Chinese do not pay VAT if the value is less than €22. Fortunately, this will be lifted as of 1 January 2021, but under €150 import duties are still not paid. I wonder why not. And who checks the value at all? I do not expect customs to have sufficient capacity to check whether a package is worth €150 or more at the moment. Within the Postal Convention, China, and I have already asked questions about this with Mr Weverling, says that it is a developing country. That's why they barely pay transportation costs. The impact on our climate of online shopping is enormous. It is therefore very important that transport costs become realistic at some point. For example, if they are €25 per order from China, it becomes attractive to buy from the local store. The knife then cuts both ways: less CO2 emissions and more sales for our own retailers. I think I'm in the same quadrant as Mrs Ouwehand now. Mr. Chairman. I know that these matters concern several ministries, but I would like to hear from the Minister what we can do in the short term. The cabinet has a China strategy, but I am curious to see what measures this cabinet has taken since publishing this strategy. Does the Minister agree with me that an increase in transport costs could have a positive effect on our climate? What progress has been made within the WTO in achieving a level playing field with China? Haste is necessary, because the Dutch retail trade is going to be over the top. We have all received the power of e-mails from the Dutch business community, from the Dutch shopkeepers. Mr. Chairman. The Brexit is one of the biggest threats to our foreign trade. Britain is an important trading partner, but it is also an ally. I am surprised at how negative we are talking about the British and how we are taking part in the hard line within the EU. Here too, we must be careful. We cannot afford to fight with the British at all, because for that the trade volumes are simply too large. Why would we cry with the wolves in the woods, with Juncker, with Tusk, with Verhofstadt? It is very important that the British leave the EU in good harmony. Can the Minister therefore indicate what opportunities it sees within the EU to secure this trade relationship with Great Britain? A good development is that the Netherlands is working with the so-called greedy four within the EU. I've never heard of that before, but I think it's a nice concept. Together with Denmark, Sweden and Austria, we are committed to limiting the exploding EU budget to 1.00% of gross national income. Very good, because the growth in Brussels grows without control and without brake. We should form more coalitions like this. Together with countries such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Austria, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Lithuania, for example, we could force Europe to do something to stop mass immigration. In this light, the emergence of the Small Eight is also a good addition to the G7. Together with other small countries with a large economy, we can do more than just do it. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the import levies on steel. The import levies on steel from the Trump administration have hardly touched our country. But what is our surprise? Beautiful family businesses, such as Van Merksteijn International, risk going bankrupt because of the countermeasures that the EU has put in place. Misplaced quotas which are good for the competitiveness of French companies cause the destruction of Dutch companies. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I know very well that Minister Kaag has done an enormous amount of work for this; only, we are standing still now. I think it's time to escalate this file. I do not know what we can do, but perhaps we can use our veto a little strategically. Of course, we cannot do nothing while our interests are being squandered. Does the Minister see any possibility of getting out of this steel impase? Mr. Chairman. Last year I tabled a motion asking the government to go back to 15 focus countries and not to spend any more money on countries that are members of the OECD, such as Chile and Mexico. Can the Minister state what is going on with the implementation of this motion? Last year, together with Mr Van Weerdenburg, I also tabled a motion calling for greater transparency in the use of OS funds. More specifically, we asked for one website on which you could see which projects are being implemented, where those projects consist of, what the policy objective is and what the impact is. I have to say with pleasure that the website is openaid.nl in the air; and it is damn handy. Compliments for this transparent performance. Then we have achieved something in the past year. Then there is the question of Mali. I'm afraid I haven't been to the AO. Over the past year, we've had a lot to say with the money that disappeared in Mali. The Malian Court of Auditors itself concluded, after extensive investigation, that irregularities of EUR 1.13 billion had been detected, of which EUR 401 million in fraud. Astronomical amounts disappearing in the pockets of fraudsters. Of course, the Minister deserves a compliment on the fact that she insisted on public access and even flew to Mali to ensure that the Malian government itself went public, but the relativisation that only 0.15% of Dutch development aid is leaking away because of fraud is too one-sided. We now know, thanks to Mrs Van Weerdenburg, that this is EUR 265 million of Dutch money. There are too many cases where this goes wrong, and often for very large amounts. I have to say that it goes through Europe very often. That 1.13 billion has disappeared in Mali; that is a fact. We've also been swindled for $900,000 in Tanzania. Another big one: the EU Trust Fund for Africa lost €4.2 billion in 2015. Those are crazy amounts. There is something structurally wrong with controlling the use of all this money. If you do this in a company, you'll be impounded immediately; you'll be bankrupt and you can go home. Looks like this is gonna go on. Does the Minister agree with me that control of European funds in particular should be improved? What consequences do we draw from the fact that things go wrong so often? Shouldn't we just stop donating to European funds for a while? Or should we, perhaps, make a smarter idea of our donations only afterwards and make them dependent on an approving audit report? Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the next point. It's a shame, of course, that Mr. Weverling always gets to go before I do. He's already made some points, but I'm just gonna make them anyway. He used my speech from last time, I think, but okay. The subsidies for activist clubs. That is an irritation that we still share. I still find it odd that we spend millions of dollars on organizations that then go to trial against the government with this money. I know we've talked a lot about organizing your counter-force here; then we have to pay people who are going to kick our ass. I am against it and fortunately the VVD is still against it. I just heard that Milieudefensie got $8 million. It's downright ridiculous. Can the Minister indicate which grant recipient organisations have taken action against the State in recent years? Does the Minister agree with me that this situation is at least undesirable? After all, people are voting for us. That counterpower is supposed to be in this house. It is, of course, out of order that we are going to pay people to undermine our own policies. Mr. Chairman. My compliments on the proper handling of the Voordewind/Van Haga motion on payments to the Palestinian Authority. Discussable payments to convicted Palestinian terrorists. It is good to see that no Dutch development money has been allocated to the Palestinian Authority. Compliments also to Mr Voordewind for his perseverance on this dossier. It is important that we achieve the greatest possible impact with the limited resources we have. Now there are organisations that have proven to be very efficient and achieve huge results. Last time I mentioned that return, but it didn't go very well, so I'll just talk about impact now. Gavi is such an organization and it would be good if Gavi were rewarded for the excellent global vaccination work. Does the Minister see any opportunities within this budget to help Gavi? I think Mr Stoffer just mentioned it: the return on Gavi is fantastic. Each invested dollar is worth $16. I know that in her reply the Minister will probably say something about: it must be a complete story with an integral policy. I couldn't agree more, but Gavi is a good part of that. If there was any room for that, that would be great. I would like to make a comment on birth control. In a few years, we're gonna be at risk of being on this planet with 11 billion people. You don't have to be a mathematician to figure out what effect this is going to have on energy needs, on food needs and on our climate. That is why, like last year, we are again calling for attention to be paid to this issue. CO and nitrogen have been said a lot lately, but it must also be mentioned in this budget treatment, because CO and nitrogen oxide do not comply with national borders. That is why it is somewhat strange that we are the only country that seems to have a problem with this. The EU appears to be more flexible than we think. It is strange that we are consistently making the standards stricter than the other European countries. Can the Minister therefore explain why we are not simply applying the same standards as other EU countries? Can the Minister explain how such a huge panic breaks out in the cabinet at the time when there is a ruling from the Council of State that is not the same as expected? Specifically for this ministry: has there been any consultation with colleagues from other EU countries to see why they have no problems with nitrogen oxide? It's still a strange story. You're looking very deeply at me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u249	That is right, because I thought this debate was about the external trade and development cooperation budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u250	This has to do with foreign trade and international climate. Of course, it's very difficult, but a lot of those things that affect entrepreneurs and business come from a lot of different ministries. Then you can go anywhere, but I can also ask Mrs Kaag. Hopefully he'll do something with it. But I'm rounding up. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister to help protect the Dutch entrepreneur, where necessary, from malicious online shopping platforms and from EU excesses. In addition, cooperation must be sought with like-minded countries and not with countries with which we have nothing in common. I would then ask her to use the money we spend on development cooperation where the greatest impact is achieved, that is to say, the most return. But that means that we are transferring as much happiness and good things as possible where it should be, in a way that is responsible and transparent, so that it does not leak out of these huge billions through the EU. Finally, I would like to stress the need to harmonise rules, directives and standards as much as possible within the EU. It cannot be the case that the Dutch business community gets the fright of its life every time because the cabinet interprets EU rules more strictly than necessary. This is also applicable to a lot of things that have already come along. Whether it's arms exports or nitrogen, it doesn't matter. There's a line in there that I hope we can change. Mr President, this was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u251	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-24.u252	Thursday will be the Minister's answer. For now, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
