ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Housing Act (changes to maximum rent increase and local possibility higher percentage) (35254).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u2	Six speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. As the first speaker from the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands is in a housing crisis and not only because of a shortage of nearly 300,000 houses but also because of affordability. 800,000 tenants are in financial trouble. One in four tenants in the Netherlands has such high housing costs that there is not enough money left for other costs of living. Especially single people, benefit recipients and tenants between 25 and 45 years old in a social housing unit have difficulty living, says the Nibud. I think the cabinet is doing far too little to support these tenants. In the free sector, tenants are completely outlawed, but the Nibud sees that people in social housing also have too high a living burden for their income. By imposing additional taxes over and over again, the cabinet makes this problem not smaller for tenants but bigger. Because the cabinet does not intervene to ensure that the rents are affordable, corporations and the Housing Association made their own arrangements a year ago. They immediately asked the cabinet to make these agreements binding, but they did not, and tenants are the victims. As a result, only 25% of the corporations last year gave a rent discount to low-income tenants and over-rentals. How does the Minister feel about this? Is the Minister prepared to ensure that this becomes binding? The lease agreement was concluded a year ago and it is only today that we are discussing the first political impact. Part of it doesn't take over at all, part later and part today. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the total rent should only increase with inflation and no longer with inflation plus 1%. But the cabinet is also going to undress the rent-sum approach with the law that is before us today. By eliminating certain items, rental prices will be able to increase more. Firstly, the cabinet no longer wants the rent increase to count for a change of residents. The technical term then is "hire harmonisation." On this point, the Minister writes: keeping out of the rent-based approach to rental harmonisation could potentially lead to a higher rate of rent increase in the event of a change. It is difficult to say that the rent can increase if a house becomes empty. That's what we've seen in the past few years. On average, the rent went up by 7.2% after a change of residents. In the liberalised sector, this was even 11.5%. Maybe that's just percentages for the cabinet, but for tenants, it's really huge. If you consider that this year's average rent increase in housing corporations was 1.7%, then an increase of 7% is really huge. Why don't you say "no" as a tenant, 'cause where are you gonna go? Renting in the free sector? That's priceless. Secondly, I refer to the quality of houses. One in five households lives in an unhealthy house with mold. The cabinet wants to ensure that housing improvement is no longer covered by the rent-based approach. This means that the rent can increase if the mold is renovated and treated. On average, this year's rent of renovated social housing increased by approximately €50 per month. I am not even talking about improving housing in the area of energy saving. In short, I have tabled an amendment to ensure that housing improvement and rental harmonisation continue to be included in the rent sum approach, so that tenants are not chased further on costs. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As a blow to the head, the cabinet believes that a small step should be taken locally. The housing corporation, the municipality and the tenants' organisation can agree on a higher increase in rent. That is not enough for my group. If a law is to be waived, I think there must be serious reasons for that. I find it more appropriate and fair to give consent to tenants. I have also tabled an amendment to this effect, and I would very much like to receive a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet takes all kinds of measures so that the rents can be increased. Landlords don't have to use it, but they do. The opposite happens when the rent is reduced. 3% of tenants received a rent reduction in 2019. After a change of residents, that was only 1.4%. I would like to know from the cabinet how that is possible. Why don't the rents go down more often? Why doesn't the rent go down if a tenant who has a slightly higher income has received an income-dependent rent increase each year and is moving out? I think the practices and figures show how unfair the income-dependent rent increase is. I think it's time to delete it. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The lease agreement and this law concern only the social housing of corporations, not the social housing and the free sector rentals of commercial landlords. My question is therefore when the Minister will restrict rents in the free sector. Does the Minister agree with me that people with an average income are also entitled to an affordable home? Is the Minister prepared to raise the income threshold for social rent, as I suggested earlier? Mr. Chairman. I will leave it at that, but of course I will not do so until I have responded to the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u4	Absolutely, because Mr. Ronnes of the CDA is getting up. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u5	I have a question through you, Mr. Chairman, to Mrs. Beckerman. She says: at the time when a resident's house changes, it could be that the home owner, a corporation, improves the property, sustains it, so that there is less energy consumption, but despite the corporation's investment in that home and improves its quality, the rent should not increase. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u6	No. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. It's about the rent-for-sale approach. As you know, this applies to the complex of housing that a corporation has. Until now this category has been included and it has been said: of all housing, rents should only increase with inflation plus 1%. Those houses were covered. This meant that there could be a high rent increase in specific cases, as you say, but that the total rent should remain at that level. As soon as you take all kinds of things out of the rental fee approach, the rentals of other tenants can also go up. And that's what I'm trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u7	But then there will be a problem. With the Start engine, for example, we put the task of making a lot of houses more sustainable on the board of the corporations. All this will be borne by the corporation without being taken into account in the rent, while the resident has a lower energy bill. We're trying to strike a balance in that. If the proposal you are making were to be adopted, I think we would put the problem on the board of corporations and there would not be so much preservation in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u8	Sorry, I think you already saw me laugh a little bit. I'd really like to answer this question, because this is harsh, isn't it? This is harsh. The cabinet imposes tax on taxes on housing corporations. And the SP makes a proposal on a proposal not to do so. And every time your party congress says, "Don't do that." But you keep saying in the Chamber, no, we're gonna keep doing that. According to you, the corporations have no financial problem. And now you're telling me, if we keep the rents down, the corporations are gonna be in financial trouble. It doesn't have to be that hard. We are a prosperous country. We can also just say: hey, in the Netherlands you pay for a decent house a lower rent and we make sure that there are enough homes. But you don't want to. You want to tax these corporations on taxes. Yeah, you're in trouble. If you don't want that anymore, you've come to the right place to stop. But you must not say now that we should increase the rents because otherwise the corporations would have too little money. You made sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u9	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u10	As far as the landlord levy is concerned, I think we can get very close together. You know how my party feels about it. That's what we stand for. But I have to say that that money is mainly for new construction and when you spend it on new construction, you can't spend it on the renovation you're talking about. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u12	I really hope that we are getting closer, because I really hate how much taxes the corporations and therefore the tenants have to pay. Three months' rent goes straight to the state treasury. But I can tell the CDA is moving. The VVD doesn't; of course it reacts immediately in the direction of Mr. Ronnes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u13	But not through the interrupting microphone and that's why it doesn't count, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u14	That's gonna save you. I hope those reactions don't count more often. I really like that the CDA is starting to move, but what Mr Ronnes is saying here, I find difficult. He says, "I'd like something with the landlord's tax, but we have to increase the rents now." I would like to point out once again that the cabinet is giving EUR zero a subsidy for the sustainability of social housing next year. Zero euros. And you're saying that these corporations must be the starter engine. That's kind of harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u16	11 billion subsidy for biomass, zero euro subsidy for the sustainability of social housing. It can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u17	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u18	Mr. Chairman. This is the fourth time this week that we're talking about living on the subject. I think that is also very much needed, because we are currently in a housing crisis in the Netherlands. At the moment, it is extremely difficult or not for many people to find an affordable home. We are talking today tonight about an amendment to the Housing Act to convert the Social Rental Agreement concluded by the Housing Association on behalf of the tenants and Aedes on behalf of the housing corporations into a number of legal provisions. That is, of course, a good step in itself. I will go into that in a moment. Still, I think it's a missed opportunity. It's a missed opportunity not to do anything about the rest of the housing market, just to look at the housing corporations. And that can always be better, but in general this is not bad in the Netherlands. The major excesses are precisely in the free market, in the totally liberalised sector. I would once again urge the Minister to come up with legislation to finally curb that free market, because that is what we are really going to help Dutch people with. Then there's the specific bill. Like I said, it's good that it's there. We are therefore in principle positive. There are just a few points that we have questions about. We also have a number of concerns, and I am happy to present them to the Minister. First of all, we are missing a rent reduction scheme in this bill. In the Social Rental Agreement, the Housing Association and Aedes did agree on rent freezing or rent reduction. This means that people who have a lower income due to setbacks in life can get rent reductions or rent freezes. But I don't see anything about that in this bill. I really think that's a shortcoming. Can the Minister answer that? Corporations may refuse to apply or severely restrict the scheme. In addition, the tenant himself must apply for that freezing. We just see that a lot of people, for example people who are low-lettered, unfortunately do not do that. My question to the cabinet is twofold. Is the Cabinet prepared to make much tougher agreements on this? And if this is going to take longer, would it be willing to look, in the short term, together with housing corporations, for example, at how the information about this can be much better for tenants, for example? If we see that at the moment only a quarter of the corporations that have made national agreements, which are unfortunately not binding, are meeting, then that is really far too little. At least I can't explain that the tenant from one corporation gets it and the tenant from the other corporation doesn't. I think that's very crooked. Mr. Chairman. Another concern for GroenLinks is that the maximum rent increase regulated by this law is particularly beneficial for incumbent tenants. It's not good for people who're gonna rent another house. We understand that the rent increase following a change in the house is not covered by the legislation now proposed. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that is unfair and undesirable. Does the Minister share that view? Mr. Chairman. Our third concern concerns the fact that tenants are at risk of having to pay for large expenses under the present law. And yes, I totally agree with what was just said in the interruption: if your house is being preserved, then you can ask a few questions from the tenant. In my opinion, many municipalities and corporations opt for a fifty-fifty approach: half through a higher rent and the other half is the advantage for the tenant. Fine, we'd very much like to defend that. However, in the proposal before us, it is a risk that other major renovations will actually have to be taken into account by the tenant, and that renting will also become a sort of closing point in the unfortunately tight budgets of a number of corporations. We do not think that is desirable. In our view, the legislative proposal should be based on affordability. An investigation has been initiated at the request of the Chamber following the Ronnes motion. If this shows that corporations have too little resources to invest for a long time, we really do not think that the rent will be the solution every year. Then we really need to have another discussion in this house. As a result, we cannot, year in, year out, choose to increase the rents, often for vulnerable people, but go further, because they often have problems enough in this society. So please give a concrete answer from the Minister to the question of what she thinks is a reasonable rent. What's the end we can work towards? Is it reasonable, for example, if a tenant loses a lot more structuralally than if he could buy a property? In our view, that is not fair and I hope that we will not allow it to come to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u19	I shall then give the floor to Mr Koerhuis as the third speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u20	Mr. Chairman. Two interested parties who agree on something. That's good. Now there is a social lease agreement, concluded between the Housing Association, the association for social tenants, and Aedes, the association for corporations. The most important agreement is that the rents of social housing can increase on average with inflation. If we want parties to be able to make such agreements together, we must also give them room as a Chamber. We support this social lease agreement and therefore support the law. This could have been a hammer piece as far as the VVD is concerned, so I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u21	There's a question for you anyway. I am happy to give Mrs Beckerman the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u22	It is very nice of course what Mr Koerhuis says: it is very nice that corporations and the Housing Union make agreements. That's what I support. But these agreements are one year old and in the intervening years 75% of the corporations have not given the agreed rent reduction, even though according to that agreement people would be entitled to it. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the cabinet has not made that agreement binding. Do you think that the people who could get that rent reduction under that agreement are still entitled to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u23	I said it earlier in the procedural meeting: as far as the VVD is concerned, this law could have been dealt with much earlier and could remain a hammer piece. I have said it again: the law could have remained a hammer piece. In that case, corporations and tenant associations could have started working on it earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u24	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u25	This law is not the Rent Agreement. The Cabinet shop there. Some of the measures will be taken over, some of the measures will not be taken over, some will now be incorporated into the law and some will come later into the law. If we had done it as a hammer piece, we wouldn't have settled this yet. So my question is: if you think that agreement is so good, why does the cabinet not take over the agreements on rent reduction in the legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u26	The precise arrangements for the rent per corporation should be regulated in so-called performance agreements between aldermen, tenant organisations and corporations. If they ask us for some legal brackets for the rent-sum approach, that part they've agreed on the rent-sum approach in their social rental agreement, I think we should give it to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u27	I wondered if Mr Koerhuis would set a new course for the VVD here. Normally it is from the stone in the pond and a big right sound. Now he embraces the poldering: if House Union and Aedes say "this is good," it can just be a hammer piece. I welcome that and encourage it. Can we expect this steady line of the VVD in future in residential debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u28	This is an agreement between corporations and social tenants, their own tenants. So these are agreements about themselves. If they need legal notes to be able to carry out agreements better about themselves and between themselves, then of course we are in favour of that. But that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u29	I encourage Mr Koerhuis to adopt this real attitude in the forthcoming debates, because then perhaps we will get somewhere. Until now it was mainly the VVD that stood far on the right, still on the right of the PVV, shouting that there was nothing good, while the rest of the Chamber faced the problems with the housing shortage and the problems of the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u30	If you want to respond, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u31	Mr Nijboer does not have to doubt that: I will continue to make that right-wing noise about the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u32	Well, that's too bad, Mr. Nijboer. You had tried so well! I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, we are talking to the Minister about the first part of the review of the Housing Act and the Social Rental Agreement. In a recent broadcast of the Kassa programme, we saw the need for this legislation to be dealt with quickly. The Social Rental Agreement was concluded a long time ago and the procedure in the Chamber actually took too long. In this debate we are talking about various proposals concerning corporations, the agreements in the Social Rental Agreement and the way in which the Minister intends to introduce them. Mr. Chairman. We are very pleased about the role Aedes and the House Union played together. They took their responsibility to reach a social rental agreement at the end of 2018. They chose a nationwide basis for the rental policy with space inside to vary locally. This can only be chosen by local tenants, corporations and municipalities by common agreement on the basis of the situation of the housing market in that region. The most important agreement in the Rent Agreement is that the rents of the social housing of a corporation will in principle increase to the maximum with inflation on average. It has also been agreed that the rent of tenants who have a rent that is relatively high in relation to their income is not increased but frozen. It is also agreed that tenants who pay a rent above the social rental limit and are entitled to a rent allowance will receive rent reduction. Our group believes that this is a very sensible approach. In 2015, the revised Housing Act came into force. The law has been heavily influenced by the parliamentary survey on housing corporations. The government's commitment at the time was: corporations have to go back into the loft. The law limits and clarifies the functions of the corporations, and the supervision of the corporations has been considerably strengthened. The Netherlands does not have a uniform housing market that is the same everywhere in the country. There are areas that are growing hard and have a large housing shortage, and there are areas with shrinkage, where homes need to be demolished and will be demolished. The problems are also diverse: long waiting lists, middle incomes that cannot live affordable and the problems of viability. Each region has its own task, a task for which policy must be determined locally. We cannot determine that in The Hague alone. Mr. Chairman. The corporations play a crucial role in this. They must do so together with municipalities and tenant organisations. The Housing Act 2015 has a local perspective with, for example, the local performance agreements. The question for our group is whether it is enough already. This will be reflected in the examination of the additional changes announced by the Minister following the evaluation. The Minister announced that he would come forward with various additional proposals, such as the adjustment of income limits, household size differentiation, the drafting of the motion on policies to combat costly and cheap skeptics and to allocate appropriate policy adjustments. We have discussed this at length this afternoon, but still the question: how soon can we expect this amended legislation here and how quickly can the tenants in the Netherlands be clear about the new policy? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u34	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have already had a number of debates on housing today, so for short: the PvdA is in favour of reducing the landlord's tax, in order to allow more social housing. The PvdA is for regulating the rents, also in the free sector and for raising the points system to €1,000, so that middle income can also live affordable. I would also like to refer to the previous debates on this subject. The present proposal is an agreement between tenant organisations and housing corporations. I think it is a good thing that the rents are moderated. However, I would like to draw attention, with the SP and GroenLinks among other things, to the rent reduction promised to people, which has only delivered a quarter of the corporations this year. That's an ugly picture. It is not laid down in the law, but yes, you can expect it anyway. Tenants know exactly that these corporations have agreed with the Housing Union and that the Cabinet is behind it, but the law has not been filed and it is not binding. In Kassa, they had an item about that last Saturday. I thought that... It doesn't increase confidence in the sector. I would ask the Minister to see whether the commitments made can be met. In spirit, they all support it, although it may be formal and not legal. Can equipment be provided to the tenants and can this be done as soon as possible, preferably later this year? Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. A second and final point. The PvdA Group is concerned about the sustainability and the transfer of the costs to the tenants. It is often said that you actually have to look at the total housing costs. In itself that is also correct: if you invest, the house becomes more comfortable and your energy bill gets lower. So there is quite a bit to say in order to calculate part of this in the rents, but for buyers this also applies in part. If you put solar panels on your roof, you don't have an energy bill, and after seven years, you've earned it back and you still don't have an energy bill. While that tenant still has a permanently higher rent after seven years. I ask the Minister to respond to the proposal that part of the benefits that this also has should be provided to the tenants in a structural way. I think so myself, but that is arbitrary, fifty-fifty, half the proceeds in a higher rent and half the rents are owed to the tenants. Otherwise, the difference between tenants and buyers will become too big, especially with increasing energy bills in the coming years. Next year it will be slightly lower, but structuralally the energy bills will then get higher. That is still separate from all those tenants who are in a drafty house and are already getting a huge energy bill. I myself am very much in favour of a good relationship between the housing corporations and the tenants, and I am curious to see what the cabinet is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u36	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66, as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also from D66 much tribute to Aedes and the House Union that they have come to this social rental agreement. We are pleased that they have been able to reach agreement to ensure that the burden on low incomes in their homes remains limited and that tailor-made work remains possible. The proposal envisages that rents are on average higher than inflation. This does not mean very large rent increases for low incomes and customization in two ways. Individual rental prices can still rise with inflation plus 2.5%, and it can be decided locally to still make 1% on top of the rent. This requires performance agreements and I have questions for the Minister. Many municipalities already make performance agreements. How are these new leases going to be taken into account? Are they gonna change those performance agreements right away when this law is through, or is that gonna happen later? How do we ensure that all corporations and especially all municipalities actually make these rental performance agreements? After all, not all municipalities do that at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Customisation in sustainability can also be offered. That 1% is also possible on top of inflation. Corporates are already working together on sustainability. I wonder how many times corporations work together on such a sustainable plan. And what is the state of affairs surrounding the Renovation Accelerator, which can also be used for this purpose, for even more collaboration between corporations on sustainability? The law will then have to enter into force by 2020. It is very good to be able to get the rent rate going quickly, but we also want to monitor the results well. In other words, how often is that local customization and that 1% actually used? For example, are these agreements already in force in the performance agreements? Has that been anticipated? And we have the reports of the corporations themselves, but how do we measure those effects of the measure? And will the Chamber be informed? I can also agree with the questions that have been asked about the rent discount. I wonder what the Minister can tell us about that. There are many other proposals to be made. We're looking forward to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u38	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.20 p.m. to give the Minister the opportunity to prepare the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u39	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for the answer to the questions and the appreciation of the amendments. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the members for the questions. I'm gonna start answering the question right now. I'm doing it by party now. During AO's the answer often goes into cubes, but here there are less reasons to do so. Mrs Beckerman asked: why does the Minister not make the condition that the tenant organisation must agree to a locally higher percentage for the maximum rent increase? Indeed, I think it is important that the local higher percentage is agreed in the local triangle, so between the housing corporation, the tenants' organisation and the municipality. The legislative proposal therefore also regulates that the tenant organisation must agree to the agreements set out in the performance agreements. I also hear that the local parties are talking to each other. We will also modify the Handleiding Performance Agreements. But there are performance agreements only when all three parties have signed these agreements, including the tenant organisation. So he has to agree to that. Mrs Beckerman also asks: why are you getting the rent harmonisation and the rent increase for renovation from the rent increase? This is in line with the Social Rental Agreement. There are, of course, several agreements which strike a balance. On the one hand, there is a substantive adjustment by keeping the rental harmonisation and rent increase after renovation out of the calculation. But that is why it has been agreed that the percentage will be reduced to inflation following, rather than inflation plus 1 percentage point. So you could say that that 1 percentage point was always there at first, and now it's conditional on performance agreements. That is a good balance and I think that is a sound proposal. Because it's stimulating the improvement of the home. This is also important in the fight against mold and in the sustainability of housing. Aedes and the Woonbond have agreed that the remuneration paid by the tenant for the sustainability is also based on the average savings on the energy costs for tenants. I'll get back to you in a minute. Why don't rent down more often, also in relation to the income-dependent rent increase? With the income-dependent higher rent increase I offer a safety net when the income of a household falls back. A household like that gets a rent cut. In addition, I would like to emphasise the importance of appropriate allocation. As a result, households with a rent allowance are also housed at an affordable rate. Furthermore, we intend to make it possible for landlords to give a temporary rental discount. I expect, partly on the basis of the Social Rental Agreement, that there will be a reduction in rents more often in the future. I'll get back to you on that. That is a point that can certainly be highlighted by us through the social domain, through the municipalities. This is about combating poverty and preventing a fall in poverty. The law does not prevent the implementation of the new agreements on permanent freezing or rent reduction, so the law does not need to be amended for this purpose. I assume that all housing corporations will comply with these Aedes agreements, which are therefore also their agreements. In the Rent and Income Borders Act, which will shortly come to the Chamber, I make a temporary rental discount or temporary freezing possible. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we will also talk to Aedes and the Housing Association about the agreements they have made regarding the granting of the rent reduction, to see if we can facilitate the right to that part of the agreement along the way of the information provision and make it more widely known; some of you asked for it. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman and Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks asked about the rent in the free sector. As you know, the Minister of the Interior made a proposal for an emergency button in July. At that time, it indicated that for a variety of reasons municipalities and market players could not support this proposal. We see that local agreements have been made by now. In the meantime, proposals have also been presented on Prinsjesdag. I would like to inform you about this in a coherent package this spring. The Nijboer motion has also just been adopted, asking for a look at a proposal from the sector itself. We'll take all that into account. Mrs Beckerman asked a question about the SGEI income limit. For that, another bill will come to your room. We just touched that in the AO. I expect to send the effect of the differentiation of rental income limits to your Chamber in the short term. I suggest that we discuss that further. The question is whether the income-dependent rent increase can be removed. Last year, the Chamber adopted a motion asking for the current system of income-dependent rent increases to be improved. I'll work out that motion in the bill Rent and income limits, which I'll send to your Chamber. This assumes that we use the broadest shoulders to finance corporations through a higher rental estimate, to promote flow. By the way, all parts of the Social Rental Agreement are being processed. They have not all been processed yet, but are all processed; some faster because there was also an explicit demand for things to enter as soon as possible, still in 2020. That is why we are still late here on Thursday evening, because we would like this to go into effect by 2020. Sometimes parts are adapted in a slightly different way, but all parts of the Social Rental Agreement are being worked or are going to be worked on. For example, some go through the Climate Agreement, as I understood. They're working hard on that. Why don't we do that in one proposal? That is because there has been a question from Aedes and the House Union to incorporate the Social Rental Agreement into legislation as soon as possible. The maximum rent increase shall be calculated per calendar year. This legislation must therefore enter into force on 1 January. That's why we brought this forward. The other agreements, which I have announced I am going to process, require a slightly longer period of time and can enter into force later. I hope to be able to submit this to your Chamber later this year. Mrs Beckerman said that there is a zero euro subsidy for sustainability in social rents. That's not true. There is a discount on the landlord's tax for sustainability. An amount of 94 million has now been requested in respect of the reduction in the levy on sustainability. Previously, there was also an Energy Efficiency Incentive Scheme, STEP. Mr. Smeulders and Mr. Nijboer asked about the rent discount. Some tenants do not get the agreed rental discount. I've just gone over that. I have also indicated that, of course, I would like to address the housing corporations that do not comply with the Social Rental Agreement. Aedes has also promised that the corporations will actively approach the tenants. I will inform municipalities, as I said to Mrs Beckerman, about rent freezing and rent reduction, so that they can take that into account in their poverty policy. I think that's an important part, too. Then Mr. Smeulders asked what a reasonable rent is. If the House Union and Aedes come to an agreement on this together, that is an important starting point for me, in the sense of a reasonable rental price. In addition, the housing valuation system applies in the social sector. This reasonable rental price is therefore also linked to the quality of the property and is sometimes even adjusted for income. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Smeulders and also Mr. Nijboer asked how the tenant pays for sustainability, or how he actually benefits from the sustainability of the house. It is most important that tenants benefit from a more comfortable home when it is well insulated. I went to work in Schiedam myself once. That's where you saw houses that hadn't been isolated yet. You literally looked in between the frame and the wall. There was only one gas stove in an apartment. Then you think: how can children do their homework when they all have to sit in the living room in winter in a drafty home? I understand very well that there is a great deal of work to be done there. Then it is also important that tenants can benefit, first of all from the comfort. But also in the total rental fee approach, the charges for the tenant should be reasonable. Therefore, Aedes and the Woonbond have developed a table for a reasonable rent increase in investments in sustainability. In this, only a limited part of the savings on the energy account is reflected in the rent. On balance, therefore, they need to improve, which is actually the starting point for the table used. This is further elaborated in a letter sent to the Chamber in the context of the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u41	I do know examples and it's always rounded down in favor of the tenant. That is in itself positive. But what is the ratio between the cost of housing corporation, which has to make the investments, and the cost to the tenant? Does the minister have a picture of that? What is the effect of the table in that ratio?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u42	I can't say for sure because I don't have the exact information on that. But I understand that the ratio of 50-50 mentioned earlier is roughly the same as the starting point of the table. But that's what I'm saying with a blow to the arm, because I don't have it black and white on paper. It's still being worked out in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u44	Then the review of the Housing Act. Mr Ronnes asked if there was enough local space. As has already been stressed, the situation is not the same everywhere in the Netherlands. Giving local space is a spearhead of the three legislative proposals following the evaluation. The bill gives room for local deviation. The proposal for rent and income limits provides for local room for derogation for free space in allocation. With the third legislative proposal, which has now been given in consultation, regulation is more structured according to basic principles, thus creating more room for local content. When can we expect the legislative proposals following the evaluation? The Bill Rental and Income Borders is currently before the Council of State. I expect to be able to send this to your Chamber in the near future. The legislative proposal containing the other changes following the evaluation is in consultation. I will submit this to you before the summer of 2020. In the end, the pace of entry into force will depend partly on the arrangement here in the Chamber, I say. Mr. Chairman. Then there are D66's questions about performance agreements. Almost all corporations, municipalities and tenants already make performance agreements. If the House of Representatives adopts the proposal this year and the First Chamber starts next year, it can enter into force retroactively as of 1 January 2020. It could be part of next year's performance agreements. How often will it be used? And do we know what the effects of the performance agreements will be? We do not yet know all the performance agreements for 2020. We do know there are conversations going on. That is what you have heard in the press. We take this into account in the evaluation and we do follow the performance agreements every year. How often do corporations work together on a sustainable plan? In 2017, 82% of corporations already made performance agreements on sustainability. Mr President, those were the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u45	I'll take a look at the room. I had another question about the change in the legislation regarding the sitting in relation to the new tenants. GroenLinks spokesperson made a big point of that, but he's not here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u46	In defense of the Minister. One of my amendments is on this subject, so I can also imagine that it will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u47	Then we'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u48	I do not know whether the House would now like to appreciate the amendments. Otherwise, I can take it with me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u49	I always like it when it is possible in the first term, because then Members can ask a question about it in the second period. It can also be done in the second term, but if it is possible, I always prefer it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u50	I agree with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u51	Okay. Then that's what we're gonna do. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 6 by Mrs Beckerman. It also proposes that a rent harmonisation and a rent increase after a renovation should be included in the rent increase. It is important to look at the agreements of the House Union and Aedes in the Social Rental Agreement about the rent amount as a total. That's actually what I just emphasised. On the one hand, renovations are excluded from the calculation. On the other hand, the percentage has therefore been reduced. I think that is a sound proposal. I think it is important that corporations also have the freedom of policy to choose how they handle the rent in terms of harmonisation. Moreover, corporations cannot increase rents without prejudice to harmonisation, because people with a rent bonus income must also be allocated appropriately below the relevant capping limit. I therefore advise against this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 7. That's Mrs. Beckerman's, too. I believe they're all Mrs. Beckerman's. This amendment concerns raising the income limit to €55,000. We've been over this for a while. There's gonna be another bill. That is why the amendment is immeasurable and I must advise against it at the moment. I think we're definitely going to have this discussion on the bill that's coming. That will come to your Chamber in the near future. Then I'd like to talk about the proposals. The amendment in part No. 8 is about the condition that the tenant organisation must agree when a higher percentage is applied locally. In recent years, the Housing Act has ensured that these organisations have an equivalent position in making performance agreements. This was also welcomed in the review of the Housing Act. As I have just pointed out, it is important that it is agreed in the local triangle if a higher percentage is applied locally. This fills out the Social Rental Agreement. I will therefore, in consultation with the Housing Union, Aedes and the VNG, amend the Handleiding Performance Agreements. Mrs Beckerman's proposal contradicts the equivalence of the parties already enshrined in the legislation in force. I therefore advise against this amendment, but I believe that what Mrs Beckerman is trying to achieve is, in any case, materially assured, because all parties must be able to set up. Then there is the appreciation of the amendment on item No. 10. This is about limiting the rent increase to inflation levels. This bill deals with the increase in rents and thus regulates the average maximum rent increase over all homes. It is based on an average rent increase that is maximum equal to inflation, or on local agreements an average rent increase that is not higher than inflation plus 1 percentage point. The corporation has within this allowed rent increase policy scope to conduct its own rental policy and determine how it wishes to apply this average rent increase, but the maximum rent increase for individual homes has been inflation plus 2.5 percentage points since 2017, in accordance with the 2015 Social Rental Agreement. In the Social Rental Agreement 2018 no lower maximum rent increase for individual homes was agreed either. That border has remained the same. In the bill rent and income limits are in any case the measures applicable to the rental price of individual homes. I therefore advise against this amendment to this bill. If Mrs Beckerman still wants it, it'll fit better with the other bill. Mr. Chairman. These were my appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u52	Thank you. Then I'll look at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor from the Chamber to Mrs Beckerman of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I started by saying that the housing crisis is also about affordability. We believe that affordability is still under real pressure, especially for specific target groups. More and more tenants are really getting into trouble. There's not much going on with that. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled many proposals through amendments. I've noticed that there's not a lot more there right now. I'm gonna try that with two motions. Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to say now that I have my amendment to item No. Seven, I'd like to hold. I would simply like the other amendments to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u54	That is the Beckerman amendment to point No. Seven in custody. Go ahead with your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u55	Mr. Chairman. By means of two motions, I would like to try to get something out of it. The first motion concerns rent freeze or reduction. As I said in the first term, that was an agreement in the Rent Agreement. Last year 75% of corporations did not comply. That's really painful. Tenants who filled that out thought they were entitled to it because of that agreement, but they couldn't. That is very painful, especially because this is about a group that can really get in trouble or get into trouble because of too much rent. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Social Rental Agreement it was agreed that low-income tenants and relatively high rents could receive rent reductions or freezes;]] [[calls on the Government to make the agreements on freezing and reduction of rents in the Social Rental Agreement generally binding on all tenants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35254-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u56	Mr. Chairman. I think it was Mr Koerhuis who said that it is very nice that agreements can be made between Aedes and the House Union. I agree with that. The tricky thing is that no agreements can be made with commercial landlords, even if they rent out social rentals. I find that very complicated. The cabinet says: we leave that to the sector. You can find anything from that poldering. I'm gonna be different in that than a lot of other people. But for the other group far too little happens. That's why the next motion, which is about commercial landlords. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Social Rental Agreement contains agreements between housing corporations and the Housing Association, and that commercial landlords are excluded;]] [[calls on the government to also set up the inflation-based rent for commercial landlords,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35254-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u57	Mr. Chairman. So this is about social rental by commercial landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u58	My name fell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u59	Oh, I complimented you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u60	I'm a little surprised. An agreement has been made: the Social Rental Agreement is between social tenants and corporations. That deal was made between the two of them. Now, together with the Labour Party and GroenLinks, the SP proposes to include a very different group, namely private landlords, in that arrangement between the two. In most cases, it's just someone who has one extra place. This very different group should be covered by the same Social Rental Agreement. That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u61	That's kind of the reverse world. You have towering rents. 800,000 people can't pay the rent. Then the cabinet says: we are not all going to make rules for this; we leave that to the sector. He'll do that next. But then that doesn't apply to a group of tenants. This is specifically about people living in social housing with a commercial landlord. These people often have low incomes and often have payment problems. Why wouldn't you want to do something for this group? I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u62	Mrs Beckerman of the SP does not answer my question at all. There is an agreement between two groups: social tenants and corporations. Then we'll make it so simple. It's a deal between them and them. Mrs Beckerman now brings in a third group, private landlords, and says that it should also be included. That's not fair, is it? You can't explain that to that third group, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u63	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I really don't understand. We had a debate this afternoon. Then Mr Koerhuis said all the time: yes, if these corporations sell all their houses now, then they can build more. Those houses sell them to commercial landlords, among other things. And then he tells the people who live in those homes, who fall into the same target group, that their rent may increase to a maximum. What exactly is your message? What's your purpose? My goal is to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can rent an affordable house. I understand you're on the side of those commercial landlords. I'm not. Too bad you can't support the motion. I hope that your colleagues will, because I really believe that affordable living is a fundamental right and that we must ensure it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u64	Mrs. Beckerman, let me ask you a question. You say you want to keep an amendment, but we do not know that figure in the Chamber. You will have to withdraw the amendment and retable it by a law to which it might apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u65	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u66	The Beckerman amendment (Doc. 7) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u68	We may see you at a later point at that point. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Social Rental Agreement between Aedes and the Woonbond agreements were made on rent increases, on rent freezes and on rent reductions;]] [[whereas the provisions of the Social Rental Agreement on rent increases are incorporated in the draft law before us, but the agreements on rent freezes and rent reductions do not have a legal basis;]] [[Whereas low-income tenants who wish to benefit from a freezing or rent reduction must apply to the corporation themselves and the corporation is not obliged to comply with this request;]] [[considers that it is undesirable for tenants who, according to the agreements in the Social Rental Agreement, could not qualify for freezing or rent reduction to submit an application to this effect, because they are not aware of this scheme or are unable to submit an application because of, for example, low literacy;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with Aedes, the Housing Association and municipalities, to ensure that tenants are sufficiently aware of the possibilities of applying for a rent freeze and/or rent reduction;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate, within one year of the introduction of the present legislative proposal, whether and how it makes use of the possibilities to apply for rent freeze and rent reduction and to identify how corporations deal with these requests, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35254-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u70	I have a small point of order. We are talking about four amendments, while I have only got two. There's only two in Parlis. I've asked the messenger if there are any more. It's not known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u71	A total of four amendments were tabled yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u72	Thank you. The messenger was already on his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u73	Then that is clarified and you can include them in your assessment. In any case, you do not need a second term. I can see that Mr Ronnes is abandoning it. Mr Nijboer and Mrs Van Eijs are also abstaining. That concludes the second term of office. I'll see if she can respond immediately. There will be one more motion, and the Minister will be able to respond to it. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u74	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions by Mrs Beckerman, the first, the motion in part No. 11, generally declaring rent freeze and rent reduction binding. There is no legal basis for this. However, in the bill rent and income limits we are going to allow temporary rental discounts. As mentioned above, information to corporations, municipalities and tenants is extremely important. Aedes and the House Union will agree to that. They won't stand in the way of doing this. But in the Rental and Income Limits Act which we will soon send to your Room, I make a temporary rental discount or temporary freezing possible. That is why I would advise against the motion. Mrs. Becker could also hold the motion until the bill arrives. At that time, it can assess whether the bill complies with what it expects. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's second motion, the motion in part No. 12. In this motion, the government is asked to set up the inflation-based rent also for commercial landlords. We are not going to do that, but we are going to look, as a result of the Nijboer motion, at a proposal from IVBN on rental. The commercial landlords are not under central control, so that cannot be regulated in this way. I advise against this motion. On the third motion, the motion in part No. 13, tabled by Mr Smulders and co-signed by Mrs Beckerman and Mr Nijboer, I can give a positive opinion. I'd like to leave the motion to the House's judgment. I would like to inform the tenants, municipalities and corporations, because together is the aftertaste at that point that people need to know that they are entitled to it, so that they can also make a proper application. They must not only know this on paper, we must also ensure that it is practically feasible. Mr Smulders mentioned digital illiteracy in this context. That's why I want to talk to landlords, municipalities and corporations and I can make the motion in part no. 13 Judgment of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u76	I see that Mr Koerhuis has a question about that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u77	I do have a question. I hear the Minister say: inform, evaluate. But the motion also states... For the viewers at home: we now belong in the walkways some glass squink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u78	But we didn't hear an "au," so you can just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u79	Again, the Minister talks about informing and evaluating. To some extent, I can still follow that. But the first part of the operative part of the motion also refers to 'guarantees'. That, of course, cannot be guaranteed by the Minister, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u80	No, that's true. Thank you for that clarification. I see something small, and I would like to make a comment on the interpretation of the motion. The agreements on rent freezing and rent reduction have no legal basis. I just said something about a bill coming up. So I have to keep that battling for the arm; I have to make that remark on the motion. The same applies to safeguards. It is, of course, a question of ensuring that the agreements are effective together, so I interpret 'guarantees' in this way. We simply want to make sure that people can make use of the agreements that have been made. I see Mr Smulders nodding now, so we all agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u81	Absolutely. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-17.u82	The vote on this law, the amendments and the motions will take place next Tuesday.
