ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the goodbye to the outgoing Members. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister to the First Chamber. Members of parliament. Colleagues. Today's plenary session of the First Chamber of States General is the last in the parliamentary period 2015-2019. And I know that it has not occurred in the last 20 years that a plenary debate has actually taken place on the last day of a parliamentary term. That was the case today. The elections to the Upper House took place on 27 May. Next week, on June 11th, the new Chamber will be sworn in. No less than 44 members of this Chamber do not return to the new Chamber. The Chamber loses a lot of knowledge, experience, vision and power of thought, but may rejoice in the arrival of new senators who, like their predecessors, are rooted in society and bring their knowledge, experience, ambitions and ideals into this house. Each Chamber exchange shall test the continuity of the work of the political groups, committees, interparliamentary delegations and the Chamber as a whole. That is inherent in elections. The fact that the legislative and supervisory work of the Chamber will then continue is a sign of the vitality, the innovative capacity, but above all the continuity and stability of our parliamentary democracy. Before speaking to the 44 Members who say goodbye, and then I would like to say a few words on my own behalf, I would like briefly to mention a number of things which have been important in the last parliamentary term. Many figures on the number of legislative proposals dealt with, motions, interpretations, written questions and commitments can be found on the website of the Eerste Kamer. I won't bother you with that right now. However, I would like to give some key figures. This is how 1,136 legislative proposals have been dealt with in the last period. Seven times the Chamber has rejected a bill, perhaps it would be nice for the Prime Minister to know that my text says "five more times," but we have just rejected two of them and eleven times the government came up with a novelle. Ten times the government withdrew a bill. Last few weeks was a record with three repealed legislative proposals. Now you can already hear the Prime Minister say: we have been very positive!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u2	Well, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u3	The political developments in our country have, of course, also had an impact on this Chamber in recent years and on the way in which the Chamber is looked at. At the beginning of this parliamentary period, in June 2015, the Rutte II cabinet had no majority in the Upper House. This changed after the formation of Rutte III cabinet in October 2017: the new quadruple cabinet received a majority of only one seat. With last week's First Parliamentary Elections, the cabinet once again has a minority in this Chamber. My personal view is that this does not have to be a problem. It forces the cabinet to think through and motivate it as effectively as possible. Did it happen, Prime Minister? I see that this is the case. Over the past period we have experienced that the First Chamber is apparently a valued breeding pond or stepping up to other functions in politics or public administration. Wopke Hoekstra, a member of the CDA, became the new Minister of Finance. The group chairman of D66, Thom de Graaf, became the new Vice-President of the Council of State. Nico Writer, PvdA Group, Frank de Grave, VVD Group, and Marijke Vos, GroenLinks Group, were appointed State Council. Pauline Krikke, VVD Group, became mayor of The Hague and Bob Ruers, member of the SP, became a member of Deputy States in Limburg. In 2017, five MPs also left for the newly elected Dutch Parliament. It is good to see that the members of the First Chamber seem to enjoy broad appreciation. In fact, it did not remain with these twelve outgoing members; in total 22 members left the Chamber in the meantime. 22 out of 75! They did so for various and valid reasons, but there are many, too many as far as I am concerned. That, in my opinion, is not a good signal to the electorate. In the Annual Reports 2015 to 2018 of the First Chamber all information about the legislative work of the Chamber can be found. The Annual Report 2018-2019, published at the end of 2019, provides information about the last year of the session. It is certain that during the 2015-2019 Chamber period, the Chamber has once again held a large number of notable debates. I am doing a small, random selection of the series: the Electricity Act and Gas Act Bill, the Media Act Amendment Bill, the Building Quality Assurance Bill, the Ukraine-European Union Association Agreement Bill, the Intelligence and Security Bill and the recent proposals for the removal of asbestos and asbestos-containing products, Climate Act and Change of interest rate rate for the Higher Education Loan. However, most attention was paid, including in society, to the bill for the inclusion of an active donor registration system, the Donor Act, and the bill repealing the Advisory referendum Act. In all these cases, the discussion led to intense debates, in which the Court sought to assess the quality of the legislative proposals in a broad sense. For followers of constitutional developments, this parliamentary period also offered a sufficiently interesting case. I mention only the right to vote of the island councils in the Caribbean Netherlands, where the elected electoral colleges took part for the first time this year in the elections to the First Chamber, and the legislative proposal at second reading to remove the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor from the Constitution. During the past parliamentary period, the First Chamber has also drawn attention to the changing relationship between politics and society. As a result, the First and Second Chambers jointly asked the government in 2016 to set up a state committee to examine the functioning of the parliamentary system. The State Committee on Parliamentary System started its work in 2017 under the leadership of former Minister and Commissioner of the King Johan Remkes and published its report in December 2018. It confirmed the usefulness of the role of the First Chamber in our state system. The official cabinet response to the report is still awaited. Once there is, this Chamber will also examine the content of the report, but in the new composition. The Court also decided to examine its own working methods in 2016. The Temporary Committee Working Method First Chamber examined how the Chamber can strengthen its legislative and supervisory role. The First Chamber has accepted almost all the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee. This led to amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The First Chamber established a second temporary committee during the last parliamentary period, namely the Temporary Committee on the Development of Code of Conduct integrity. On 16 April 2019, he presented a proposal for a common Code of Conduct on Integrity for Senior Members. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber now refer to the Code of Conduct for Integrity of the First Chamber. Over the past four years we have considered two important historical developments in the Dutch parliamentary and constitutional history. In 2015, both Chambers jointly celebrated the 200th anniversary of the States General as a two-room system with a special unified meeting in the Knight's Room and with an open day for the public. Over the last year and a half, we celebrated the universal right to vote 100 years ago. This was the result of the radical constitutional change of 1917, which laid the foundations for universal suffrage as we now know it. The 1917 amendment made it possible for the First Chamber on 10 July 1919 to accept the Marshant's own-initiative proposal, thus giving women the right to vote and thus the right to vote. The Netherlands held the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2016. During that six months the States-General provided the parliamentary dimension. During the Presidency, the First and Second Chambers organised six conferences for fellow MEPs from the Member States of the European Union. These were four recurring conferences and two thematic conferences. In this context, meetings also took place with the members of the European Commission and the chairmen of the political groups in the European Parliament. I would like to thank the Prime Minister once more for jumping in at the conferences when Mrs Mogherini could not come. He let the Council of Ministers start later, so he could keep a story with us for all the foreign guests present. In its monitoring role in relation to the European Union, the First Chamber pays close attention to the transparency and democratic legitimacy of the European legislative process and, in particular, the disclosure of Council documents. The Chamber always addressed the Dutch government for a long time. Over the past two years, the First and Second Chambers have jointly moved towards the European institutions with the request to take concrete measures to promote transparency in the European legislative process. A dossier that has required, requires and will still require a lot of attention over the past period concerns the renovation of the Binnenhof. I am not going to bother you today with all the details of that dossier, but I am sure that the new Chamber will also have a good time to do so. Good support is essential in our work as MPs. This comes from a small Registry of involved, enthusiastic and expert staff, who have done excellent work over the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u4	Until September 2018, this happened under the direction of Griffin Geert Jan Hamilton. He's been modest on the balcony.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u5	We owe him a great debt of gratitude. Meanwhile, the director of the Registry has been in the hands of Remco Nehmelman for three quarters of a year and the service is of an unabated high level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u6	An exchange of clerks is not easy for all concerned, but especially for the staff of the Registry. I think I speak on behalf of all of you. You don't have to clap again. When I thank both the Registrars and all the staff for the professional support and great dedication in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u7	Two more sentences and you'd all have had the right to clap! They have also made an important contribution to the pleasant and relaxed working environment in our Senate. I don't want to forget Gerben and his staff. Thank you for your culinary support!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u8	Colleague, I should like to say goodbye to the individual Members. Today 44 members, including myself, say goodbye to the First Chamber. That's a hell of a number. In 2015, at the last Chamber change, there were 35. A large number of you have chosen to terminate their membership. Unfortunately, with a number of others, the results of the elections force us to leave. I shall briefly address each of the outgoing Members in alphabetical order, bearing in mind that I am undoubtedly failing to do so. Unfortunately, our time today is limited. I'll start with Max Earthema. It won't be the first time you've been dealt with first in company and on lists. If your last name starts with an a, plus two a's, that's nine out of ten times, I'd estimate. In October 2017, you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber for the PVV, first as a temporary replacement for Martin van Beek and later as his successor, after he died on 26 August 2018. You held your maiden speech on 19 December 2017 in the debate on the storage of renewable energy. In that you argued against the increase in energy storage rates and, in particular, against the government's haste in dealing with the bill. The Chamber didn't come to the reflection she's so famous for, you argued. You were, among other things, a member of the Justice and Security Committee. Given your background in the North Netherlands Police as coordinator of the crisis team in Drachten, it was not surprising that you became a member of that committee. You referred to your work with the police during your last debate last week in this room. The Chamber discussed the removal of asbestos and asbestos-containing products with State Secretary Van Veldhoven of Infrastructure and Water State. On that occasion, you referred to your experiences with the spread of asbestos particles following large farm fires and expressed your concerns. When you joined the First Chamber, you were voluntarily dismissed from the police force. The functions of civil servant and Member of the First Chamber are incompatible. Now you will return to your employer. Given your regional rooting you are also a member of the PVV in Friesland that will probably be a wrinkle-free transition. In an interview with the Leeuwarder Courant you spoke about the PVV's desire to abolish the First Chamber. Yes! You compared the First Chamber in that with a bear: "If you want to fight the bear, you first have to fight the bear in the cage." I hope you didn't have a bad time with the fight. Margo Andriessen. You were a member of this Chamber for more than eight months. You have already had a long track record in social life, including as chairman of the Dutch Voluntary Euthanasia Association. In March 2018, you were elected as a popular representative for the first time and became a member of the Amsterdam-Noord district committee, not knowing that a few months later, on 25 September 2018, you would hold a second popular representative position as a member of the First Chamber of the D66 Group. As a member of the Committee on Justice and Security in this Chamber, you returned as a lawyer to your field of expertise. Your first debate in this Chamber concerned the amendment of the Opium Act, in particular the extension of the power of closure of drug houses. In that debate, you referred to the adaptation of Article 13b of the Opium Act to the nickname of this law, the Damocles Act. This change of law makes it possible for a mayor to close a drug house with which the proverbial sword of Damocles hangs above them. On the same day you also had a second plenary speech, which you started in English, because it was a legislative proposal on the establishment of the Netherlands Commercial Court. During the debate on the majesty desecration in March 2019, you filed a motion for the first time, which was subsequently supported by a majority of the Chamber. Your proposal will therefore, in future, focus more strongly on whether it is a major change in criminal law proposals, so that, pursuant to the Statute of the Kingdom of Sweden, the government is obliged to consult with the three countries in the Caribbean of the Kingdom in advance. Sophie van Bijsterveld. You have been a member of the First Chamber since 2007. Together with your colleague Pia Lokin-Sassen, you formed the CDA Group's constitutional conscience. As a special professor of religion, rule of law and society, which you became during your parliamentary membership, you supported your speeches with the help of historical and theoretical developments. I understand you're across the street, the House of Representatives, known as "Professor Sophie." It's a rave characterization: you're conscientious, principled and a solid lawyer. With you count the substantive arguments for everything and you are persistent in discussing them. I do not think that all your opponents were always happy with that, but that is a core task of our work. In recent parliamentary years, you have also been a member of the advisory committee on the state system. The State Committee issued its report on 13 December 2018. The cabinet response to the report is still awaited, as I mentioned. I suspect that you would have liked to have debated this, but I am sure you will continue to follow it with great interest from the sidelines. Your interest was not only in the European part of the Kingdom, but also in the Caribbean. In January 2019, you were Vice-President of the delegation of the States General to the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation, in which you participated for many years. Your commitment has always been great there. For example, in 2013 you advocated unbundling the elections for the island councils and the electoral colleges for the BES islands. The Minister agreed to come up with a note. This resulted in the draft law, adopted by this Chamber in 2018, which regulates the formation of these electoral colleges. This has changed the Tickets Act. 20 March last, the electoral colleges in the BES Islands were elected for the first time to vote on the composition of the First Chamber that will be in office next week. Finally, I would like to mention your interest in the right to vote, and that of women in particular. From 2017 to 2019, we celebrate the universal right to vote for men and women 100 years ago. Last year, therefore, your book "What are you doing here?'. It concerns the development of the women's right of choice of 1883 at the time when Aletta Jacobs applied for registration in the electoral register until 2018, in particular within the confessional parties. During the presentation of your book, you quite rightly said that the real breakthrough was the 1917 Constitutional Review, which paved the way for the introduction of the right to vote for women and the completion of universal suffrage in 1919. Harmen Binnema. You are a Member of Parliament for eight months and two days today. In addition, your birthday is today and you are also celebrating a crown year. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u9	A week after your swearing-in, you made all your maiden speech during the debate on the minimalisation of gas extraction in Groningen. You have worked very quickly on that file and on other files, such as the Environment Act and the Climate Act. You did very well, which is not surprising given your career in science. In that short time, you forced respect from many in this Chamber. Membership of Parliament is not your first political function, by the way. You were a member of the Staten in North Holland for eight years from 2003 to 2011. As a politician at Utrecht University, you have incorporated this experience with other authors in the recently published book on provincial politics: Provincial politics: the provinces are democratically tested. In your maiden speech during the debate on the minimalisation of gas extraction in Groningen, you expressed your doubts about the extent to which, among other things, the safety of the Groningers was at the forefront of the bill. You compared the bill with a puzzle, where you learn to start with the edges and then fill the inner part. In your opinion, this proposal provided only the pieces for the edges, and in your opinion, the inner part was not yet completed. Elco Brinkman. Your name is inextricably linked to the political party for which you have been active since 1982: the Christian Democrat Appèl. In your years as Minister of Welfare, Public Health and Culture, you have been in this room regularly, but behind the government table. In June 2011, you took your first seat in the green benches; you also became group chairman of your party in the Upper Chamber. In your maiden speech on 25 October 2011, you called on The Hague to look critically at its own performance. This appeal was both for the cabinet and for the parliament. It was a recurring theme in your contributions to this Chamber. In the period from September 2012 to March 2017, you opened the annual General Political Reviews as the CDA's group chairman, as then the largest opposition party. In your introduction to these General Political Reviews, your long-standing political and administrative experience sounded every year. That was often in flowery language, with striking metaphors. If I may quote one from the latest General Political Reviews, in which you are satisfied with the state of the Netherlands, I ask all Members to pay particular attention: "Somberness should not be the first selfie we shoot at this overall picture of collective efforts." I'm just blinking my eyes. You looked with this understatement, because it was an understatement, back to the more than four decades you were active in the Powers of The Hague: your words. Your contributions were not limited to general considerations. You didn't shy away from the hard, purposeful politics in your contributions. For example, during the General Political Reviews in 2015, you asked the government in a motion supported by the entire opposition to reconsider the Justice Budget and make additional investments in the field of Security and Justice. The First Chamber adopted the motion and the additional investments were made. I make a gesture with my hands to indicate that it might have been more. Your contributions to the College of Seniors should also be mentioned. I have always experienced your input as very valuable, partly because you have always called attention to aspects that may have been somewhat underexposed. Last month, your fistful memoirs Build and store, after you announced in the summer of 2018 that you would not be a candidate for a third term in the Upper Chamber. A good work and very valuable for the history of Dutch politics. René Dercksen. In the first years of your membership of this Chamber, you were particularly involved in energy topics. In the debates, you always spoke firmly about energy policy, in particular about windmills. Your first debate, in 2015, was also about the wind energy bill at sea. You did not misunderstand in any clear language about the plans. You called it "the law subsidy to carry to sea." This clear and direct style, combined with a persistent interrupting technique, characterizes your way of debating. I am thinking in particular of the then Minister, Mr Kamp, whose straightforward approach to your verbal salvos does not seem to be easy. This persistent approach was also used during the handling of the now repealed bill Modernisation of Game Casino regime, which intended to regulate the privatisation of Holland Casino. You called on the Minister to step up his efforts to protect the employment of the employees of Holland Casino. That is why you were critical of the proposal. For a similar reason, protecting the safety of personnel on merchant ships, you were passionately in favour of the initiative proposal for the protection of merchant ships. In recent years, you have been particularly active in the fields of justice and security, with the same views expressed by the PVV. In these debates, you argued, in the way that you have shown, especially for heavier and longer sentences. Since January 2017, you have also been chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Asylum/JHA Council. You joined the First Chamber four years ago, after you had been a member of the Provincial States of Utrecht for the PVV since 2011. There you became the chairman of the political group and also after the recent elections for Provincial States you again became the chairman of the PVV Group. Undoubtedly, you will continue your clear tone of debate in the State Hall of Utrecht. Peter van Dijk. Four years ago, I also spoke to you because you would not return. What we didn't know at the time was that you would return sooner than expected due to pregnancy replacement for a group member. After that temporary replacement in the autumn of 2015, you returned to the Chamber in March 2017. Since 2011, you have been active for the PVV, first as a member of the State and also chairman of the PVV Group in Zeeland. Also in 2011 you entered the First Chamber for the first time. By the way, you have been politically involved for much longer. For example, in the 1980s, you were a city council member for the CDA for almost nine years in your hometown of Goes. In the Chamber, you dealt with home affairs in particular. Your maiden speech kept you on the bill rent increase on the basis of income. You decided your contribution with a personal note. Your house is more than 11 centimeters out of the lead. You're a real "manager" as you indicated at the time. In the debate on the reform of housing, you expressed a strong support for the elimination of commercial secondary activities by housing corporations, corporate directors and supervisors. Back to the core tasks of building, renting and managing in which the interests of tenants and house seekers stand first. For them, you were committed. Hans-Martin Don. "To fight for a society of solidarity." As one of the main characters in our new film "The First Chamber in the picture," you explain why you joined the First Chamber: to fight for a solidarity society. And that's exactly how we've met you over the past four years, as SP-First MP in The Hague and as director of parole at the Salvation Army. You are a committed, calm and optimistic MP with an ever positive look. The Registry could always appeal to you at events where the public likes to talk to First Chamber members, such as at Open Monumentendagen. You spoke passionately with visitors about the work of First Chamber members and the building. As a prominent member of the Committee on Health, Well-being and Sport, you have worked hard on issues in these areas, especially the issue of care. It should not be surprising that your maiden speech concerned the quality of care. For you, and with you, the other care spokesmen, the treatment in 2018 of the Care and Force Act and the Donor Act within the two-month period was a political highlight. Under the Health and Force Act, you managed to extract nine commitments from the Minister, including a final approach for people with confused behaviour and the understanding of coercive measures per ggz institution. You said during the plenary debate on the donor law that, I quote, 'do something for someone else to realize that we can all end up in a situation where we are suddenly the other, the core'. This will undoubtedly remain at the heart of your work at the Salvation Army in the future. Anne-Wil Duthler. "Whoever has the youth has the future," were your first words in this room, during the debate on 18 December 2007 on the bill Behavioural influence young people. That statement was open to many explanations, and so you meant it. You had been pregnant with your son for several months and had literally the youth in your lap. In doing so, you were also known to be the first MP to have a child during her membership of the Upper House. Haya van Someren preceded you more than forty years earlier, but that was in the House of Representatives. You joined the Chamber for the VVD twelve years ago and you leave this Chamber as an independent member of the Duthler Group. Enough has already been said and written about it. As a Member of Parliament, you combined great commitment with perceptiveness and perseverance. In the Chamber for almost six years, you were a highly respected chairman of the Committee on Justice and Security. You were also part of the guidance committee on the State Committee on Parliamentary System, which was established following a motion of your hand from 2016. In this motion, the First Chamber expressed its opinion: to ask the Government to set up a State Committee to answer the question of whether the parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof. The planned participation of the Netherlands in a European Public Prosecutor's Office has upset the moods in this Chamber because of the constitutional consequences. In the debate with the Minister of Justice and Security, you stirred the drum with others. You were able to convince the majority of the Chamber to adopt your motion in which you asked the Government to consult the Chamber on any extension of the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office at any time in the future. As an administrative and lawyer, you are specialised in topics at the intersection of governance, law and ICT. Your fascination with the impact of technology on society and in particular the rule of law is also your driving force in your work in the Chamber. In the last policy debate on the State of the Law, you expressed, among other things, your concerns about the difficult conduct of the digitisation of legal proceedings. In your practice as a lawyer, you will undoubtedly continue your work on this subject. Hans Engels. When you were sworn in in 2004, then President Timmerman-Buck said that it was not so much the question whether, but rather when you would become a member of the Upper House. She meant your resume, which at the time left no doubt about your involvement in governance and politics. In the meantime, you are the third oldest Member of Parliament, and in this Chamber over the past nearly fifteen years you have shown a great deal of commitment to governance and politics, with your own way of acting. That doesn't end today, because as acting mayor of Loppersum, you will remain part of the public administration. During your term of office, you have twice been President of the D66 Group in this Chamber. The first was that of a two-man group, the second of a ten-person group, after the departure of Thom de Graaf to the Council of State. In addition, you were the chairman of the Committee on the Interior for eight years, you were part of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber and, as a matter of course, of the guidance group on the State Committee on Parliamentary System. You were also Chairman of the Committee on Plenary Session in 2013 for legislative proposals regentship and parental authority minor King, for which Parliament met in the United Assembly on 3 December 2013. Most of the attention you received as a Member of Parliament during the debate in the summer of 2018 on the abolition of the consultative referendum, not least because of your party's long-standing positive attitude to this issue. You did not, however, get out of the field by the subsequent predictable criticism and underwent attention in the typical calm and at the same time relativizing manner. You're not only a Member of Parliament for D66, you're also a state lawyer. This was reflected in the motion you tabled in 2012, in which you asked the government to come forward with a proposal to include a general provision in the Constitution stating that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The motion was passed. The government then submitted a proposal that we dealt with and accepted in this Chamber more than a year ago. So the first reading is over. You will have to wait for the second reading outside the Chamber, but there is no doubt that you will do so with interest. And yes, with a relativizing quince. Mary Fiers. On 3 April 2018, you became a member of the Upper House. You have a background in care. Since 2014 you have been director of the Green Development Fund Brabant. Your political career began as a city council member for the PvdA in Eindhoven and later as alderman living and space in the college of B and W, together with your colleague Don, who happens to be saying goodbye today. Certain subjects are close to your heart, and that is what you are showing in words and gestures. During the debate on the legal status of transgender and intersex subjects earlier this year, you wore a rainbow-colored scarf, not to be misunderstood by the good understanding. In doing so, you continued the line with which you took your first steps in this Chamber a year ago. During your maiden speech at the time of the amendment of the Heat Act, you gave a personal story based on the zip code of your hometown. It characterizes your style: by shape to its content. You haven't gone through with that in the past year. Through Twitter and Instagram, among other things, you have given people interested in politics a glimpse into "the wonderful world of the First Chamber" and the Chamber with contemporary means thus also brought a little closer to society. The Registry could also always appeal to you on open days. For example, you were one of the participating senators at Open Monumentendag and last March during the open day on the occasion of the celebration of 100 years of universal suffrage. You were also very involved in our Third Chamber education project. You yourself taught about this and you coached students during the final debate in this Chamber. I hope that you will continue your work for the Green Development Fund Brabant in your own authentic way outside this "worse world." Anne Flierman. For almost ten years, you have been a member of the CDA's First Chamber, except for 12 days. Since 2015, you have been a member of the House Committee of the First Chamber, as the first Vice-President. You have made an active contribution to the Board of the Chamber. As chairman, I could count on you. During the previous term of office, you were chairman of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science. When you became chairman of the Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Organisation in 2013, you dropped the presidency because you attach great importance to separating interests. That draws your way of working, both professionally and politically. Your maiden speech included you in the Merger Test Bill in education that focuses on the scaling up of education. In doing so, you made a plea not to lose sight of human dimension and subsidiarity. You could draw on your own experience as a lecturer in history, as an official in the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science and as chairman of the board of directors of the University of Twente. In the First Chamber you specialised in the fields of economics, public health and infrastructure. Your CV on the website provides a detailed and accurate overview of the large number of plenary debates you have had during your term of office. Those about the Environment Act and the Electricity and Gas Act certainly stand out. You always debated from the content and based on arguments in your characteristic quiet style, with the run so familiar to me: almost apologizing, but at the same time persistent and yet on the way to the interrupting microphone. With your presidency of the Temporary Committee on Operation of the First Chamber, you once again issued your business card. You were the driving force behind, among other things, the committee's attempt to describe the political culture of and in the Upper Chamber. As it has been described in the report: "The culture and the related mores contribute to the orderly conduct of the exchange of views with the government, the debate in the Chamber and the way in which it takes decisions, in short, to the processes in the First Chamber." Herein your vision on the influence of culture on organizations sounds through. The Registry of the Temporary Committee remembers that you invited her to be critical of your own ideas. You were trying to argue. You will undoubtedly continue to do so in your work for the NVAO and other educational and care institutions in which you are involved. Marion Gout-Van Sinderen. You have the honour to be the shortest member of this Chamber today. On March 12, you were sworn in, on May 21, you made your maiden speech and today, June 4, you say goodbye. Literally a lightning career to fill a sudden vacancy in the D66 fraction. You did that enthusiastically and constructively. With your background in the public administration, including in various departments, in the province of South Holland and at ProRail, you brought a lot of experience to the Chamber and had specific input into the portfolios you took over from your predecessor, in the committees for Finance, Economic Affairs and Climate/Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and for Social Affairs and Employment. Your maiden speech took you two weeks ago in the handling of the bill Acceleration housing and facilitating sustainable development. In that you also referred to the moment of saying: "It is an honour for me today to be able to give my maiden speech on subjects close to my heart when separating the market." You're quitting as a Member of Parliament today, but that's not gonna end your political career. You're still a city councilman in Wassenaar. Good luck! Henk ten Hoeve. With an interruption of one parliamentary term, you were the face of the Independent Senate Group between 2003 and now for almost twelve years. You spoke recently in an interview against the increase in the number of motions and asking for copies of letters to the House of Representatives. "That's not our role, that's not our job," you said about the First Chamber. As foreman of the Independent Senate Group, you have been working for regional representation over and over again, whether it was your own Friesland or the Catalans who wanted to separate themselves from Spain by referendum. In 2011 you even asked questions to Secretary of State Zijlstra about his intention not to negotiate culture with the province of Fryslân, but with the city of Groningen. He replied to you in Dutch. You were a formidable and sharp debater, always focused on the content. That deserves extra appreciation for a member of a one-man group. You deliberately chose your moments, particularly in debates on Europe with a great deal of expertise. During the 2016 General European Reviews, also at the time of the Dutch Presidency of the European Union, you made a warm plea for more European cooperation. You said that 'Europe can do more than we can and that understood self-interest is better served by European solidarity than by nationalist-motivated isolation'. Your commitment to cultural minorities, the Europe of the regions and the local interest was the thread in your Chamber work, as well as the emphasis you placed on regional and local identity. The same applies to those of the Dutch in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, in particular Saba. You will return to Stiens this evening and will certainly continue to work for the region from there. I winskje jo all suckses yn this! I don't know if that was pretty, but I think it's Frisian. Helmi Huijbregts-Schiedon. Like most other mayors and former mayors among the MPs, you were an active member of the Committee for the Interior, which covers many subjects that cover the field of activity of the mayor in the Netherlands. The chairman of the BZK committee, Mr. Engels, now acting mayor himself, sometimes apologized to guest speakers during an oral consultation for "all those mayors." At the same time, mayors have a good view of society and implementation practice, an important aspect on which the First Chamber co-examines legislation. Since 12 June 2007, you have also been a member of the First Chamber since 2011 Vice-President of the VVD and have held a large number of debates on various legislative proposals in the last 12 years. Your approach in these debates is often a pleasant pragmatic one, without much talk. During the first reading of the debate on the removal from the Constitution of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor in 2015, but also at the second reading in 2018, you referred to Thorbecke: "If Thorbecke thought this was an unnecessary article of the constitution 170 years ago, it is of course a little strange that we have all taken 170 years to change it." Yeah, this is right, because it's from the Acts. A rather focussing subject of state law on which you spoke in 2014 was the introduction of the Advisory referendum Act and its repeal in 2018. At the time, your group was not in favour of the introduction of the consultative referendum and was confirmed in the practice of using this instrument. The group was therefore in favour of the repeal law. In your opinion, it was courageous to note that the expected effect that citizens would get the feeling of being heard again by the referenda has not been achieved in practice and that the law had even been counterproductive. Your commitment was not limited to dealing with legislative proposals; you also contributed to broader issues in the Chamber. For example, you were a member of the Temporary Committee Working Method First Chamber and very recently you were chairman of the Temporary Committee Development Code of Conduct integrity. The presentation of that committee's proposal seemed to be your last plenary appearance, or so you recalled on that occasion. In the meantime, last week you spoke about the legislative proposal Housing requirement aldermen and delegates. The exemplary way in which the Temporary Committee on the Development of the Code of Conduct on integrity has acted within the time frame that we had agreed with each other here in the Chamber is partly thanks to your Presidency. Frank van Kappen. I tried to imitate you, because you always have a loud voice, but I can't do that very well. Of course, you always spoke to the troops on the field of exercise. You were in the Chamber the authority in the field of defence and security. Given your background as a Major General outside the service of the Marine Corps, this may not be a surprise. Yet: authority must also be earned, and you do so, both inside and outside the Chamber. You were regularly "out of date" as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE and of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, two very important interparliamentary fora in the field of foreign and security. Of the latter, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, you even became Vice-President six months ago. In your contributions to debates on the state of the armed forces, for example during your maiden speech in 2008, you warn of the negative consequences of developments, such as terrorism and geopolitical shifts, which are rapidly changing our world in the field of the international security climate. That was eleven years ago; your words have unfortunately been given a predictive value. That has never been a reason for you to sit down, you remained tirelessly committed to dealing with these changes in a sensible manner and to warning and combating the threats. For you, for example, there is also a reason to argue repeatedly for more investment in defence. The Caribbean part of our Kingdom had your particular interest. You know the region well because you served there in your military past. You were part of the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation from the First Chamber, the so-called IPKO as a member of the First Chamber Committee for Kingdom Relations. In early 2008, an eventful IPKO took place on Curaçao. You managed to keep the calm by taking the delegation elsewhere for half a day, namely by arranging a visit to the Royal Navy. Subsequently, the various delegations were able to continue their discussions calmly. De-escalation. In the previous period, you were chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation. In this capacity, you were present at a number of special receipts from foreign guests, including President Xi Jinping of the People's Republic of China. With your international performance, particularly in the field of defence, you also performed the weapons spell of the Marine Corps in the First Chamber: Qua Patet Orbis. So wide the world stretches. Speaking of which, my brother served under you in Curaçao as a marine reserve officer. It was very special that I, forty years later, the younger sister, was your coach within the VVD group for the First Chamber work. Menno Cut. Like Mr Van Kappen, you have started your career in the armed forces, namely as a rider of the cavalry. You made the transition to so-called civilian life, first as an official at the Ministry of Finance, later as director, among other things as mayor of Almelo. Since 2010, you have been a member of the First Chamber where you have dealt with security and police, and finance. You have also been chairman of the Finance Committee since September 2018. You were no stranger to the Binnenhof when you arrived: as rider of the cavalry, I think it was the Huzars of Sytzama. You ride on horseback in the parade on Prinsjesdag. This was again and again a piece of music, literally a piece of music of horses and riders, in view of the narrow passages on the Binnenhof. As in politics, that requires policy and control. Given your background, it is not surprising that you spoke to the VVD Group on both finance and security. Your maiden speech included you in the Financial Markets Amendment Act 2010. The credit crisis of a few years earlier had led to this proposal and, bearing in mind the credit crisis, you advocated preventive supervision of clearly defined investment products in order to avoid repetition. In your words: "Markets must be free to develop through innovation. Market masters with good tools are part of this." When dealing with the proposal for a distance gambling bill, you made a caricature of the so-called prevention ladder to show that you were not convinced that it was the right way to deal with gambling addiction via a website. Your membership may be best characterized by a comparison with your hobby flying. You once said: "One of the pleasant aspects of flying is that you have an overview. Vision develops. That you know where you want to go and how you want to get there." As a member of the House of Representatives, you also had the overview, you were well prepared, and you knew what you were talking about. And above all, you did all that with an attractive relativization ability. Frank Köhler. You became a member of the First Chamber four years ago, but when you arrived with your eleven years of experience in Amsterdam politics, you were certainly not an unwritten magazine. In the First Chamber, as spokesperson for the SP in particular in the area of finance and taxation, you worked tirelessly for the socially weaker and assessed laws with a view to the socio-economic consequences of tax legislation. In addition to the standing committees, you were also a member of the Temporary Committee on the Implementation of Code of Conduct, which delivered its opinion two months ago. Also your involvement in the subject of living and renting, and your great knowledge of the housing corporations have not gone unnoticed. During the debate on the Modernisation Rental Commission and the introduction of landlord's contribution, you asked the Minister why a distinction was needed between the powers of the rental committees in the regulated sector and in the liberalised sector. For you, in that debate, but also in general, it was essential that people were given the same opportunities to submit a dispute to a rental committee. In your maiden speech, at the 2016 Tax Plan Package, you summarized your beliefs as follows: "The SP wants to reverse the trend towards ever greater inequality by raising taxes to bearables and making the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens." I thought we had a progressive tax system, but OK. Also in one of your last entries into the Chamber, to the Labour Market in Balance Act, you asked for attention to those groups in the labour market that could suffer from too much flexibilisation through temporary contracts. It is therefore not difficult to predict that your farewell to this Chamber will certainly not be a farewell to your permanent commitment to society. Kees Kok. Since October 2012, you have been a member of the Upper House of the PVV, while your political career started one and a half years earlier with the membership of Provincial States of Flevoland. With your official background, including the Ministry of Finance, the General Civil Pension Fund, the Executive Social Security Office for Government and Education, you brought a range of financial experience to the First Chamber. It was therefore not surprising that you became a member of the Social Affairs and Employment and Finance Committees and that you spoke to your group about social security and pension legislation in particular. In the export child benefit revision proposal, you spoke out your maiden speech, in which you advocated a rapid reduction in the export of child benefit and similar benefits. In your last plenary contribution, during the examination of the initiative legislative proposal Displacement test, you warned against incident policy. You said that it should be avoided that all kinds of incidents are too directly translated into occasional solutions that have a limited purpose and ignore a fundamental review or evaluation of the Participation Act, the Work and Security Act and the Quotum Act. In your contributions, you did not go on ice overnight and took the often very comprehensive information from the rulers very thoroughly to you in the legislative proposals. The information files prepared by the Registry were always thoroughly read by you, and your interest in the European files stood out. You were known in a positive sense as a file eater and could not easily be surprised for that reason. From this method, you really made work of this Chamber's controlling function vis-à-vis the government, an important task of the Chamber. Roel Kuiper. In 2007 you became a member of the First Chamber for the Christian Union and in 2011 you became group chairman, as successor to Egbert Schuurman. Since 2015, you have been chairman of the board of directors of the Theological University of Kampen, after working in science for many years. For example, you were director of the scientific offices of the Christian Union and one of its predecessors, the RPF. You were a special professor of reformorical philosophy at Erasmus University Rotterdam and since 2013 you have been a professor of Christian identity in social practices in Kampen. During your maiden speech on the reform of the European treaties, which eventually led to the Treaty of Lisbon six months later, you made a strong plea for strengthening parliamentary control because, in your words, 'where there is power, there must be counterpower'. This strengthening of the role of Parliament, which you regard as necessary, would prove to be a common thread in your further activities over the years in the Upper Chamber. This happened with the you characteristic and persistent commitment to also achieve results. Your most striking achievement in this respect is without doubt the report prepared by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation/Independence Public Services in 2012 under your inspiring Presidency. In the investigation of decision-making in relation to the privatisation and independence of public services, at that time a controversial subject, key players from different sectors were heard. But it didn't become a political investigation, complete with reckonings. On the contrary, in your opinion, the purpose of such a parliamentary inquiry should be to show Parliament that it has a learning capacity and cares about the quality, nature and outcome of parliamentary decision-making. And that's what you wrote. The Committee's investigation report, 'Stopped in connection', is mentioned regularly in plenary debates, but also outside the Upper House. You do regular interviews about it. The subject touched and touched a string in society. You yourself wrote a book following the investigation, entitled The Return of the Common Interest, which you gave Thorbecke's motto: "Government is not a special will, but brings the law of the whole to life." The quote illustrates the way in which you have spent the last twelve years implementing your membership of parliament: the general interest first. In 2015 you received the Princess Prize during the Princess Festival for your commitment, determination and very sharp mind, which makes you a valuable guardian of the core values of Dutch democracy, according to the jury report. I can only confirm that. Frits Lintmeijer. When you joined the First Chamber in 2015, you were not an unwritten magazine because you had been alderman in Utrecht for four years shortly before. Your debut in the Chamber was two weeks after the swearing-in of the present Chamber. On 23 June 2015, you held your maiden speech in the treatment of the bill Fighting Football Vandalism and Serious Trouble, Football Act in popularity. In doing so, your group had serious doubts, particularly with regard to Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Finally, the GroenLinks Group voted against the bill, while the Dutch Parliamentary Group voted in favour of it. Rightly a banging debut. Your specializations in the First Chamber were in the field of domestic and foreign affairs and social affairs. This was translated into the memberships of, among other things, the Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation Committees and for Social Affairs and Employment. One of your last plenary performances, when the Brexit Collecting Act was discussed, took place in the same way as in your first plenary performance: your group agreed to your intercession against the line of the House of Representatives. Also with this bill, the justification for your vote against was that the Minister could not have removed your party's concerns. This showed the ultimate consequence of the independent attitude that MPs should have. As leader of the Dutch delegation, you spoke at the Interparliamentary Conference on the Common European Foreign and Security Policy in Malta about combating propaganda. Your past in and your interest in communication will not have been strange. In your contribution, you advocated, among other things, the need to teach young people in media wisdom. Your career is dedicated to the public sector. If you were not in a public position as alderman of the municipality of Utrecht, you were involved as an advisor in organizations such as the Dutch Railways, the Dutch Public Omroep and the Dutch Opera. Even after you leave the First Chamber, you will undoubtedly continue to work for the public cause. Pia Lokin-Sassen. Your name fell earlier when I called you in one breath with Sophie van Bijsterveld as a state-law conscience of the CDA Group. In your case, I can also add 'as a historical conscience'. As a member of a true First Chamber dynasty, you were not the first Member of Parliament Sassen: your father, great-grandfather and great-uncle preceded you. "Only public spirit fits in with the family tradition," you said about it with the so distinctive sense of understatement for you. You have been a member of the Upper House for two years since 2011. On 7 February 2012, you filed a motion to include a general right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial judge in the Constitution. The motion was adopted unanimously. After your departure from the Chamber in 2015, the government submitted the bill to parliament to include a provision on the right to a fair trial. Just after your return to the Chamber in 2017, it was discussed at first reading in this Chamber, again acting as spokesman, and the bill was accepted by a large majority. Politics sometimes also means that if you disagree with the view of your own party or group, you have to have the courage to show it. For example, you were the only one in your group to vote against the bill on minimising gas extraction from the Groningen gas field. The safety of residents is no longer set above the security of supply in the passed law, you argued in a document submitted in the Dagblad van het Noord. In addition to your parliamentary membership, you actively published. Your biography on the website of the Eerste Kamer mentions twenty publications of your hand. A special publication is the anthology Bezield constitutionale, published in 2014, from the scientific work of former CDA-First MP Alfons Dölle, with whom you had a close connection. I have no doubt that you will continue to publish after you leave the Chamber. I look forward to your book on former Prime Minister Ruijs de Beerenbrouck. Maria Martens. When you became a member of the First Chamber of the CDA on 7 June 2011, you had a two-year sabbatical of the parliament. From 1999 to 2009, you were a Member of the European Parliament. Since 16 June 2015, you have been chairman of the permanent committee for Health, Welfare and Sport. I have been told that the committee meetings under your presidency have never been delayed thanks to the iPad: they always start immediately on "Apple-time." One of the most far-reaching debates in the last Chamber period, and probably for you personally, was the treatment of the Donor Act. He was adopted in the Lower House and then also led to a solid clash of views within the Upper Chamber. You then spoke on behalf of a divided CDA group. On the one hand, your group saw the importance of more donations, more conscious choices and more registrations, but on the other hand, a majority of the members of the political groups had fundamental objections to the draft law. It is then very difficult for a spokesperson to have the views and questions of all the members of the political groups adequately addressed, so that everyone is given justice. You have done a very good job of this precarious task. Your international interest didn't deny you within the First Chamber either. For example, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, you are chairman of one of the five specialist committees, the Science & Technology Committee. In November 2018, that committee talked about very topical issues such as the threat of a terrorist cyber attack, securing NATO's technological lead and Russian involvement in recent elections in NATO Member States. But you are also very active within your own party. For example, you have been involved both before and during your membership of the European Parliament and the First Chamber in many committees within the CDA, most recently as chairman of the selection committee for the CDA candidate list for the elections of Provincial States of Gelderland. I assume that you will continue to work for your party even after your membership of this Chamber. Personally, I would like to recall that I was particularly pleased with the way in which you, exceptionally expertly, conversed with the Archbishop of Prague, Cardinal Duka, when we were officially visiting the Czech Republic. For me, it was terra incognita, and fortunately, you were able to have a detailed exchange of views with the Archbishop. We are going to advance the break a bit, otherwise the drink will be hot rather than cold. Meta Meijer, you're next, but I'm gonna skip you now. I am going to suspend for a moment, because I would like to use this moment to take a little refreshment with each other, after which the next half will be discussed. There are a lot of them: 44, you hear it. I do my best to give everyone as much attention as possible, but I also need to keep pace. So I'd like to suspend for a little refreshment. I thought it might be nice to just have a glass of champagne right here in the middle of the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u10	Meta Meijer. When you joined the Eerste Kamer four years ago, you had a lot of political experience as a city council member in Amsterdam and as district council member in Amsterdam-Oost. You became a spokesperson for the SP on the topics of spatial planning, environment and kingdom relations. In this function you showed great determination in your struggle for better air quality in the capital. We also saw that determination in your work in the First Chamber. In the Committee on Kingdom Relations, you have become one of the great advocates of establishing a social minimum for the Caribbean of the Kingdom, as in the European part of the Kingdom. You also drew attention to this issue when discussing the Emergency Law for Saint Eustatius in February 2018: "The sad conclusion is that we still do not know what an acceptable social minimum is according to the government." Furthermore, in recent years, you have been particularly active in the areas of infrastructure and environment, and home affairs. One of your secondary activities in the Chamber is coaching students from groups 7 and 8 of primary education participating in the final debate of the Third Chamber. You have done so three times in the last four years with great enthusiasm. Together with your colleague and group colleague Hans-Martin Don, you often visited the offices of the clerks on Tuesday morning, greeting a variant of the advertising of a well-known travel agency: "Good morning, here are Meta and Don." "Meta... Don, I'm gonna repeat it again. Jan Nagel. The chess player with the seven political lives. When you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber on 7 June 2011, you probably remembered the moment, 34 years earlier, when you joined the First Chamber for the first time. From 1977 to 1983, you were a Member of Parliament for the Labour Party, from 2011 until now for 50PLUS. In 1978, as a PvdA senator, you held your maiden speech during the debate on the amendment of the Military Service Act. Your first contribution as First Member of Parliament for 50PLUS was given in 2011 by the bill Increase tuition fees long-students. In both cases it was a law that involved young adults. Your age had changed by now, but unchanged was your determined way of speaking, staccato, in which the listener could almost hear the accents of the most important passages. By the way, during debates, you always had a strange way of getting to the chair. Never directly through the hall, and the moment I thought "he's not there," you showed up to the left of the rostrum. Your political career is characterised by a sustained struggle for political renewal. First within the Labour Party, where you belonged to the New Left Movement, which arose out of discontent over the conservative course of the party. Livable Hilversum and later Livable The Netherlands arose out of discontent about the established parties. And also 50PLUS was a response to the national parties that are not sufficiently committed to older people. Over the past few years, you have worked in the Chamber on, among other things, the renewal of the institute. On 29 January 2013, in the debate on the budget of the States General, you tabled a motion on direct election of the First Chamber. The motion was rejected. And during the debate on the report of the Temporary Committee on Procedure, the First Chamber, you filed a motion to at least make committee meetings public through audio. You withdrew the motion later, but the signal was clear: all committee meetings had to be public in the long term. And that signal is understood: in December 2017, a proposal to that effect was included in the Rules of Procedure. In 2017, the bill that wanted to extend the naturalisation period from five to seven years was killed by the vote against the 50PLUS Group. You said that you were affected by the scale and seriousness of the problems that Dutch people are going to encounter abroad if this law continues. In recent months, you have been in the Chamber a little less often because of your health. It was nice to see you again regularly in the green benches these last few weeks. You'll be 80 in two weeks. I think that's worth a round of applause.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u11	The time after the First Chamber will be used to write a sequel to your autobiography. The title of 2001 "Over the field "Over the ground" shall apply without prejudice. Henk Overbeek. You have been among us for two and a half years as a member of the SP Group, and at that time you have been an expert on international trade policy in the debates with the government. You did not miss an opportunity to question the government calmly but sharply about forthcoming trade agreements. That has everything to do with your background. Until 2015, you were professor of international relations, in particular transnational politics, at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. You also investigated international rules for good corporate governance and international economic issues. The debate on the termination of the statute of the UN Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) was your baptism of fire. You opposed the intention, with several others, because I quote: 'UNIDO is a valuable and important link to enable countries to operate higher in the value chain'. The bill was stopped and a year later, after the Rutte III cabinet took office, it was withdrawn. More recently, in a plenary debate, you showed yourself to be a warm and firm advocate of the Child Labour Care Duty Act, in which until the last time it was unclear whether this initiative law was going to survive; that was what happened in the end. As editor of various scientific journals on international politics and international relations, you will most likely continue your reflections on these issues even after you leave the Chamber. André Postema. As a Groninger in Limburg, you unite the extremes of our country. No wonder you were elected chairman of the Benelux Parliament in early 2017. From the beginning of 2017 to the end of 2018, you have played that role with verve. In this Chamber, but also in the Gouvernement in Maastricht, and of course in Belgium and Luxembourg, the delegations of the parliaments of the three countries under your presidency have discussed various issues. You have given a new impetus to the Benelux Parliament. During your Presidency of the Benelux Parliament, due to the difficulties in the European Union about, among other things, Brexit and the role of the Union, more attention was paid to these partnerships of a limited number of countries in various parts of Europe. The members of the parliaments of the northern countries and the Baltic States also regularly joined the meetings of the Benelux Parliament. In November 2018, you received a Baltic award for your active contribution to stimulating regional cooperation in Europe. You have been a member of the Upper House of the Labour Party since 2011, of which a few months as group chairman in 2018. You were also a member of the Temporary Committee on Operation of the First Chamber and chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation for a few months. Your great knowledge of the issues of finance and Europe, in particular, was reflected in the debates on these issues. Your performance is characterized, in addition to a great knowledge of things, by a great persistence. One example of the latter is the motion you tabled to reverse cuts in education. The motion was passed, but the cabinet didn't see a leg in it. You then pursued the Minister of Education for a long time, albeit in vain, to get the motion carried out anyway. Unfortunately, the keeper doesn't always win. During the recent General European Reviews in April 2019, you stated that it is important that, despite increased prosperity and security in, among other things, the European Union should be vigilant, so that the good is preserved, and that it is also an issue to meet new challenges effectively. In your opinion, European cooperation is the best way to do this. Your maiden speech held you at the meeting in which the First Chamber iPad with VergaderApp was presented. My predecessor noted that you read your speech from the iPad, which was still a mortal sin in the Chamber until then. You noticed that it was your own iPad and that you had been going through exciting moments with it. That's why you called it your "lei." The maiden speech went off a "leen" roof by the way, and for the future I wish you all the best. Geert Reuten. "Szp'er Reuten," a senator with no staff, I should say. This morning I understood that from you: "Senator without staff" you call yourself. You are a member of the First Chamber at two weeks after one year, but not after you were a senator for the SP from 2007 to 2015. For your group, you are an economic and financial spokesman. In dealing with the climate law, you expressed strong criticism of the fact that the anchoring of parliamentary control was not sufficiently established. In a motion, therefore, you argued that the five-year climate plan should not only be submitted to both chambers of the States-General, but also require their approval. Your motion, which was not adopted, was based on the belief that the climate plan has or may have long-term far-reaching social consequences and will have to be supported to the maximum by society, represented by Parliament. You also advocated prior parliamentary approval when dealing with minimising gas extraction in Groningen. Your contributions to the plenary debates have always been thorough, and that is your scientific approach. In doing so, you laughed at your statements richly with figures and statistics, especially for the real insiders and always recorded in the well-known Reuts-footnotes. It seemed to me, therefore, no more than courteous to refer to statistics in this speech about you. I have therefore also summarised your contributions over the past year in figures, although I have not made a chart of them. You had nine plenary sessions, triggered three commitments and signed 15 motions. That does not include today's motion; it must therefore be sixteen. By comparison, between 2010 and 2015, these numbers were 31, 62 and 81 respectively. Unfortunately, I have not been able to compare these figures in percentage terms, nor have I had any further effect in footnotes, nor have I been able to say that I have a graph. From your entire performance, including in this Chamber, you are an expert. Here in the Chamber that was mainly economic and financial issues, outside the national borders you are known as Marx expert. This year appeared from your hand The little Marx, in which you managed to summarize the 2,200 pages of Das Kapital in only 80 pages. A huzaran piece! Marnix van Rij. You are one of the few people at the Binnenhof who still dare to go into the tax jungle and even the Tax Administration can show the way out of it in one piece. When you joined the First Chamber of the CDA four years ago, you became of course a tax expert on the Finance Committee. You were the CDA spokesperson in the annual treatment of the Tax Plan. You gave your maiden speech during the debate on the proposed tax measures. You spoke critically about the care of the legislative process, because the two Chambers were given only limited time to deal with it. In your contribution, you carefully filled out each of the individual measures under the Tax Plan. You dropped off your business card. This year you repeated this in the treatment of the Law on Emergency Repair Tax Unit. The proposal was actually put on the hammer list, but was put on the agenda of the plenary at your request. A special technical debate followed, which seemed to benefit both the Secretary of State and you. Frankly, I'm not so afraid of the rest of the Chamber. In your maiden speech, you referred to your own statement from 2000 that you hoped to enter the Senate by the age of 60 for a number of years. Well, that became a few years earlier. You haven't touched the 60 yet, that's not gonna happen until next year, but you can get the First Chamber off your bucket list right now. I wish you every success in new activities. Alexander Rinnooy Kan. Enthusiasticly, you entered this room four years ago as a D66 senator. Despite your extensive experience and knowledge of the public administration, including as chairman of the Economic and Social Council, you remained curious and interested in the many topics this Chamber deals with. You were chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, which is not surprising given your background. As a mathematician, you acted systematically in the Chamber, combined with philosophical considerations. That your maiden speech was part of the General Financial Reviews was in that light an appropriate beginning. Your broad interest and employability have also been shown over the last two weeks when you were spokesperson in the Labour Market debates in balance and the change in the interest rate rate for the higher education loan. In the First Chamber, you have also supported the position of self-employed workers in the labour market, as part of your permanent quest to improve and bring about the functioning of the labour market, also in relation to international developments. After all, you also like to look and see outside national borders. In your contribution to the recent debate on the Labour Market Act, you briefly looked back at your career: "The temptation is to see this proposal as the conclusion of a 30-year commitment on my part to many political efforts to improve the functioning of the labour market." Last fall, your book "Bordjes diving. Experiences of an optimist." You are opening the sketch of your life, an autobiography, I don't think, with the observation that life experience as a useful result of many small and large experiences is not entirely a fabrication. No doubt you will add more experiences to your life experience in the coming years. Bob Ruers isn't here, but I'll talk to him anyway. As far as I know, no MP has been sworn in as many times as Bob Ruers in the last 21 years, four times. The first time was on 19 May 1998 and the last time on 5 February of this year; and in between it was still in 2006 and 2011. So there's been a lot of talk in this house about Bob Ruers. From 1998 to 2003 he was also the group chairman of the SP in the Upper House. Bob Ruers was a highly qualified member of the Committee on Justice and Security. In the debates on the State of the Law and also on the budgets for the Ministry, he showed persistence when it came to the judiciary. In particular, he stressed that the quality and freedom of judges would be at stake if they were placed too much into what he called "a management mal." As a lawyer in claims cases, Mr. Ruers became an expert in the field of occupational diseases, and nationally known for his legal struggle for people who had been victims of asbestos-related diseases. He even obtained his PhD on the subject in 2012. His last plenary contribution to the Chamber was very appropriate in the debate on the proposal for the disposal of asbestos and products containing asbestos. That rounds the circle. Although... Bob Ruers' name was on the list again in this election, in place 16, so we might see him a fifth time. Sybe Sheep. There is not only water in the world, but also a world in water, according to the thirteenth century Japanese zen teacher Dogen Zenji. Your world is also in water. At home and abroad, you are the authority in the field of water management. Especially in the Balkan countries and in Central and Eastern Europe, but also in other parts of the world, they rely on your knowledge of the water. I noticed this myself last year when we visited Albania together. The programme included a discussion with the Minister for Agriculture, where we talked about floods and erosion of some large rivers in the country. The surrounding landscape and parts of agricultural land were affected by this. You made a very competent contribution, which was very much appreciated by the Albanian interlocutor. In the First Chamber you have been a member of the VVD Group since 2007, where you are of course also spokesperson on this subject, but also wider in the fields of agriculture, nature, European Affairs and foreign trade and development cooperation. Your maiden speech, however, dealt with a completely different subject: an amendment to the Municipal Law. Your broad employability also has to do with your diverse background: dikegrapher, philosopher, publicist, professor, farmer in the Netherlands and Ukraine as well as First MP. You showed yourself to be a strong debater where necessary. On the basis of a sound argument, you did not avoid the debate with your colleagues and the rulers. For example, recently about Brexit legislation, the Child Labour Care Act and, of course, the "never ending story" concerning livestock farming and manure problems. You have several books in your name on agriculture, philosophy and the rule of law. During your First Chamber period, a book on populism stirred up quite a bit of dust. You have recently completed another manuscript. As a publicist, but also as a director of some non-governmental organisations, you will undoubtedly continue to monitor political developments. In the history of this Chamber, you will continue to live as an involved politician, on whom people and the Chamber could build, with an entirely independent expert and, at the same time, a remarkable contribution to parliamentary work. Paul Schnabel. Although you could again sit in the First Chamber in the new Chamber, you have chosen to withdraw from your seat because of commitments already entered into. When you became a member of the First Chamber for D66 in 2015, two years earlier you had quit the job with which you were inextricably linked for fifteen years: Director of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. In recent years, your knowledge of the sociology of our society and of clinical psychology has frequently brought you to the fore in the debates in this room. As a member of the Committee on Health, Welfare and Sport, you did so, for example, in the joint laws on care and coercion. In your opinion, the three legislative proposals were always concerned with how to deal with people's behaviour. You said that behavior caused or caused serious harm to the person concerned and very often to others. However, not all questions have been answered. You said: "The special thing about that behavior is that it is not understandable by itself, that it is not correctable, not even by the person concerned, and that it does not usually turn out to be incidental either." Your maiden speech took you on 8 December 2015 in the treatment of the Heritage Act. In that debate, you asked for special attention to be paid to the national heritage in Groningen, such as men's farms and medieval churches suffering from earthquakes. You called the government government! In the context of the Heritage Act and the restoration of the affected buildings, the Commission will ensure the preservation of historical identity. In recent years, you have held various plenary debates, for example on the introduction of a system of phosphate rights in livestock farming. But also, of a completely different order, about changes to the Media Act, in which the then minister was very close. You said that your group is very committed to good governance of public service broadcasting. In your opinion, the direction of the NPO should be free from influences that can make the mission and objectives of the public service broadcasting instrumental for the defence of interests other than providing high-quality public media services. You have a large number of publications in your name. In 2018 your most recent book appeared: "I'm fine, we're bad. The feeling of the Netherlands." It shows readers, among other things, that their lives could have been very different, less free, less easy, if they were born elsewhere or before. The scientist describes, the politician wants to change. You're both, and we'll find that in your book. Since you read, think, write and speak quickly, as newspaper Trouw once wrote, I can predict without risk that we will be able to expect more publications from you in the future, but the inexcusable bestseller Acts of the First Chamber will be closed to you today. Koos Schouwenaar. In 2011 you became a member of the First Chamber for the VVD, after being mayor for more than thirty years, in successive Venhuizen, Castricum, Maarssen and when you joined the First Chamber still in Middelburg. When you stopped in 2012 as mayor of the Zeeland capital, you remained also as an import-Zeeuw representative of that province. In your maiden speech, which you held during the same debate as Mr Zeeuw Peter van Dijk, you said, 'I am here on behalf of my group, but also for Zeeland'. Your propriety and relativism made your performances in the Chamber to the point, without any rejuvenation. Sometimes with a slightly ironic undertones, you put your colleagues on the wrong foot to underline your point, for example by referring to your own position in the debate on the abolition of list combinations. "I would point out that the VVD is even the smallest party within the EU; the old saying "quisque sibi proximus" does not apply to the VVD, at least in this discussion." End of quote, that's why I'm not translating Latin. In the debate on the partial ban on facial clothing, you argued that it is common practice in the First Chamber that each bill raises the question of whether there is a problem and whether the problem is resolved with this proposal. In your opinion, the bill was intended to put an end to an uncertain situation, was religiously neutral and complied with the case law, which allowed you to advise your group to vote in favour of the bill. As a sports enthusiast, you also liked comparisons with football for example in the debate. When I asked you to let go of the metaphor you started with that sport in your answer, you didn't just give yourself up and ask, "What about another sport?" Schouwenaar has been a common brand at the Binnenhof for a long time. You are not the first Schouwenaar in this Chamber; your mother, Jo Schouwenaar-Franssen, was twice a member of the First Chamber between 1956 and 1971 and in the 1960s the second female minister after Marga Klompé of the Netherlands, in the Marijnen cabinet. Your father was also a parliamentarians, only across the street, in the House of Representatives, in front of the PvdA! We await the next generation of Schouwenaar. Mohamed Sini. On 6 December 2016, you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber for the Labour Party. Your maiden speech spoke out two months later, during the debate on the funding of philosophical education. The motivation for your First Parliamentary Membership, you said on that occasion, was to contribute to a society in which people are connected, a society that knows compassion and in which everyone counts. In the ensuing debates, you have always shown this drive in your distinctive and concise manner. This was most clearly reflected in the debate on the inclusion of a general provision in the Constitution which indicates that the Constitution guarantees the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights. You indicated that your group supports the inclusion of this provision, but that the PvdA Group would have liked the wording to be supplemented by the human dignity pillar. In the debate on the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act, you criticised the withdrawal of the law itself from an advisory referendum. According to you, this confirmed the view that the government is not interested in the opinion of voters, and that it is mainly afraid of a result that it is not waiting for. This will be felt by many as an increase in the gap between citizens and politics and, in fact, as a result of the alienation that this government is so afraid of, you argued. Since membership of the First Chamber was not compatible with your work as a strategic advisor to the National Police Corps, you have been temporarily suspended. I hope you'll be happy to return to the national police. In that environment you can also continue to work on the connected society that is so important to you. Danney van der Sluis. "I'm just gonna move on, we're not gonna let them drive us crazy." It was almost the first words you spoke in this Chamber. At the beginning of your maiden speech, more than two years ago, the sound fell away and this was your sober reaction. In March 2017, you came to the First Chamber as a successor to one of the four PVV-Room members who transferred from Binnenhof 22 to Binnenhof 2, or from the First to the Second Chamber. You have been a member of the Provincial States of North Holland since 2011, of which you have also been chairman of your party for a number of years. Your background is, as is the case with some others who say goodbye today, with the Defense Department, where you have been a professional military officer for twenty years. In 2001, you were sent to Bosnia. On your return, you held some civilian positions in the Ministry. In the First Chamber, you were spokesperson climate and energy for your group. Your maiden speech, I quoted you from it just now, as you stuck to the bill on the approval of the Paris agreement on climate objectives. Given your political colour, it was not surprising that you opposed ratification of the agreement. Involved in the Chamberwork and persons, debate with some bravure and always in for a chat. For example, colleagues and the Registry have met you for the last two years. We wish you every success for the future. Tineke Strike. Since 2007, you have been a member of the First Chamber. During the last parliamentary term, you were chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Between 2011 and 2015, you were also chairman of the European Affairs Commission. As long as you are a member of the Chamber, you are also a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You can stay that way for another three months to hand things over properly. However, you will remain active in and for Europe, but later in the European Parliament. Within this Chamber, but certainly beyond, you are a great expert on European asylum and migration law. It is not for nothing that you are a member of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly and in 2012 you wrote a report to the Council of Europe on the death of 63 Libyan boat refugees. During the June session of the Assembly, you will present another report on "pushback action" by Member States, literally pushing back migrants, in this case. In this Chamber, you regularly asked for attention to be paid to European asylum policy, but also to Dutch migration policy in relation to Venezuelan refugees in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Your maiden speech spoke to you during the debate on the government's commitment to the European Council on the revision of the European Treaties. In your speech, you said that you lacked an enthusiastic tone about the opportunities that Europe has to offer. At that time, and still today, you expressed that enthusiasm when it comes to European cooperation. For a long time we were together members of the Committee on Justice (later Security and Justice and now Justice and Security). I am giving an opinion to whatever government comes next: call that committee the 'Justice Commission', ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u12	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u13	Justice, Justice, sec! Maintaining, always asking and never letting go, that's how I got to know you. Back then, committee chairman Rob van de Beeten and I once said to each other when you asked about a subject related to migration: "Ah, dust for chapter 6 of the dissertation." All madness, it is admirable how you managed to combine all your functions, at Radboud University, here in the First Chamber and at the Council of Europe, and also promoted in 2011 on the decision-making of asylum and migration directives. To that I add the very recent pre-advisation together with Ashley Terlouw for the Dutch Lawyers Association. I know, because I got the book on the bus last Friday. We have seen the progress of Members of the European Parliament towards Parliament more often, for example with Mrs Martens and Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. However, you will follow the other route: from The Hague to Brussels. Given your expertise and work in the First Chamber and in the Council of Europe in recent years, it should not be surprising that you are now continuing your political struggle in the European Parliament, with attention to the national parliaments. The relationship between the national and European levels has been at your heart for a long time. You are familiar with Strasbourg, and Brussels will soon have no secrets from you either. Good luck! Mart van de Ven. When you joined the Upper House of the VVD four years ago, you brought many years of experience as a fiscalist. You were, among other things, an inspector at the Tax Administration and tax advisor and partner at Ernst & Young. It was therefore natural for you to become a spokesman for your group on taxation and social security. In the meantime, you have been acting as an independent legal adviser for several years, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The involvement with SMEs has also shown you in your work in this Chamber. For example, when dealing with the 2019 Tax Plan, you asked for specific attention to be paid to the tax position of middle income and small and medium-sized enterprises. And during the debate on the Labour Market Act in balance, two weeks ago, you and Mr Oomen tabled a motion calling on the government to come forward by summer 2019 with proposals for policies aimed at ensuring adequate protection ofzzp'ers at the bottom of the labour market and measures to combat bogus self-employment. In addition, your visor is aimed at Europe. You are the leader of the delegation of the First and Second Chambers of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You are acting as rapporteur-general on the Council of Europe's budget. In early 2018, you received broad support from the Assembly for a resolution. It calls on Member States to establish a strong legal and institutional framework, coupled with improved international cooperation, in order to better combat organised crime, for example by confiscating illegal assets. This was a successful action. I am sure that you will continue to work for small and medium-sized enterprises with a view to Europe. I wish you every success in that. Lambert Verheijen. In this Chamber, your name is inextricably linked to the treatment of the Environment Act. Four years ago, you were sworn in as First Member of Parliament for the Labour Party and almost immediately the bill of environmental law was discussed. Your experience as a deputy in Noord-Brabant, in charge of the environment, explorations, nature and landscape, and of course your experience since 2005 as a dike count of Waterschap Aa and Maas, were very useful. It is not excessive to say that the entire Chamber has benefited from this. With such a complex subject and extensive legislative dossier as the Environment Act cum annexis, it is always difficult to keep the overview and follow the right track. In that case, competent MPs will help enormously. In addition, the Chamber as a whole has devoted a great deal to this subject, in support and in information provision, including from third parties. Your plenary contributions have always been characterised by a striking approach. If you were speaking during the plenary session, you would always place the legislative proposal before you in a historical context. That may have to do with your background in theoretical sociology and sociological history. During your maiden speech at the Nature Protection Act, you outlined how the Nature Policy Plan of then Minister Braks formed the basis for the Netherlands Nature Network, designed to improve the environmental and nature objectives in the Netherlands 25 years earlier. You also used history in the debate on the introduction of a system of phosphate rights. Through the development of dairy farming and the associated growing manure surplus, you put the discussion on phosphate rights in a historical perspective. As a dike dike, you will continue to work with heart and soul for good water management even after today. I wish you every success in that. Anita Vink. You came in October 2018 as a temporary MP for D66 to replace Annelien Bredenoord, who took maternity leave, and you stayed in January 2019 as the successor of Hermanohr. Despite your short membership, you quickly joined the Chamber. As a city council member in Utrecht, you already had the necessary political experience that you could now reapply. In addition, the fact that you are a lawyer is a solid, inalienable background for the Chamber of Commerce. You're on to him, aren't you? Yeah? Okay. In the Committee for Health, Wellness and Sport you could immediately get started with the now repealed bill Improving supervision, detection, compliance and enforcement in healthcare. During the examination of that bill, you also made your maiden speech. You expressed your concerns about the possible impairment of medical professional secrecy by this proposal and, above all, about the fact that the insured person has no consent to access to his or her medical records. You were also spokesperson in the handling of the legislative proposal Clarification legal status transgender persons and intersex persons. In that debate, you described and endorsed, on behalf of your group, the purpose of the law, namely that everyone can be themselves and that discrimination decreases. As a lawyer with the government, to be precise with P-Direkt, the salary administration systeen with which the First Chamber has been affiliated since 1 January 2019, you have been held inactive because of incompatibility of functions. After this short but intensive room period, you will return. I wish you all the best. Janny Vlietstra. Four years ago you said goodbye to the First Chamber, but two years later we welcomed you again as successor to Nico Schrijver. Over the past two years we have also witnessed your commitment and commitment, your heart for social goals and culture and, not to mention, your Frisian sound in the Chamber. You became a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and you resumed your work in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development. You have been chairman of that committee since last February. In this role, you have developed into an important factor in the international contacts of the Upper House. You said recently: "The world is bigger than this Binnenhof." We didn't know that yet, but it is! In addition, you, almost necessarily, spokesperson for the justice and security of your group, when the last lawyer, Mr President, you know how much I regret that I left the PvdA Group. The way you picked that up is impressive. Above all, we noticed that you have many years of experience as mayor. This was reflected in the debate on the deconstitutionalisation of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor, in which you strongly supported the PvdA position, the elected mayor through the city council. You also made an impression in that debate for another reason. Only shortly before you had surgery on your leg and you were attached to a separate chair with a special table in front of you. According to a newspaper, you went in with "stretched leg"!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u14	Greetje de Vries-Leggedoor. The personification of the often famous Groningen sobriety you are, even though you lived and worked a great deal of your life in Drenthe. When you joined the First Chamber 12 years ago for the CDA, you were a member of the daily administration of the Hunze and Aas watership in the province of Groningen. Before that, you were among others city council member in Borger, State member and deputy in the province of Drenthe. Since 2013, you have been chairman of the Committee for Education, Culture and Science in the Chamber. In the OCW Committee, but also in the Chamber as a whole, you guard the open and respectful traditions and procedures of this institute. Your maiden speech was held in 2007, in the treatment of the Children's Budget Act. Since then, in many plenary debates, you have crossed swords with rulers and your colleagues. In particular, with regard to the Bill on Quality Assurance for Building, which was adopted three weeks ago after a third term, you played a shining role as spokesperson. The first and second term of the debate in 2017, then with Minister Plasterk, was described by the weekly for the construction of Cobouw as "The Night of Greetje de Vries." The article reads like an exciting boy book. "The Vries kept quiet. Woman of few words, the sobriety itself. Pride? In her own words, she simply carried out her task." A quote by Greetje himself: "The First Chamber tests for legality, enforceability and feasibility. We did. I can't look into the Minister's head, but I think it's a wise move of him to sleep on this one more night." No-nonsense, just stay at the heart of the First Chamber. Or as they say in Groningen: "It could be less." Good luck, Greetje! Wouter van Zandbrink, last but not least. What I said at the beginning with Mr Earthema also applies to you: you will be used to being the last in a list. Since February 2018, you have been a member of the Upper House. However, it was not the first time: from 2014 to 2015, you were also First Member of Parliament for the Labour Party. Over the past period, your health has affected you, so you could not be present a number of times. I understand you've planned most of the treatments around the Chamberwork. That's what characterizes your devotion. You gave your maiden speech on 15 December 2014, about the Responsible Growth Act for Dairy Farming, a subject that is very close to your heart, as you grew up in your parents' dairy farming. You argued that the hierarchical direction of the government has partly made way for management by citizens and businesses themselves and that regulation should be in line with this. Your political career began in 2006, when you were appointed a member of the Deputy States in Zeeland. In this position you were in charge of the coastal and rural area portfolio. A year later, you were appointed a member of the Provincial States of Zeeland in Zeeland. In this capacity, you openly opposed the plan to transfer the financing of the dam reinforcements from the Empire to the waterboards, because this would be unfair to the inhabitants of the coastal areas. You said: "If the Netherlands is not protected by dikes, the other investments are pointless." As chairman of the Delta Coalition, of course, a partnership between Zeeland, South Holland and North Brabant, you will continue to work for an ecologically healthy and resilient delta. I wish you every success in that. Ladies and gentlemen, this brings me to the end of the speech by my fellow Members to whom membership of the Chamber will end at 24:00 on 10 June. If you think that you have now come to the end of your membership, that is not correct. That happens on June 10th, at night at 24:00. If there are scary things happening in the country or in the world and if we need you, we can call you. That goes for me, too. It has been a great honour and a great pleasure to be able to work with all of you, but also, of course, with the Members who remain. I have greatly appreciated it and, above all, I have greatly appreciated the trust you have placed in me. I wish you all the best. Because you know I'm a rather singing type, I say Vera Lynn's words: we'll meet again. I'm not gonna sing it; calm down, don't panic! We'll meet again; we meet in the CIS, the Society of Old Senators. Hi!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u15	Now I gotta take a look, do I have to suspend now? No, we're moving on. This is a little complicated, but that's okay. I inform the Chamber that His Majesty has pleased the King, on the basis of the curricula vitae just quoted, to award a royal award to a number of members who comply with the regulations for decorations. I have the honour of handing those awards over to the people concerned. I therefore ask the following Members to stand up in the middle of the Chamber: Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr Engels, Mr Kuiper, don't be so slow, boys, come on! Mrs Strik and Mrs De Vries-Leggedoor. I would point out to the Members and the rest of the House that there will be ample opportunity in the Knight's Room to congratulate the decorated ones on their award shortly after the end of the sitting, starting at around 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u16	I now give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u17	Madam President. You have now waved out more than 40 esteemed colleagues who are going to leave this Chamber, and I would like to say again that our President is also pleased to hang on to her willows and to leave us, who are left behind and newcomers, orphaned. If you can do all that, I'll ask the Prime Minister. After all, he is about everything and always remains himself, at least I had understood that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u18	Unfortunately, this President is not staying. This President, against whom no one of us dared to stand up in the last election, knowing that it would be a hopeless matter. This "grande lady of the Senate," I quote the newspaper of awake Netherlands. Again in the same newspaper: "left or right, they all walk away with the cheerful chairman." This President, who, as far as this Chamber is concerned, would have been widely supported if she had wanted to continue the Presidency for a little longer. And yet this President, who has become the President of all of us, is going to leave. That doesn't feel good. But if there is any truth in law that you must leave at your peak, then this is the best time. When she is physically gone, her painted portrait hangs proudly in our gallery of presidents, so that her good spirit will always be around. And when we think slightly depressed again what it all matters what we do here, she will say, "I quote aside: "Policy is fun, it often seems to me with difficult here and difficult there, but I want to show that it can also be very fun, and honorable, to contribute a bit, even if it's just a little bit." Indeed, it is a very fine task and an honorable privilege to be able to contribute to the construction and development of the democratic rule of law, as we are going to anchor it in our Constitution, after the decision of this Chamber. You already reminded me of that. The rule of law that must be cherished and defended, to quote your words in the 2015 parliamentary yearbook. These wise words from the same yearbook also deserve attention: "I am allergic to the terror of the majority, with half plus one always being able to express its opinion; decisions must be made on the basis of good arguments, not powerplay." So, Madam President, you are leaving, but your good spirit remains with us. Along with all the other spirits who house in this part of the Binnenhof, among others those of Johan de Witt, who built this magnificent chamber of true freedom for us, and that of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, whose four hundredth anniversary we have just commemorated and whose remains we may find at the upcoming renovation of the Binnenhof and can rest in a suitable place. The Prime Minister has already committed himself to it: a country must not ignore its history. About your history, then. You're from 1946, although in an interview in 2014 you said to feel 35 at most, which makes you now less than 40. Your father made sure you didn't go to high school for girls, although many HBS guys like me found that just heaven on earth, which was completely unattainable to us. You were allowed to go to the gymnasium, the Huygens Lyceum in Voorburg. That's where you thought you wanted to be an archaeologist and so you went to law school. It could be, Bredero would say. Your graduation thesis didn't raise suspicion: the doctor's liability. But when you got into the wedding boat with Arnoud a year later, a lot of people thought: what a sharked girl, that Ankie. For the outsiders, Arnoud was and is a doctor. The fact that both are still together with two daughters, two sons-in-law and five grandchildren shows that Ankie has thoroughly examined the credentials of her Arnoud, has properly established the liability and has benefited from it with mutual benefit. Besides, you've always been a self-conscious woman who's done it on her own. As you once said in an interview, "There's never been a guy who said, "You're doing so well, we're gonna come up with a nice job for you. Never. I had to reach it all with my bare hands." Maybe that's why you got so excited when President Xi Jinping came to visit you and quoted an old Chinese saying that women make up half the universe. The strong half, you'd say, because you like to talk about the strong sex when it comes to women. And so it is. Where were we? Born, educated, married and of course worked at the University of Leiden. First as a scientific assistant, then as a university lecturer and above all the driving force behind Moot Court, where you learned to argue and argue with future lawyers. It's made you a living monument. And then politics. On your 23rd member of the VVD, just like your parents. You never thought about another party; it's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u19	Then at the age of 40 council member for the VVD in Bloemendaal and in October 2001 member of the First Chamber of the States General for the VVD. Well, there's an entrance, boy. I read your maiden speech again, about the revision of trial law in civil matters. An argument that sounds like a clock and looks like a display of knowledge and that immediately made it clear that no one would play with this new MP. I'm glad you made it clear in your maiden speech that this lady didn't like to talk and fathom. You denounced the introduction of the term "court of Appeals"; "as if not every judge makes provisions," you said to Minister Korthals. You said you weren't happy about using flags that don't cover loads, which you've been constantly emphasising over the years. Just act like you're crazy enough, you'd have been written all over you by then. I have no speaking time limit, this time, so I can take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u20	What strikes me is that I've spoken to 44 people and I haven't had a drink and it's already going on with you after two pages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u21	I simply acknowledge who the master is and who the servant is, Mr. Chairman. As a Member of Parliament, you were part of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and you regularly went to the COSAC. That is not a rugged Russian, but simply the meeting of European Affairs Committees of the European Union that you were a member of, I say to reassure Arnoud. You did a lot of debates and even filed two motions. Yeah, two, about the average of the House of Representatives, but there a day. Here we attach more to quality than to quantity, we say finely. And you did something that didn't work out in 30 years before. You got all 75 members, from right to left, to jointly vote against a bill passed by the House of Representatives, which was about the implementation of an EU directive on financial collateral agreements. So that can also happen, I say to our Prime Minister: 75 votes against. You were a valued member of the Justice Commission and later became chairman of it, although to your reluctance, as you have already shown, at that time you were called "Security and Justice" and now you are called "Justice and Security." In that position, you made an impression as an expert, smooth but equally determined chairman, something that was later an argument for many of us to put the cross for your name in 2013 when you applied for the Presidency of our Chamber. "Ankie Broekers is good, she knows how to do it, she's flexible when it's possible and decisive if it's necessary," that was and is still being said about you, inside and outside this Chamber. You've been our President for six years and we owe you a lot of thanks for that, dear Ankie. You've worked hard. Being President of the Chamber is certainly not a side job. You operated in a Chamber where the government had no majority, or only a marginal. And in a Chamber that had its own problems, for which a solution had to be found, such as a new code of conduct integrity. You had to get involved in what's been the biggest renovation of the Binnenhof since time immemorial. You received a selection of foreign visitors and you also regularly crossed the border to explain about our democracy and the place of this special and rather complicated Chamber in it. You were there on happy days, but just as sad moments, as when our colleague Willem Witteveen and his wife and daughter became the utterly guiltless victim of the madness called war. You went to the King's coffee and told him that's secret, but I can say it here, because we are among ourselves that you were afraid that on your first Prince's Day you would call out "Live the Queen," as you had only been dealing with queens until then, to which our King replied: "I too, ma'am, I too."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u22	Above all, you have treated us all equally as chairman in equal situations. No one's favored or disadvantaged by you. Classy. A liberal as Our Lord meant them, they say. You also appreciated it when MPs showed generosity. You would like to refer to that time when our colleague Gerrit Holdijk was unable to vote on a controversial bill, the Social Support Act, and our colleague Tof Thissen therefore decided not to vote for it, however much that could have an impact on whether or not to adopt the bill. As chairman, you never interfered with the content of our debates, no matter how difficult that may have been. I have been working on Beob behind the physical of our President during debates; you can complete a book on that. A few times you thought you should say something, like when, after a heated debate, we adopted here a controversial proposal on the future-proofing of the public media service, a proposal whose half could never enter into force by means of this Chamber and by promises made by the Minister. You then expressed your concern about this course of events, quote: "having regard to the constitutional position of this Chamber." You obviously thought it was a case of once but never again. You ensured order and progress in this Chamber and also discipline behind the government table. Don't fiddle with mobile phones or chat with each other, while a MP here is trying his best, from this place. An admonishing look could do wonders. But also full of understanding as a ruler asked for a short break in order to soothe a spinning bladder. That's what happens. Eventually, ministers are like people. Here I thought there would be a laugh, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u23	You were less understanding if you thought there was a lot of talk but little said from behind that table. Then you wanted to explain how it worked here and that we didn't have all day. But everyone who treated this Chamber with respect was honorably helped by you in and through the debate. The ministers and secretaries of state are gonna miss you, too, aren't they, Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u24	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u25	Madam Chairman, dear Ankie. You have increased the prestige and fame of this part of the States-General by your performance, I think I can say. When you arrived, Ferry Mingelen sighed: "Who is Ankie?" Well, Ferry, boy, now you know, with all your colleagues, that's Ankie. And who is Ferry anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u26	Oh yes, besides all the work you have hobbies: politics, history, cooking, skiing, reading and singing. As a result of that last hobby, I would love it if at the end of this meeting, your last meeting, we could get out of the room singing softly, under your command.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u27	Chain, chain, chain...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u28	It's not supposed to, but it sounds like it. I'm rounding up. Madam Chairman, dear Ankie. I hope and I think I'll speak on behalf of all of you if I'd sing now "we've never had such a good one" you promised you'd sing along. But I'm not gonna do that, because it's not a Brabant carnival here. Can I thank you very sincerely for what you have done for us, for this Chamber, and, as you say, for what you have done for Dutch parliamentary democracy? That wasn't nothing and it didn't go unseen. As a new nestor, may I invite all members to thank you, but in your words: not only after I have done so first? You were one hell of a President, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u29	May I ask Members to be silent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u30	I'm not supposed to say anything now, because we have to move on. But I'd like to say to all of you, but most of all to Tiny, you've done me too much credit, but I loved what you've done. Thank you. I should now give the floor to the Vice-President, but I give the floor to the Prime Minister. He has to leave at 4:30 p.m. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it is a great honour to be present at this special meeting. There have been wonderful words spoken by the chairman himself and by Tiny Kox. Can I say in particular that I have great admiration for the herculean achievement you have just achieved by addressing 44 people in such a personal way? Big, big class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u32	It has been said a lot: there is a change of guard today. 44 senators will not return, including the chairman. That's a hell of a bleed. More than 300 years of First Chamber experience is now leaving this building. Of the ten longest-sitting members, only one remains. That's not nothing. It is melancholic that so many old-timers leave the Senate, including for the government. The fact that they could even build such a long service record in this house also says something about the Upper House. Expertise, institutional memory and experience are very important here. You can tell by everything. As an expert in experience, I can say that debates here, which I have been allowed to conduct as Secretary of State and Prime Minister, are being conducted on the content, with mutual respect and a sense of style, even over the last four years. The fact that the doyen of the First Chamber from the Socialist Party address a VVD senator in this way says a lot. I loved it, too. The First Chamber fulfils its unique role in our political system as a chambre de réflexion. That is what the First Chamber is doing, with little political hyperventilation, with a little distance from the delusions of the day and also with a view to the wider perspective, although it should not be too often that legislative proposals should be aligned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u33	Madam President. I find it admirable that, under the increasing pressure of politicisation and publicity, your Chamber has managed to retain its specific character and its independent role. That forces respect, inside and outside the Binnenhof. I would therefore like to express my deep appreciation here for the members of the First Chamber, for those who leave and those who stay. I do the same on behalf of my colleagues in the cabinet. We have had special years, with a minority or indeed a minority as Tiny Kox just said, a minimum majority for the cabinet in the First Chamber. That means we had to back up our plans. Of course, you always have to, but if you can't count on anything, you have to do it. In debates, you really had to see if it was going to work, sometimes at the sharpest of cuts and always on the basis of content. Also in the new composition of the First Chamber, starting next Tuesday, the cabinet has no majority, which also applied to the previous cabinet, and so we will have to take everything out of the closet again to find support for our plans here. I happen to know that you, Madam President, are actually fine with that. You consider it very important and welcome the further improvement in the quality of the parliamentary process. This is because a government here really has to do its best to bring about majorities. There are no obvious reasons. I therefore suspect that you can appreciate the fact that the voter has facilitated it again. There is a difference of opinion here and there in the coalition. It is up to your successor to manage this exciting process, as you have done in recent years: as a referee in the debate, objective and unflinching, and with a flexibility that allowed an optimal exchange of arguments. The role of chairman was from the beginning you sat as cast, blessed if you are with a natural authority that even 74 autonomous, stubborn senators accept without mortar. Ferry Mingelen has just been quoted. In 2013, he exclaimed in despair: "Ankie? Who's Ankie?" Within the shortest time, your authority stretched far beyond the walls of this room and de Volkskrant even called you the President of the Netherlands. That shows once again that you cannot play the role of President; that is what you are. Why you are such a self-evident chairman, you can try to find many explanations for that. I'm gonna spend the next half hour on that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That may be a bit unorthodox, but including the "hatsekidea" is essentially why you are so appreciated. You are competent, autonomous and authentic and also warm in personal contact. I therefore speak on behalf of everyone here as I say, following Tiny Kox: Madam President, thank you very much for the many years as a senator and for your very competent presidency since 2013. As a figurehead of the First Chamber, you have committed yourself to the proper functioning of the Senate in every way possible. We are all very grateful for that. Your work has not gone unnoticed; not among colleagues, not in the media, but not at palaces. It is therefore an honor to inform you that His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you a knight in the Order of Orange-Nassau. I'd like to ask you to step forward so I can pin down the decorations. It's always hard on a dress, by the way, but I'm gonna try. I do not really know if that is part of the Senate, but in this case I find a loud applause very justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister. It sounds very unkind, but you're excused now. I think you're on hot coal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u35	I have to leave at 4:30 p.m., so I'm gonna keep listening to the next speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u36	Okay, that's beautiful. I now give the floor to the first Vice-President of the First Chamber, Mr Flierman. He will address us on behalf of the outgoing Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u37	Thank you. Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour for me to speak here today on behalf of the outgoing members of the First Chamber. If I see correctly, today I am the last person to speak in terms of substance and thus also the last person to address you in this parliamentary term. I appreciate that. I'll be brief. I do so, Madam President, because your servants have urged me to do so, but also in the knowledge that I am the last person standing between all the farewells and the reception. One is thirsty, wants to speak with loved ones and personal friends and receive congratulations and such. You're right. So short. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox and the Prime Minister have already done so, but let me begin by thanking you, on behalf of all the outgoing senators, for your kind and personal words. With this way of saying goodbye, we in this Chamber underline the highly valued collegiality and cooperation across the borders of the parties. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and through him the members of this and the previous cabinet with which we have worked. This cooperation was intensive and constructive, although not every minister, to this day, will always have been happy with the outcome of the debates in this house. Fortunately, the differences in content, as far as I can see, have not damaged personal relations. And that's how it should go in politics. Madam President. On behalf of all the distinguished Members, I would like to express special thanks today to His Majesty the King. I would ask you to convey that thanks. I always consider the awards that have been awarded today to be a token of recognition for the work that someone is doing and that someone has done here in the Senate these days, awarded by the King on behalf of all Dutch society. I congratulate all of you on this award. Madam President. Today 44 senators say goodbye, including yourself. The senator with the least service, which we count here not in days but in years, perhaps as a symbol of the shortness of political life, is Mrs Gout-Van Sinderen, who is already leaving the Chamber after 84 days. You have built up most of your time of service, chairman, with currently 6.454 days, at a distance followed by the also departing Hans Engels with 5,383 days. The new senior is Tiny Kox, with 5,838 days if I'm right, and if he lasts the next period, he'll come in about 7,300 days. But that's far from the record in this house. For those of you who are interested: that record is in the name of Jhr. Mr. Frans van Eysinga, who was from 1850 to 1894, so about 44 years old, was a member of the Chamber for over 16,000 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u38	Mr. Chairman. So, Mr Kox, if you want to improve the record, you need to hang in there. There are 14 ladies and 30 gentlemen leaving, and 14 ladies and 30 gentlemen are coming back, so the diversity, at least as far as men and women are concerned, remains unchanged, 27 ladies and 48 gentlemen, and there is still room for improvement. This is also true in other respects, for example when it comes to MPs with a non-Dutch background. Then there is the diversity in this house, and I am not looking at Mr Some of the outgoing members do so of their own choice, because they think it has been good, or because it fits the rules within their own party. Others leave sooner than they would have liked, because the electorate or its own party has decided so. Already according to circumstances, feelings of pride, satisfaction, perhaps a bit of relief, but sometimes also disappointment will be present, and perhaps a bit of concern too. Many people tend to think that it does not get better with one's own departure, but that is, of course, nonsense. The world is going crazy and the First Chamber will also take up its task in new composition. What unites us is perhaps a feeling of melancholy and gratitude. There remains, I hope, a beautiful memory that we may cherish. Each of us has been able to contribute from our own perspective to the governance of our country. There is certainly still room for improvement, but let us also remember that there is a lot, a lot of good going on in this country and that the Netherlands is still a very happy country that we have to cherish. We can all be proud to have been able to contribute to the preservation and development of our country's quality in recent years. It's already been memorized. In this period, 1,132 laws were passed. Seven were rejected and ten were withdrawn, which means that 1,115 or more than 98%, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, so there is no reason for concern, I would think of the laws put forward to us being passed in this house. In addition, we have worked intensively with ourselves and our working methods over the last four years. There was a Temporary Committee working method, a working group looking in particular at the feasibility test of legislative proposals, there was a Committee on Integrity and the State Committee on Remkes, which was set up on the initiative of this Chamber. We can at least conclude from that that the position and working methods of the First Chamber raises discussions and questions. A discussion that goes from the independence and position of the individual members to the position and working methods of the institute in a formal and practical sense. If I see correctly, there has been much more talk of this recently than in previous years. And what are we supposed to derive from that? First of all, the First Chamber matters. The increased, critical interest also means, in my opinion, that the bar is being raised again. Critical questions can only be answered with authority from an institution that does more than excellent work, that for which it has been established, namely cooperating in legislation. It's about trust in the institute and in our work. In his last year's review of our state- and political system, entitled Grote kunnen, kleinen, Herman Tjeenk Willink points out the importance that politicians should maintain the confidence of the electorate. He's not alone. Last week I also read in the book De wet als kunstwerk, by our former colleague Willem Witteveen, who died so tragically with his wife and daughter in July 2014 when he shot down flight MH17. Witteveen, who in his book describes the ten commandments for the legislator from a philosophical point of view, also notes "... that communication between legislator and citizens is a major problem in its own democratic rule of law." Further on, he says: "Good laws are central to the prevailing interpretation of the ideal of a democratic rule of law." This brings us back to his ten commandments and to our core task of cooperating in good legislation. As long as the Chamber properly fulfils that core task, it can, in my opinion, handle any discussion about its position. I also refer to the report by the Remkes State Commission, which, in recognition and appreciation of the legislative task of the Upper Chamber, comes of this task with proposals for changes, in its view strengthening. At the end of this thank you speech, on behalf of all of us, I would also like to pay tribute to the Registrar and all the staff of the Chamber's administration and all those who are otherwise active there, from clerk to messenger, catering staff, communication, protocol, substantive support, the Deputy Registrar and his three closest colleagues. They have never been called upon in vain and the reactions have always been smooth, adequate and highly professional. Salute, homage, homage!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u39	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to congratulate all my fellow Members who will be joining us next week and wish all the new senators every success in their work. As I said, the work of the First Chamber is in the spotlight. I wish that they can and will concentrate on the classic tasks of the First Chamber, the test of legality, enforcement and feasibility. On the previous farewell, in 2015, Senator Holdijk quoted the Roman historian Livius. In conclusion, I choose a slightly lighter quote. From my time at the municipality of Arnhem I have left a booklet with quotes of the always unorthodox, opposite and creative Loesje. She wrote, twenty years before Tjeenk Willink, even though: trust must be won, not the elections! I would like to ask the new Chamber, on behalf of all the outgoing Members, to turn to that idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u40	Thank you very much, Anne Flierman. I shall now give the floor to the Registrar for a brief domestic announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u41	Madam President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. I have another speech, but I would like to take this opportunity first of all to address you on behalf of the Registry. We have also been delighted to serve you in recent years, I am very brief, but I have learned the profession very well in recent months, especially among this President. Thank you very much for that. I would like to thank everyone in this Chamber on behalf of the Registry for their very pleasant cooperation over the last few months and for a large number of years. It's very special to be standing here, but it's good that I don't stand here often, because then there would be something wrong. I have a number of announcements that are of interest to you. For all outgoing members, the Chamber offers a charcoal print as a reminder. Here you can choose from an image of the Chamber from the Binnenhofzijde or from the Hofvijverzijde. Downstairs in the entrance hall there is an example of both images. After the reception in the Knight's Room you can take a copy of your choice from the entrance hall of the Upper Chamber. You are all cordially invited to come to the Hall after the end of this sitting for the presentation of another decoration by Mrs Marijke Vos. Here you will also find your guest who is now sitting in the stands. You can then go to the Knight's Room with your guest under instructions from the staff of the Room. You do not have to stand in line by using the entrance Binnenhof 14A in the right tower of the Knight's Room. In memory of the past Chamber period, a photo book has also been made. For all members of the current Room there is a copy available, also to pick up in the entrance hall after reception. I am now offering the first copy to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-eerstekamer-12.u42	Members of Parliament, colleagues, we have come to the end of this sitting. Once again, I would like to thank everyone very much for what you have all meant for the Chamber and, frankly, for parliamentary democracy in the Netherlands. All outgoing members are awarded flowers immediately after the meeting is closed, so 44 booklets. I would then like to invite all Members to take a group photo in this room. Once that's done, I'd like to ask the College of Seniors to stay for the picture of the College of Seniors. In this room, too. That seems like a good idea in this room, doesn't it? Then it's my great honour to do it after six years, and I've done it with great pleasure, because I just like it, so I've really enjoyed closing the sitting. I'm closing the meeting.
