ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen, on behalf of D66, for his question to the Minister for Justice and Security on the significant increase in the number of leaks and corruption cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Corruption has a devastating effect on a society. It affects the essence of a rule of law: people's confidence in the integrity of government. The Netherlands usually has a good reputation. We are known as a country with little corruption. We score well on the well-known rankings. However, reports are increasingly emerging that we are not immune to corruption in the Netherlands either; from administrators and civil servants who hand out benefits to police and customs personnel who leak information or cooperate with criminals. According to the annual report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, last year the National Criminal Court investigated 33 incidents of official corruption and 32 breaches of confidentiality. In 2017, that was a third less. D66 believes that this is a worrying development. I therefore have a number of questions for the Minister of Justice. First of all, how does the Minister explain this increase? Is there a coincidence, or is there a negative trend, as far as he is concerned? And what is the Minister of Justice doing to prevent corruption, both in the preventive and repressive sense? Does the active integrity policy pursued by the Public Prosecutor and the police actually function well when we look at these figures? My follow-up question is: does the Netherlands comply with international agreements and standards in the fight against corruption and, if not, what will the Minister do about it? And, Mr President, finally, in this first block, what actually happened to the issues mentioned in the annual report? Is the Minister prepared to send an open letter to the Chamber in future to deal with these investigations? I would like to ask this in the context of the maximum transparency we are all striving for in the Department of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I've already congratulated you, so I'm not gonna do that this time. Mr. Chairman. Let me just drop the door: the increased number of criminal investigations is mainly a sign that police and prosecutors are on top of it and that corruption and leaks are being dealt with more visibly. How do I explain that? A recent study by the WODC has shown that there is no evidence that there has been a significant increase in the number of integrity violations in recent years. However, it appears that the caliber, the size of the integrity violations, has become heavier. Combating corruption is an important aspect in reducing undermining crime. As you know, this is about to become my middle name; so we are really committed to that. In reply to your question, I can say that there is indeed an active toolbox. I would just like to mention a few things that are also the subject of extra money. There is, among other things, an analysis tool that is very useful for filtering from certain situations that there may be corruption. Integrity has also been added to the recruitment, selection and screening of new employees. And finally, there is also an intensification budget for developments at the Rijksrecherche. Mr. Chairman. We comply with international obligations. The Netherlands has committed itself to three international conventions, those of the United Nations, OECD and GRECO. GRECO evaluated the approach in the Netherlands in 2018, and the Netherlands came out well. I sent you a letter on this subject on 22 February last. The UN and OECD will carry out evaluations this year, in 2019. If you wish, I can inform your Chamber about that in the second block. Finally, Mr President, the request for a report on the conduct of corruption investigations. This cannot be done on an individual level, because it is very unusual for me as a minister to tell you what comes out of business. I am prepared to inform you regularly about the nature and extent of the corruption. As I have already said, I will do so this year at least as a result of the evaluations that are still being carried out by the UN and the OECD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. He's giving some kind of reassuring answer. He's actually saying it's because the police and the state's attorney's office got a better look. Well, that'd be great news, but can he indicate how he's going to split up that rather big increase? What part of it is because we've gotten a better look? More importantly, what does the fact that we have started to look more closely and then see more incidents about the pre-screening? Because that seems to indicate that people are squeaking through it in advance in screening, for example when requesting a vog, so to speak, which we then have to track afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions I asked earlier with Mrs Den Boer. This showed that there are 127 FTE and that the Rijksrecherche is quite old in terms of age structure. Are the 127 fte really enough to take on all these extra things? What is the Minister doing to ensure that the National Criminal Court can continue to function in the future? Looks like a lot of people are gonna start pouring out in the short term. Finally, in this block, the next question. The cabinet pays extra money, partly at the request of CDA and D66, to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Are there any extra resources in that for the National CID?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I find it very difficult to technically separate the WODC research for you here. As has been said, that is the investigation from which I have just drawn my theories. We are committed to doing the screening better and sharper. There is no significant increase, but we are doing this simply because we have means in modern times to make screening even more stringent. I can answer the question about the intensification of the National Criminal Court in the affirmative. Whether and to what extent the extra funds for the Public Prosecutor's Office are also used for this, I find a decision that is primarily for the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, given my contacts with the Public Prosecutor's Office, I assume that this issue will certainly be looked at as well. Finally, I would like to say something very quickly about the lead time. There is no estimate of the average lead time. Each case is unique and has its own dynamics and complexity, so we cannot stick to general rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you for the Minister's answers. I will continue to follow this issue, because I believe that the trust of the people in an honest government is crucial to the rule of law. I would urge the Minister once again to send that overview of how these matters are going to end to the Chamber. Of course, this does not have to be done on an individual level, but I think it is just interesting for the Chamber to know how things are going after the Reichscherche has taken up a case. What's the state's attorney's office doing with it? How are courts handling it? Then we also know if there are any further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	D66 has previously asked questions about the issue of police integrity. The police themselves have made this a top priority and also has a very active integrity policy. That was just mentioned by my colleague, Mr Grothuizen. The annual report of the Rijksrecherche shows no improvement and that is very worrying. What does that say about culture in the police and the ability to change culture in the police, I ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. I find the concept of improvement very difficult here. In the beginning, I indicated that, for example, the fact that there are more things now, is precisely because of this strengthened approach. If you start knocking harder on the rug, there's more dust coming out, so at least domestic science learns. I agree with Mr Grothuizen that we should continue to follow it very critically, precisely because we are committed to improving a number of things, such as screening instruments. I hope to return to your Chamber very soon to what the UN and OECD evaluations will bring, because I think that will give us more guidance. Once again, I am confident that they will take it intensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs Den Boer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	Following on, I would ask if the Minister could inform us annually about the results of the police integrity policy. In this way, the Minister himself can show that he takes it very, very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. I think that's already happening, even half-yearly. That's not on an individual case level. I just said something about that. I admit that I will at least check it again. To the extent that my assessment that this has actually been happening for years is not 100% correct, we will certainly adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. I notice that the Minister thinks he is on the right track. The increase in the number of cases of corruption is mainly due to the fact that we have all started to look more closely, and that is why we are more likely to run into problems. When it comes to the cause of this corruption, organised crime, the Minister also believes that there are sufficient laws and that a great deal of money is being allocated to it. But as far as the cause of these corruption cases is concerned, this huge organised crime has, of course, escalated, because all crime is about money. The SP has been saying for a long time that the fight against crime must also be much more about money. When does the Minister come up with his approach in such a way that we can finally take away a substantial part of this estimated EUR 18 billion of criminal money per year, which is now just a slap, a few hundred millions? When does the Minister come up with a really firm approach to crime money in Dutch society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. I have already announced in your Chamber that Mr Hoekstra and I will come forward with a letter on combating money laundering. In this context, it will also be further written. Hopefully the House will soon be discussed with the House on the so-called take-away strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you.
