ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Dick Dolman, former President of the Second Chamber of the States General. He died on 23 January at the age of 83. I would like to welcome his family: his wife Elletje, his daughter Belinda, his son Menno and his grandchildren Sophie and Bob. I would also like to welcome the former Presidents of the House of Representatives: Mr Wim Deetman, Mr Piet Bukman, Jeltje van Nieuwenhoven, Frans Weisglas and Gerdi Verbeet. And a warm welcome for our former Griffin Willem Hendrik de Beaufort and his wife. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister in trade union K. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand, if possible. "The Netherlands has a sweet parliament and occasionally a few pappenheimers need to be watched." It's a quote from Dick Dolman. It's up to him. We commemorate Dick Dolman as the man who was the face and keeper of our parliamentary democracy for ten years, from 17 July 1979 to September 1989. A period that he himself described as a "daily party" and the most beautiful job he had ever had. In 2015 he was named the best Vice President after World War II by daily Trouw. He himself said about this in the beautiful book Boven de Parten, van Gerry van der List, which consists of interviews with Vice-Presidents of the House: "I cannot contradict the fact that I am known as one of the best Presidents of the Chamber." In which his facial expression could not be seen how ironic there was in that pronunciation. As MP for the PvdA, Dolman was spokesperson for financial affairs and public health for many years. In that capacity, he was the first to plead for general public insurance in that field. He has also voted differently as a member of the PvdA Chamber. As a member of parliament, he was not strange either. In 1979 he succeeded Anne Vondeling as President of the House of Representatives. He was 44 years old at the time. At his arrival there was still the necessary doubt because of his sharp tongue and his humor, which one did not always understand. He knew how to take that doubt away very quickly. In 1981 he was re-elected for the first time, while the PvdA did not come out of the election as the largest party. He gained appreciation for his way of presiding, although his partymates had to get used to this. "He keeps things very short," sighed some PvdA roommates. As President of the Chamber, Dick Dolman put an end to the long nightly debates in his eyes and decided to conclude those meetings at 11 p.m., not a minute later. He hammered MP Flip Buurmeijer in the middle of a sentence. The next day he was allowed to finish his sentence. Dick Dolman stood above the parties and acted without respect for the individual. But that didn't stop him from having a strong opinion on many things and expressing them. In his own words: "I cannot be expected to be a stamp pillow, someone who has no opinion at all." And he also had them, for example, about the drinking and smoking behaviour of the MPs. It gave him the title "Non-Smoker 1985." He also came up with the idea of introducing a threshold at three seats. When he visited the Hungarian Parliament in 1983, he said: 'We have twelve political groups in Parliament, and that is a bit much. You only have one, couldn't we meet somewhere halfway?" Not knowing that 35 years later, the Chamber consists of 13 political groups. Dick Dolman was aware of the function he could perform towards the audience. For example, he sat on the couch with Mies Bouwman, moved to Sonja on Monday, participated in Starslag and in 1982 he even gave an interview for the first edition of the Playboy. He felt it was important to use every opportunity to tell what a parliament is doing and what a parliament is meant for. Last Tuesday the annual Towers Chess Simultan was played in the State Passage. This year without Dick Dolman. Until a few years ago, he was a regular participant in this competition. He loved chess. There was always a chess game going on in his study. For him they were pleasant moments of relaxation and exercise of the mind. He knew it belonged to the etiquette not to continue playing in a clearly lost theorem. But he postponed the moment of giving up, even in the simultaneous fight with a grandmaster, for as long as possible. His colleagues and friends knew that it was better not to have a conversation with him in the following hours. The last time I met Dick Dolman was here in the Chamber. Every year I invite the former Chamber Chairmen to catch up, a little bit about you too. Dolman was proud of Parliament and of the office of President of the Chamber, he told me. He considered politics as a place where people from different backgrounds and different political views meet and are bound by old written and unwritten rules. And he saw it as his job to remind members of it. We commemorate Dick Dolman with great respect and deep gratitude for everything he has done and meant for us and our Parliament. I wish his wife and children and all other relatives much strength in bearing this loss. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. Dick Dolman was the President of the Chamber of my youth. That goes for a lot of people in the Netherlands, because he was one of the political figureheads in the 1980s, the decade in which I and so many, including in this Chamber, became politically aware. It was politically a different time. We had debates about cruise missiles, about cutting civil servants' salaries. He led those debates with a steady hand for ten years. I took up the Acts on the 1980 Housing Programme with Marcel van Dam. The chairman against Van Dam: "I cannot allow the word 'lie'. At best you can say that what is in your opinion is at odds with the truth." Mr Van Dam of the Labour Party: 'Let me put it this way: I have rarely seen the opposite of the truth as impetuous'. The president said: "I hope that the difference is clear. A lie is a conscious act and the opposite of truth is your judgment. So that's quite another thing." Beautiful. Yeah, Geert, another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	President Dolman exuded an enormous authority, while he was not yet a political veteran when he took over the sledgehammer. Or as the Algemeen Dagblad described it at the time: richly young for the fulfillment of a job that should be seen as the crowning of a long-term political career. But he certainly didn't betray the confidence of the Chamber. Already in 1980, after a year of presidency, NRC Handelsblad described him as the undisputed leader of Dutch democracy. And in the following years, he continued to become an authoritative and face-defining President of the Chamber, widely counted as one of the icons after the war. What makes someone a good President of the Chamber is, of course, difficult to describe. And it is certainly not for me to judge, not even in retrospective. Whether it was a member of the Chamber or a minister, he kept them short, as you said, Mr President, literally and figuratively. But he also definitely left room for debate. He left room for humour, or as he himself called it: a little gibbet. With that style, business but not colorless, Dolman left his mark on the eighties. Afterwards, he was able to put his role into perspective. He did indeed give an interview to Gerry van der List for that book on Presidents of the Chamber. In it he said hypothermia: "It is not physically a heavy job. You don't have to make tough decisions and after three days you can rest again." That relativizing side didn't mean he underestimated the weight of the job. For that he was also too driven and too motivated to do the job well. According to Dolman, the Chamber Presidency was the highest democratic office and the President is the one representing the Dutch people squared. In that role, of course, he flourished. That's why he was disappointed when he missed the fourth re-election in 1989. But he also quickly reconciled with that. He easily distanced himself from the plush and went to work behind the scenes at the Council of State. He took a deep look at the content, particularly in the field of spatial planning. "I had a great time there," he later said, "and I got to know the Netherlands much better." In all the functions that Dick Dolman has performed in his long and rich career, he operated straight forward, with a healthy sobriety and a unique sense of humor. As an official, a member of the House of Representatives, as President of the Chamber and a member of the Council of State, he has made a major contribution to the democratic system throughout his life. We're grateful to him for that. Today we commemorate him with great respect. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish his family and all his other relatives much strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
