ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA for his questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment on the recovery of pension funds by ABP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. More than 700 people received a letter on the ABP's mat, announcing that they were recovering part of the pensions for the past three, four, sometimes five years. This means that money that was paid out in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 has been sent Uniform Pension Reviews, which in all these years have been sent an overview that you are entitled to, will be retrieved in one go by the ABP. These people didn't get a calculation of what happened. They just got a letter: we're going to recover. Oh no, they didn't even get a letter "we're going to recover," it was already withheld from the next benefit. The result was that people first saw their pension benefits fall by 40% because they apparently did not have the right to do so, which they themselves did not know, and then from the rest was also recovered once again, so that they actually no longer have a pension for a few years. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs what happened here. How is it that you can't derive legal certainty from a pension that has been paid? Two. What do you have as a pension participant on a Uniform Pension Statement or an annual statement of your pension fund if it turns out that pension fund can say years later: you were not entitled to it, here we get it back? Three. If there is a dispute between a pension fund and a participant, can the participant at least refuse recovery before that dispute is resolved? Four. Will the Minister consult both the ABP and the Pension Federation to ensure that there is a solution that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for the questions that have been put and, as far as I am concerned, justified. Let's start with the facts as far as we know. What exactly happened here? For the implementation of an ABP scheme supplementing an incomplete AOW partner bonus, the APG, as implementing the ABP scheme, receives data from the Social Insurance Bank on the basis of a contract. The ABP shall supplement the AOW partner bonus if no full AOW partner bonus has been granted. The ABP is the only pension fund in the Netherlands. So this does not apply to other pension funds. It only applies to the ABP. In the period from December 2013 to May 2015, an error was made in the data delivery of the SVB to the APG. As a result, 700 customers have received too many and around 300 customers too little partner bonus from the ABP. In the letter of 20 December from the Secretary of State and myself on the state of execution, I informed the Chamber on this matter. In particular, it concerned the SVB delivery to the ABP and the APG. As a result of the broadcast, the ABP posted a message on its website stating that it wanted to be helpful in making agreements on the refund. The ABP has sent a personal letter to all concerned and has also apologized. I think that's a good thing. Then there are the specific questions put by Mr Omtzigt. The ABP states in its report that the overpaid pension has been at the expense of the pension assets of all ABP participants in the period 2013 to 2015. For reasons of balance to all participants, the ABP recovers what is overpaid in benefits. And people who haven't been given enough are paid extra. Mr Omtzigt asked: what is the use of the UPO, then what is legal certainty? That is a well-known question from Mr Omtzigt. We also discussed this in the debate on the implementation of IORP II. I think it is an understandable question and a fair question. I have already promised him that I will return to that in the evaluation of pension communication. In the second half of this year, I also have an answer to the motion he tabled on this point, so that it can also be included in the debate on the future of pension communication. Then the question is: what does it mean for the legal certainty of the UPO; what does it mean for you? Then there is the third point. I very much agree with Mr Omtzig that this dispute between the pension fund, the ABP, and the participants must be resolved. I'd also like to tell him the following, although I'm not going over it. I would like to emphasise that I am not in charge of it. The board of the ABP, employers and employees and also the accountable body of the ABP are concerned. But I understand Mr Omtzigt's concerns. That's what I'm sharing. That is why I am prepared to get in touch with the ABP with the question of whether they want to apply coulance in the recovery of these amounts. They have already mentioned this in press releases, but it does not hurt me to ask that too, because I understand the point. Mr Omtzigt's fourth point is the question of consulting with the ABP and the Pension Federation to see if we can avoid this error in the future. So it's just about the ABP. Other pension funds do not have this scheme. If I do have contact with the ABP, I will take this point right away. I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister explains very well why the roof was leaked and what went wrong. Thank you for that. But he doesn't explain how that roof is being repaired. His answer is: we're going to look at the scope of the recovery. But I asked two questions prior to that. If you give a statement year in, year out of the statement that you are entitled to, can you even go to recovery? By the way, that happened without sending a bill to those people. Then what do you have as a pension participant in pension communication? If it's okay, can it be up to one year, two years, five years, ten years or twenty years? Are we going to recover pensions from next of kin who've been given an inheritance? This is gnawing. It gnaws tremendously at the legal certainty that a pension fund may include the pension from one day to the next. If anyone here has a claim against someone else, they usually have to go to court. Then the judge must check whether that claim is granted. But what does the pension fund do? It just writes a note and says, "We're gonna hold back." So you're even allowed to recover for years? I will ask all the technical questions, Mr President, because you can imagine that people who have to pay back now are also wondering about taxes and fees and so on. But that's so complicated that I'll do it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's how we know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	I thank Mr Omtzigt for the latter. I do think it is right to do so in writing and not to go into details now. I agree with Mr Omtzigt. A mistake has been made and one-sided action has been taken too quickly. That is also recognised by the ABP. It also apologized for that. It has also sent a personal letter to the 700 people who it concerns. I believe that the ABP should now consult with those 700 people on how it will deal with this subject, taking into account coulance. In my first answer, I have already said that it is about unduly overpaid pensions due to a data delivery error by the Social Insurance Bank. The ABP's view is that sums unduly paid out to 700 people are that, and for 300 people, the opposite is true, they have not received enough pension funds to be refunded in order to prevent other participants from being put at a disadvantage. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that what has happened here does not deserve the beauty prize, to say it euphemistically. If your benefit is suddenly withheld or cut without having been properly called or that there have been proper agreements; that is not good. The ABP also apologized for this. I'd like to consult with the ABP to see how we're gonna solve this. I would also like to say to Mr Omtzig that before the summer I would like to return to the question of how this has been resolved in the letter on the state of execution towards the Chamber. It's clear that things have gone wrong here. Once again, I am not going to go over it, but I think the point is so important that I want to work on it myself in order to get it right. The second point is that the Uniform Pension Statement, the UPO, says what you are entitled to. If mistakes have been made, amounts that can be recovered may have been wrongly paid. It is up to the pension rules themselves to determine the time limits for this. These agreements are made in pension regulations between employers, employees and the board of ABP. I have to refer to that. I'm not in charge of that either. That really is a private agreement between employer and employees. If they don't come out, you can always go to the Ombudsman's Pension Office or go to court. I hope that this will not be necessary and that a proper solution will be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, this is very strange. Here the minister simply says: errors in the UPO, errors in the annual pension statement you get from your pension fund, too bad, we can fix it to the infinite disadvantage of the participant. Does the Minister really think so? And does the Minister really think that this is desirable? I think you should be able to derive rights from something. Can I write a letter to a pension fund and say: I am entitled to this? I asked a very precise question. Can a pension fund, if they feel that it should include not only reduce the pension, but also put someone on a zero pension or a very low pension for years to recover it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	The first question. Just for the sake of completeness: if people have been wrongly paid money, this will be borne by the other participants. That is precisely the balance that the board of ABP has once again failed to take into account in order to recover these wrongly paid amounts. This is also in the context of a balanced balance of interests between the participants. It's one pot of money that belongs to all participants. The way it happened doesn't deserve the beauty prize. I agree with Mr Omtzigt. The ABP apologized for that. The ABP is now in consultation with these people to do it in a coulant way. I will do my part in this too. It is not just that if a mistake has been made, then only those who have benefited from it may be disadvantaged, but also the other participants. It is covered by the total pension assets of all members. Unfortunately, that is the fact. Therefore, there should also be a balanced balance in the ABP administration. The second question is whether this should be allowed to happen. I don't know if it's okay. At least I don't think it's wise that it happened like that and I don't think it's nice. I think it should have been discussed. It should have been properly communicated and there should have been consultation with those 700 people. Whether that's legal, I don't know. I should find out. This can also be done in writing if Mr Omtzigt asks questions about the figures and the consequences for supplements later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you and thank you, Mr. Omtzigt.
