ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35347, Rules for dealing with the problem of nitrogen in relation to nature. I would like to welcome the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality back to the First Chamber. I would draw Members' attention to the fact that two Members will make their maiden speech. I'll ring a bell before every maiden speech. After every maiden speech, I will address the speaker briefly. After the last maiden speech, that is Mr Nicolaï's speech in this case, I will briefly suspend the sitting for congratulations. I understand that Mr Van Pareren wishes to speak on an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have an order proposal on behalf of our group, which reads as follows, after a brief introduction. Yesterday, the welfare judge in The Hague ruled that RIVM should show its figures before 1 January, or that the government should indicate that it does not, but it should be well-founded. This means that at present we as a Chamber do not have all the information available to make a proper assessment of this law. That is why we are wondering whether it makes sense to have a substantive debate on this law today. We therefore propose that this debate be postponed for a short time, until 2 January, so that we can discuss facts with each other. Now it is true that according to the, let me put it nicely, current figures or interpretation of those figures are a major burden on one large population group. That is not fair and we believe that there should be a level playing field, or a level playing field. That is what we are proposing: a level playing field, good information, complete information, the right information and then the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. May I take a look around the political groups who would like to speak about this? Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group agrees with Mr Van Pareren. It is not known whether the deposition dates entered into the AERIUS system are complete. The suspicion is that these are not complete, but we do base the policy and therefore this bill that we are going to have to assess on the dates of the AERIUS system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u6	No, I'm not done, Mr. Chairman. If you'll just let me finish, please. Then it's like that... Mr. Van Pareren is talking about January 2nd. I think 2 January is too early, because RIVM has until 1 January to decide whether or not they are going to provide those dates and, if so, they will have to provide them within seven days. So you are sitting on 8 January and the debate should be after 8 January. We therefore support the proposal of the Forum for Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u7	May I ask the spokesmen to say briefly whether or not their group supports the proposal. Otherwise, we're going to have a long time to do this and we don't really have the time to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. We do not support the proposal. It doesn't change the system of the bill. Then there is no need for further delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u9	We do not support the proposal. We would like to have the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u10	Same thing, Chairman. The data are not necessary to assess the system of the law. As far as we are concerned, the debate can continue today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. That's where the VVD joins in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u12	We do not support the proposal either. If further information is needed, this debate is well suited to questioning the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u13	My group also does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u14	My group does not support the proposal. We do not need the data to be able to judge the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u15	We understand the request, but, unfortunately, given the urgency, also because of the construction, in order to get the matter going again, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. My group also does not need any delay. That's not necessary for this legal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u17	I do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. The SP does not support the proposal. The AERIUS model has never been stable in recent years, so that doesn't change the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr President, I agree with the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u20	I shall look at the author of the proposal, Mr Van Pareren. Can you agree that we are going to have the debate now? There is no majority in favour of your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a comment. This chambre de réflexion, which is always beating on the chest that it is so careful and looking closely at the legislation, simply throws aside the principle of care. The principle of motivation is also being thrown aside and the prohibition of bias is also being abandoned. I find that very, very sad. This shows once again that the PVV-position to abolish the First Chamber does cut wood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Happy beginning of the day. Let me look at Mr Van Pareren. Can you agree that we are now going to hold the debate, given the lack of support for your proposal? I note that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u23	I now give the floor to Mr Van Pareren for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. Despite the request, I am prepared to make this speech, which will give some reassurance. I even brought a whole pile of paper. I will try to explain our position briefly. As a matter of urgency, to the Emergency Act on nitrogen, that's what we stand for today. But is it a nitrogen problem now, or do we just have an accounting problem? In other words, isn't there an accounting crisis going on? 'Cause that's what it's really about. Let us look at biomass, for example. Biomass plants pollute the air in such a way that it has been discovered that the state-of-the-art coal plants are clean compared to that. Nevertheless, the accounting programme used finds it will not be Exact, I suspect that there is zero emissions. That's very special. There's a sudden rush, too. Eight months ago, the judge spoke out. The judge made a very clear statement. He said, "It is not true what is being done now; this is not the way it is supposed to be." Eight months the country's locked. And now we're in a hurry to get the construction back on track. To my best knowledge there is also a form of recess for construction, but well, the urgency is considered reasonable. It has already been said that I also heard Mrs Faber say that as a Chamber we are not only a chambre de réflexion, but that, as I would like to add, we should take our decisions carefully, but also on the basis of reality. We also have the 130 km symbol measure. There has been a lot of strangling about that within the coalition. In the end, it was decided that the maximum speed should be 100 km/h. Calculations indicate that there will be a 0.07% reduction, while the more positive calculations in this context show a 0.09% reduction if you can call that positive. Let me start by saying that, of course, nitrogen is not so dangerous, because without nitrogen, we simply would not be able to breathe. In our breath is 80% nitrogen and only 20% oxygen, and there is, yes, also CO in it with some precious metals. I don't know why it's noble, but well, that's what it's called. But it has become suffocating for the Dutchman what all the policy makers are making up to stop the matter here in the Netherlands, because that is just the case. There's a housing disaster going on here. Who could have ever imagined that in 2020, it is almost 2020, a housing disaster in the Netherlands, because eight months ago an accounting programme was rejected? This whole emergency law draws an incredible amount of energy from the Netherlands. There are still so many questions about this emergency law that we haven't finished. Then we have a situation where there has been an unbridgeable backlog in housing. But it is not just housing that has an unbridgeable disadvantage. It is also the construction in the infrastructure. This also affects institutional construction incredibly. It's more than just housing. The whole industrial productivity in the Netherlands is also what VNO-NCW says about this. I won't use another word, because it doesn't fit here. How come this is happening? It already begins with the whole file being filed with the Ministry of LNV. There's nature in that, too. It is, of course, a nice feature that the Ministry of Agriculture also has nature in its file. Those are two major opposing files that require the two hemispheres of the Ministry to deal with them properly. I wanted to say it yesterday: the Minister I miss in this meeting is the Minister for Economic Affairs. It is not just an agricultural problem, it is a bigger problem. It is the problem of economic activity in the Netherlands. And also the construction and industry really fall more under the Ministry of Economic Affairs than under the Ministry of LNV alone. Mr. Chairman. As a Forum, we see a fabricated crisis. A crisis created by accounting and bureaucracy to look at a problem, an alleged problem. Measures are being taken which are draconian and are no longer linked to the prevailing reality. Because if it were really that serious, the world would be locked. Then nothing would happen at all. But the nice thing is, there's no crisis. It's a crisis. That's actually not nice at all, that's intriguing and intriguing. We're looking at a solution. Often asked: you do not think it is going well, but how? It is not difficult to say that within our EU, within Europe, there is very close to a model that works very well and that at least makes industry go crazy, just like the builder and the farmer. That's about a kilometer east, to Germany. The funny thing is, when you cross the border, you'll find a completely different model. That country isn't locked, it just goes on. Why are we so incredibly encased here in the Netherlands and are we no longer able to see the broad lines, the importance of the Dutch State and of our development in the Netherlands? I have a number of questions, because the proverbial water is bouncing against the plinths right now. Needs are high. There are a number of things that I accidentally said yesterday, but perhaps also so clearly that the Minister said: well, you are already working on the following dossier. I might be able to mention another file, Teflon, but let's stick to this file for now. We note that the threshold for nitrogen deposition here in the Netherlands is very low. So you're gonna get over it fast. Why do we do that? What's with the tough condition? So our first question is: is the government going to ensure that a realistic value is set? Look at our neighbouring countries. I mentioned Germany, but look at Belgium as well. You can't pretend there are limits and nitrogen says: The Netherlands is doing so much fun; I'm not coming anymore. No, that nitrogen's gonna come here, too. Our question to the Minister is: can the border be raised? This is important not only for farmers but also for construction, otherwise they will be back in licensing systems. Something's been developed that's gonna take months. And then you're not done, because if there's another group or person who says, "I don't agree with it," after that six months of waiting, you'll be staying in the monkey again, because then you're still two months in the process, with another chance of appealing. The Council of State has also said a number of things about grazing cows and fertilising the land by activity. This would require a permit. That's an unworkable situation. So the question to the government is: can you be more merciful in that, so that there is also room for farmers to continue to do their job? Some space has been created, but a clear total space has not been promised. Then you've got the internal salad. This includes the emission value at the time of authorisation or the value of the best available technique. What's being used? What form is being applied now? There is uncertainty about this, and that is not necessary in principle. You cannot use that uncertainty if you want to lay down a clear law that is accepted and carried and can therefore be implemented. A large number of companies are formally not licensed beyond their fault during this post-PAS period. This has to be resolved. When's that gonna happen? Is there also a policy of tolerance? We've been over this for a while. It was the reason for our point of order at the beginning. There's been an investigation from the Mesdag Fund, there's been a further investigation, and there's even been a lawsuit about it, but the readings don't add up. Are you going to make sure that the measurements are correct, so that based on good measurements... I heard RIVM say: we are very good at measuring; only, politics is working on our measurements. So I never know what was measured. Is it the politics that does the measuring, or is it really a competent, objective measurement? The question is, of course, direct: why should it be so mysterious? Why should there be a court of law for that? Why does the welfare court have to be working on that? It's also our people. Let us not go against each other, but in consultation, in cooperation and in solution. It is absolutely necessary to introduce a transparent measurement and monitoring network of nitrogen depositions in the Netherlands. Are you going to take care of this? And when? And if you don't, why don't you? We also talked yesterday about skimming allowances for farmers. Are you going to ensure that this is done on a market-based basis, so that it does not become a measure of less and less, but a measure that has a reality and can therefore also count on acceptance? Our position on the authorised deposition space is: once granted, remains awarded. How's the government in there? Is she going to take care of that, and when is that clear? Then there is the first purchase right of provinces for farmland. How will the value of that land be maintained? Minister, are you going to make sure that the provinces actually assume that they have a fair methodology and that this remains the case? We encourage the Limburg provincial explanation of the policy rules. Are you going to ensure that it is followed in the other provinces as well? In construction, clarity in rules is incredibly important: where are we and what can we rely on? Construction requires very clear thresholds. There are several moments in construction. During construction people are busy working and there is a lot of driving, but that is a limited period. That does indeed give more emissions than when living in the houses, buildings, industrial buildings and so on. So do you, government, want to make this clear quickly and that you will work with two values? A value understanding the many activities around building and then the user phase with a lower coefficient or mole per hectare. That is very important, because we are all saying that construction will get back to work when it comes through, but construction sees this as a first step. It is certainly not the last step, and I have mentioned one point that can slow down this step if it does not come to clarity, not only clarity, but also a clear measure, a clear value. The nitrogen bank applies to housing and seven infrastructure works, but for convenience it seems that the utility building is now being forgotten. I just mentioned it differently, but it is a sector of the same size as the first two mentioned. Why is this construction being forgotten? Are you going to ensure that it can work under the same conditions as the two previously mentioned sectors? When are you going to announce that? The provinces have the policy note internal or external netting. They are going to lay down a piece of nitrogen ceiling on a much-needed extension. This affects not only the construction industry but the whole industry. It is striking that the EU, to which you attach your entire programme, does not demand that right. Minister, can you make sure that this policy note of the provinces is updated as soon as possible? I was just a little excited when I talked about 2 January, but 10 January is also a very reasonable deadline. If not, why not? A clear realistic threshold for the sector will therefore ensure that construction gets off the ground and that we really do something with it that we want to achieve. We can assume that this law, as I said yesterday, has been examined in legal terms. Can you indicate that this is the case and what the result is? If there are any doubts, what preventive action has been taken by the government? Mr. Chairman. I am almost at my last question and I am almost out of my speaking time. I repeat our request that I have already made yesterday: Minister, please remain in consultation and do not wait until the need is highest. See the market players, so to speak, as the parties with which they have to work. So the question is: can you ensure that, from now on, there is as much systematic work with the parties involved as with other parties that are now working with? So with each other, in the connection working on solutions. I have said before that I miss the Minister of Economic Affairs. I don't miss you. I'm glad you're here, Minister. But again, I miss the Minister of Economic Affairs to see it in the broadest sense. Then we have the Natura 2000 sites. I would also like to make a very serious request to make it a new classification, a more realistic and limited classification. Not all snippets by the Netherlands, because then you'll be out of here soon, but just, realisticly name what needs to be named and not every corner counted, because that gives you a problem, as we see now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u25	Does Mr Van Pareren now say: "We can go with less nature"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u26	If I remember my words, I didn't say we could go with less nature. I have said that we are better able to cluster in nature reserves. This could sometimes lead to a reduction, Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Pijlman, but I can tell you that I live in a crowded city and that I still see a lot of nature around me. So it's also about the motivation of what you call nature. But our hearts are also warm to nature, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u27	I understand that, but it can be a bit less if it is necessary to release the nitrogen further. Am I getting it together that well? If it's necessary, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Pijlman is asking me if this is true. I should like to point out that we are now working with a law in which we want to promote housing. I can imagine that these houses are supposed to be somewhere, and I could just imagine a piece of empty land disappearing. Empty land, what some call nature and what others call arable land, agricultural land, and arable land for houses, so building land.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u29	Last time. I understand, but that's not how it works. We have identified Natura 2000 sites ourselves, and I now understand from you that if you have to do something else, you will not mind, because one of them calls this nature and the other says 'this is arable land'. But that is not how our system and the legislation are structured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Oh, you're still on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr President, for your thanks. In fact, I wanted to conclude with what we do think is a good idea. I have already mentioned that, but I would like to address and emphasise it in closing points. That's the German model. Then we just solved the whole thing. Then we'll see how we can refine it further into the future. But for now we will not have a situation that will close the whole of the Netherlands. Because there has been a major housing disaster, and that is totally unacceptable and no longer sellable to our inhabitants. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I call Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Having created a nitrogen problem by the European Union and encouraged by the environmental clubs, this government does not come up with an emergency law, but a piece of shit law. The emergency law initiated by the PVV, which could actually have given six months air to the farmers and the builders, was mercilessly shot off in the House of Representatives. And now this government comes up with a false solution, which only makes the situation worse and the farmers are going to pay the top price. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal provides for a ministerial regime to modify the threshold for nitrogen deposition at national level. It can be set higher, but also lower in the future. The threshold may be raised at national level, but at local level the Natura 2000 sites with the corresponding tight management rules remain a showstop. According to the AERIUS calculation model, there would already be too much nitrogen in these areas, but to what extent is this a reliable tool if RIVM indicates that this model has more than 30% deviations and sometimes 70% at local level? It is also not yet known which deposition dates have been entered. We don't know that now, so we're going to decide on something that we can't really decide yet, but that aside. Thus it can happen that, if those data do come out, there will be claims from for example the Mesdagfonds and the Stichting Stikstofclaim. That will be on the taxpayer's sign. Anyway, the Minister is now coming up with measures to give fresh air to construction and infrastructure projects, because before you know it, the Malieveld after the farmers and the builders is just full of house seekers and homeless people, and of course we shouldn't have that. For example, only projects with a significant impact on Natura 2000 sites will be subject to authorisation. Authorisations are only granted if there is space in the deposition space, which together with the permits issued will be kept in a new nitrogen registration system, a kind of PAS 2.0. I wonder how long this PAS 2.0 will last against the subsidised environmental clubs. Chances are they're gonna take this PAS 2.0 to court, too. The question to the Minister is therefore: how does she estimate the sustainability of the PAS 2.0? Mr. Chairman. In order to create additional deposition space, the Minister wants to prohibit the Netherlands from kicking in the accelerator more than 100 km/h. So nothing vroom, vroom. Corn on the mill of the left-wing green bike riders. They're already happy if they're kicking and breathing 20 km/h. Well, green socialists often have a hard time getting that one has something more or a little more than the other. Mr. Chairman. Not only the maximum speed is further limited, but also the number of animals in livestock farming. For decades our farmers have worked hard on a strong, modern agricultural sector. They modernised their businesses, resulting in high-quality agricultural products and a strong reduction in CO, phosphate and nitrogen. But as a result they have been dismissed for many years as eco-criminals and now this cabinet has the courage to use both hands to reduce livestock farming by means of reorganisation and the skimming of rights. I have indicated before that skimming rights is a construction to take ownership. Mr. Chairman. In principle, there is nothing wrong with adapting animal feed so that proteins are used efficiently, but please leave this to the sector itself. If farmers and animal feed producers see sense, they will take care of it themselves. After all, the sector has already shown that it has enormous resilience and is able to innovate strongly. And what happens to the stock of cattle feed? What are the consequences for the costs? And what about the roughage, for example grass? Does the proposed measure also have an additional impact on the permitted amount of manure to be used? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the acceleration of the warm clean-up of pig farmers. Whether it's a warm or a cold clean-up, it's still a clean-up. The shrinking of livestock also has a major impact on other farms, such as the meat processing industry. These companies are also at risk of shrinking. They have to import or import more from abroad. It's like those pigs don't poop across the border. But apparently not close to a human-made nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 site. 'Cause not everyone's crazy Gerritje. And why the pigs? A pre-sorting on the progressive Islamization perhaps, because pigs are haram. Apparently, we're gonna have to get rid of the bacon rags. I'd like a response from the Minister. I now see the members of the SP Group smiling. May I invite them to walk to the interrupting microphone if they have a comment or a question? Mr. Chairman. The scope created by the measures will go to nature for 30%. This sounds nice, but in fact it is used to maintain an artificial situation. It has been overlooked that beautiful nature does not necessarily have to be Natura 2000 nature; the idea of creating more than one hundred nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites scattered across the country was included. As long as that doesn't change, the noose is getting tighter and tighter. And in the first instance it is the farmers who pay the top price. And then what? Then it's our turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. I like consistency and once again Mrs Faber has not disappointed me. Groomed by the European Union, every bird sings as it is beaked, but in my family we would say: it was made of thick wood again. While we heard last week that we had to quit. But okay. Mr. Chairman. I would like to wish Mrs Prins and Mr Nicolaï every success in holding their maiden speech, later this day, and to congratulate them in advance. Normally, a contribution starts with a thank you to the Minister for answering the questions asked. I would like to make an exception to this today and, above all, to thank my colleagues for the questions they have asked. I have read these questions and also the answers and learned a lot from them. It has confirmed my group's conviction that we are obliged to act as a matter of urgency for the people of the country. It reassured us, but I'll come back to that. From the beginning of the discussion on the emergency law, I had to think of a statement by a politician for whom I had a great deal of respect in my young years. He was also by chance a minister's predecessor. He let himself go several times: if he can't do it the way he should, then he has to do it the way he can. The same is true now, in a sense. An emergency law is rarely a legal delight in which the lawyers lick their fingers. This brings us directly to the questions about legal sustainability, asked by GroenLinks, among others. In the view of the VVD Group, the Minister has adequately answered these questions. As a follow-up, I would like to put a question to the Minister. Has the VVD group understood correctly that, unlike the PAS, nitrogen space is now being released if it is actually created, and that this space is continuously measured and calculated by the RIVM? If so, an important question on legal sustainability has been answered. Why an emergency law and not direct structural measures? It should be noted that authorisation is difficult, even for projects which hardly contribute to the problems of nitrogen. That doesn't feel right. That is why we must come up with an answer as soon as possible. Such complex problems, which is the problem of nitrogen, cannot be solved overnight. To rightly asked questions by Forum, the government answers that a solid long-term approach to improving nature and reducing nitrogen depositions is being developed in cooperation with provinces. All this in close cooperation with stakeholders and interested institutions. The government has undertaken to inform the two chambers periodically. The VVD Group welcomes this and wishes the government, and in particular this minister, to increase all the wisdom and inventiveness to come up with structural proposals. In the meantime, as my group understands, we need to ensure that a good balance is struck between what the nitrogen space is spent on. Housing and improvement of nature, for which also substantial money is reserved? That's obvious. However, as the government's answers to questions from D66 show, congestion contributes to the nitrogen problem for a non-important part. In short, don't forget the infrastructure and the transport sector in an attempt to kill two birds with one stone. Returning to the improvement of nature. Mr President, Mr Van Pareren would like to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u36	I thought I'd let you finish. But Mr. Van Pareren, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Through you I would like to thank Mr Ballekom for the space he gives me in this. I heard Mr Ballekom say that the provinces are busy working on good measures. My name was mentioned. I'm curious if you can point that out. I indicated that the province of Limburg is a very good example. I myself am a member of the State in another province, and I can tell you that this province is not such a good example. Can you describe it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u38	I don't think I mentioned you by name. I mentioned your party. A long time ago it was "Von," but that's "Van" nowadays. In that sense, my name has changed. I can't explain it, because it's too early for that. That is why we are very much looking forward to what the Minister is coming up with and what she is still doing, in cooperation with provinces and stakeholders. We have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u39	I apologize for not saying Mr Van Ballekom's name properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u40	Doing so one learns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u41	I am sorry that I forgot to mention Mrs Prins and Mr Nicolaï, who is not here. I didn't realize they weren't all here yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. A few words about the improvement of nature and the use of funds. Can the Minister give us some more information on this? Investing in nature improvement is a partial solution to the nitrogen problem. How will the Minister achieve this, particularly in those areas where nitrogen depositions are significant? The VVD would be in favour of achieving this without contributing to further fragmentation. The aim should be to create solid and large natural areas. Snapping should be countered. Finally, Mr President. The system of introducing a threshold below which no authorisation is required is an attractive one. It avoids red tape and irritation, but we must, of course, be sure that the regulation in this area is well-founded and legally sustainable. The VVD will be happy to receive information about the possibilities of working with this instrument in due course. Mr. Chairman. This contribution shows that I will advise my group to agree to this emergency law, despite the fact that I have been flooded with e-mails over the last few days and requests not to do so until there is a structural solution in sight. I would like to say to the people who sent me this e-mail: we simply cannot lock the Netherlands; we do not. To speak with the words of my colleague, Mr Otten, who said that in the press: we are not abandoning the Dutch economy. For the record, my party has never done that, and she is not doing that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u43	I fully agree that we should not lock the Netherlands, but then we should start at the source of all the misery, and these are the Natura 2000 sites. So let us start by relaxing the management rules for the Natura 2000 sites or removing them. How does Mr. Van Pareren see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr Ván Pareren and Mr Ván Ballekom. Oh, sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u45	Excuse me. I still have to get used to all those names in a new room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u46	It's still early. Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u47	I think that if we could have dealt with this very quickly with the European Union, the government would have chosen to do so. I understand there's a meeting going on. It will be a long time before there is a little more insight into the possibilities and the inability to shape and adapt these areas. I don't think we have that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u48	So we can conclude from this that the European Union is in fact a suffocating factor in this whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u49	Well, you can't say that, because of course we agreed to divide those areas in this way. The fact that we may regret this after all is another matter. That has nothing to do with the servants who serve us from Brussels. That has more to do with ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mrs Faber, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u51	Now, of course, it's going to be very interesting, because the colleague of the VVD admits that the elite has gone along with that... madness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u52	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u53	That's my candy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u54	There's a doctor in the room, if you have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u55	I hope Mrs Faber doesn't choke on that, but I've lost the question. This is so distracting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u56	Then we'll finish with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u57	You want me to rephrase it? I'll reset it, Mr. Chairman. It shouldn't get any weirder today. Of course, it is becoming very interesting now, because in fact the VVD colleague admits that the elite have gone along with this European Union madness and that we are now dealing with these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u58	I have a completely different view of the Union and of the madness. Nature must be protected. It's best if we do that together. We owe it to ourselves, or to us, or whatever way you want to see it. If you want to change that, you have to take that seriously, but I think we'll be a lot further before we have another solution. And we just don't have that time. But I do hope that the government will take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u59	I am glad that the VVD finally comes to the conclusion that it should not abandon the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u60	We've never done that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u61	No, but you have pursued a suffocating policy over the last nine years by creating a raft of rules with this nitrogen legislation that no one can tie to. I'm glad you're coming to a moving insight now. Under pressure from our side, the direction is finally taken. I'm very happy about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u62	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u63	My question to Mr Van Ballekom is: what are the structural measures that the VVD believes should be taken to make this crisis manageable for the construction industry, the farmer and the Dutch business community?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u64	A brief answer, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u65	That's what the government's gonna come up with, just like she promised. I think an improvement in nature is part of the solution. That's also indicated. If we knew the structural measures by now, we would have had another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u66	A brief response, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u67	I heard Mr Van Ballekom say that nationalization of nature reserves is part of the solution. Didn't I just hear you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u68	An improvement of nature is part of the solution, yes. That is also what money is being spent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u69	We have put forward a solution for this, and you did not support it at the time, even though you were sympathetic to it. But what have you been doing for the past ten years? You could have thought of this, couldn't you? Now you come to the conclusion that something must be done because the country is stuck in a crisis. Where was the direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u70	I'd like a brief summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u71	I do not know exactly when Natura 2000 and its implementation have been agreed by the Netherlands, but it seems to me more than ten years ago. It has been known for a long time that the problems are now occurring. That is why we must now find a structural solution. We're definitely gonna do that next year. I have also given the Minister all the wisdom and inventiveness to do so. I think that we in this House will also have an exchange of views on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u72	Given the time available, there is still room for a brief interruption by Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u73	I would like to ask Mr Van Ballegooijen... Ballekom! Ballekom!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u74	It's still hard, but it's been my whole life. I can't get through that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u75	I'm sorry about this. You say it is a problem and you have talked about a solution. I just put in the German model. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u76	I do not have enough initial knowledge to analyse the German model to the finesses, but we can work and recreate in the Netherlands with 18 million people on a very small piece of land, in a very good way with as little as possible burden on the environment that people house, house and recreate. Germany has a different problem. I sometimes say that the Randstad may have to be compared with the Paris agglomeration; but Germany and France can, of course, compensate for their depositions because there is an empty hinterland. With us, that hinterland is less empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you. I will go with you to the next speaker, Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, too, I should like to congratulate Mrs Prins and Mr Nicolaï proactively. I'm doing this now, because I'm only gonna get my turn later this afternoon after their maiden speeches, and then it's gonna take me so long to congratulate them. Secondly, as a result of the debate so far, I find myself in a somewhat ironic situation. I have heard a speaker keep a story where I do not feel at home in terms of reasoning or style, far from it, but who, under the line, might come to the same conclusion about this law as I do. I have just heard a speaker with a reasoning and argumentation that I feel very much at home, but which, under the line, probably comes to a different conclusion about the law than I do. I've decided I'll stick to our own story and our own conclusions. That might also mark our unique position. Mr. Chairman. In 2018 and 2019, the European Court of Justice and the Council of State put a big line through the Programme Approach Nitrogen. Why? Because the PAS was too much based on wishful thinking, the nitrogen deposition was not properly compensated and it did not contribute to the strengthening of nature. You can't say that you couldn't have seen that coming, but yet the ruling of the Council of State struck many places like a bomb. The government was not prepared either, and it took seven months for us to talk about an emergency law, which even the advocates say is a messy mess, but you have to do something. The PAS is gone, and that is where we are talking about today, of course, a major problem with the creation of new activities in the vicinity of Natura 2000 sites. The conclusion was actually clear. In order to allow socially desirable activities to continue, you have to choose a combination of strengthening nature and reducing nitrogen deposition. Until that is settled, new activities in the immediate vicinity of Natura 2000 sites are in the throes. This is causing serious problems, especially for housing. The housing industry itself has little to do with it, which produces a very small amount of nitrogen on..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So there is work to be done and so there must be an effective answer. So far, I'm following all the reasoning. The pillars for such an effective approach are actually not so terribly complicated. We know where the Natura 2000 sites are, we know what nature strengthening and nature protection means, and we know what the main sources of nitrogen emissions are. I also propose to mention the animal by the name. The most important sources of nitrogen emissions are, at one point, livestock farming, closely followed by industry and shipping, and there again a long way behind road traffic and households. In the case of livestock farming, more than half are dairy farms, and in particular ammonia. That's the data. Then I'm not talking about guilt or anything, that's just the facts. With these facts in hand, the government was able to work to come up with a good answer. I would like to hear from the Minister whether I reject it properly, because I think it is the basis of the conversation we are having. So if I'm not correct in that, I'd appreciate it if she would show me the right way in her first term. Everyone understands that the problems we're talking about will not be solved in a few months. We've let it go far too far for that, too. In most of the land-based Natura 2000 sites the nitrogen content is far too high, with all the consequences for the quality of the nature that we want to protect. That's not one-two-three in reverse. What society can expect is an approach that contributes to it, an approach that sets clear objectives in the area of strengthening nature, in which clear targets are set for reducing nitrogen deposition, there is also a concrete timetable for achieving these goals and a main line of measures that can contribute to this. That's a base I expected today. Then I understand it's all not exactly finished yet, but then you've got something. On the basis of these measures, you can then, together with those involved, but within that framework and within that time horizon, take steps. I would like to hear from the Minister why the government did not take that approach at once, why seven months passed and then we come to talk about a law that we all say is not much, whether you vote for or against, and let's get to work on a structural solution. It would have been better if that had happened in the last few months. I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. Then it's about the law before it. What are you doing with that? Like I said, you can say "it's not much, but let's just be for that." You can also say "it's not much, let's be against it." We are essentially looking at whether this law is going to do what it promises to do. That seems to me to be an extremely important question for the First Chamber. Does the Emergency Act approach nitrogen what it intends to do? Then I must say, I am truly sorry, that we have great doubts about this. There are hardly any hard instruments in the law to reduce nitrogen depositions. Those instruments are there, but they're not in the law. Reducing the speed limit is one of them; regardless of what you can think of it, it certainly contributes a bit. A warm clean-up of pig farming will produce something, in the long term. The only hard instrument in this law is the cattle feed trail. It's just that cattle feed trail that's still butter-smooth. It may be a hard instrument, but the question is whether it's going to work, what the effect is, whether it's all possible, what it's going to do for animal welfare, whether it's going to become mandatory and if it's going to become mandatory, when it's going to be, and whether it can be maintained. That's not gonna give us any nitrogen space in the next six months. In addition, on the reduction side, you also have a nitrogen registration system, of course, but yes, that records what goes out and what comes in; it's good that it comes in, I think, but that doesn't win the war and the thresholds. But these thresholds have just been asked for information from the Council of State. That information doesn't lie. What does the Council of State say? Those threshold values may exist, but they can only be area specific. I just heard people talking about national thresholds. I don't think that's possible. That is what I think the government says in the letter I tried to read with small eyes last night at 12 o'clock. But the Council of State also says that these thresholds can only be embedded in a much broader, effective overall approach, with demonstrable, measurable goals and a scientifically-based approach. So that's the whole plan we need. I am not necessarily against thresholds, alone, thresholds are not going to work and are not going to be effective, and therefore cannot be introduced until we have a comprehensive approach. And what remains at the bottom of the line for that law is extremely small. I can't actually find it. Then it's a frame, and I understand that frame.It's probably all true, but don't complain, because that housing must get going again; they have to build 75,000 homes and build seven roads. I respect the parties, and I say that, even though it is not my political style at all, nor is it my family, who are voting for this bill for that reason, but I do not agree with them. And why don't I agree with them? I do not agree, because that law is not going to do what is said to be going to do, and I have tried to argue that. Now it is fortunate that not all housing projects are stationary. There's a lot of talk about that, but fortunately that's not true. There are absolutely barriers, that is certainly true. It is also not the case that the housing projects that lie still, all of which lie still because of that nitrogen, but it is true that this nitrogen deposition creates barriers that we would rather not see. I say, then, make sure that those barriers are really cleared up, by effective nature measures and effective nitrogen measures, and do not come up with something that you can only minusculely do a little bit of sister and a little bit like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u79	The law is dismembered by you and is far from enough. But in other debates, of course, your party also advocates that this housing should be promoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u80	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u81	What would you like right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u82	Indeed, we very much want the housing industry to come back on track. I have also said that I respect parties who therefore vote in favour of this law. I also said that I do not think this law is going to help housing. I think I said what needed to be done, but we should have worked on it seven months ago. If you have a mission and want to reduce the nitrogen deposition to 50% of what it is now, and that is what these measures are supposed to achieve, and the first three measures are these, these and these, and we have a scientific agency that supports and monitors that, then you have an approach. And we're gonna build ecological connecting zones. I do not think I should use that word anymore; it is now called'strengthening nature reserves'. I'm also against fragmentation, but then you have to shred them and not lift them. That is an approach that stands, and we know that for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u83	I think a lot of things you're saying are right, but it doesn't make much sense, though it's nice metaphor in this one to look the cow in the ass. We are now going to do something now so that this housing is really getting back on track and in your approach you are simply postponing it. Once again, this structural approach needs to be put in place. That is also what the Council of State has said, but we are going to work now and GroenLinks seems to think that a postponement of housing is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u84	No, GroenLinks says that postponement for housing is continued by this law, because this emergency law does not actually contribute to the construction of that housing. I am also sorry that time has been wasted, seven months and much longer, but you cannot say that we did not say that we would come here when the PAS entered into force. I think we have some right to speak. In the meantime, you won't be able to do anything else until there's something that's effective, than just salad on the construction site. That's quite possible, by the way. It requires some of the builders, who are already working very actively on this. I'm not talking about GroenLinks, I'm talking about builders and companies like that. Just make sure that you have zero emissions or that the emissions you have are eliminated at the construction site. That is much more effective at the moment than a law that is ineffective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you. One more quick question, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u86	Well, conclusion: if you read the contributions of Building Netherlands alone, you know that this law is absolutely necessary to start building again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u87	That's not a question. Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u88	A question to Mr Van Gurp about his explanation and explanation. I get that he's saying, "We should have started that seven months ago." That didn't happen. I think we all agree on that. Does Mr Van Gurp see what we are discussing today, this approach to nitrogen, as some sort of ultimum remedium? In other words, can't you look at it in a different way and say: okay, for the moment at least we can get things moving and there's much more to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u89	Mr. Van Gurp, please give me a brief answer. And would you like to finish your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u90	I will do so as briefly as possible, but apparently I am not clear. I didn't just try to say it's an ultimum remedium. I said it's not gonna work. And since it's not gonna work, it's not gonna do you any good to vote for it and pretend it's gonna work. That is the essence of my speech. Of course, we are having a debate on this and I would like to hear the Minister, but this is the position I am putting down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. Schalk for a short while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u92	Maybe it won't work in time, we'll have to wait and see. But for the moment this is a good intermediate step which at least solves a kind of state of emergency for construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u93	That's not a question. Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u94	I will conclude, because I have actually had my final word by interrupting. I wish I could share the beliefs of Mr Pijlman and Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u95	I think that's a win!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u96	... that at least this is a meaningful step in the interim. In our belief, it's not an intermediate step, because it's not gonna do anything and it's not gonna do anything because there are no hard instruments. The only thing that could work is the threshold, and that can only work in a global approach, and there is no such overall approach. That is at the heart of our argument and I would have liked to have done so, too, so that I could come to a different conclusion, because then I was in a pleasant family, but I can only come to this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Then Mrs Prince has the floor for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u98	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Pareren, Mrs Kluit and Mrs Nanninga on their maiden speech yesterday afternoon and wish Mr Nicolaï every success. Mr President, you will only be a farmer today. And I am thinking of a young farmer who took over his father's farm a few years ago. As far as he knows, his family has always been a farmer and farm life is in his blood. He can't imagine anything but being a farmer. That's his lust and his life. After his agricultural training and working with his father for several years, he took the step and not only took over the company, but at the same time invested heavily in innovation, such as emission-free stables and a lot of attention for the food and welfare of the animals. For this young farmer believes in pig farming, but also realizes that farmers as before are no longer responsible at this time. Following the provision of a firm business plan, the bank financed it and in April of this year it even bought some production rights with the help of the bank, so that it can use them at a later date. Until the end of May he was enthusiastic and passionate about his work, although he didn't make much money yet, but had fun in the development of his company. But look at him. He's been living in uncertainty for months. He sleeps badly and worries about the future of his family and his company. He himself doesn't get any happier, especially when he reads the newspapers. Oh, sure, he realizes that changes are needed, that agriculture has to take its share in this nitrogen crisis. On the other hand, it is the farmers who have really made significant contributions in recent years to reducing the nitrogen deposition! At the same time, Mr. Chairman, you'll only be a builder at this time. With blood, sweat and tears, you've managed to guide your construction company through the economic crisis in recent years. It finally worked and luckily: the last few years were beautiful years. To your pleasure you have been able to get your former employees back from the WW. You've got another team of workers around you that you're proud of. A team that has delivered many homes in recent years. The company grew back to about 50 employees. Just beautiful in your region, right next to the German border. Where you remember each other: your clients, but also your suppliers, the plumbers, the painters, the kitchen suppliers and so on. But since the end of May this builder has not received any new assignments. Fortunately, he had just started a new project of about 150 homes, but by the end of February 2020 they will be ready. And then what? It doesn't help him sleep. Does he have to fire his loyal employees again, go back to the UWV? Or worse, is there going to be bankruptcy? You'll just be that teacher who, after many pleas from one of her old schoolmates, went to work in the west of the country. Now she travels 150 km every day and 150 km back. What does she want to live with her partner and children near the school? They wanted to sell their old house and were already buying a single-family house in a new neighborhood of the city of her school. The houses still have to be built and the interest is great, because so often you can't find a house for a price for which you can still get a mortgage loan as a teacher. Unfortunately, the developer has informed her that it has not been clear since the nitrogen crisis whether and, if so, when the construction can be started. She hates it. Traveling it every day is gonna break her up, especially now that she and her partner no longer have a perspective on a home. If they had done this, they would have been able to count it down. Her old school in the east of the country wants her back. But she's having second thoughts. Or you'll only be one of those many rangers. He doesn't hesitate anymore. Every day he sees with his own eyes that in his area the diversity of trees and plants is divisive. He's not the only one. Almost all forest rangers see the fragmentation and spot less and less bird species and insects than before. He used to doubt: is it only in his area, or is it only temporary? But after all the research and analysis that has been done, he and his fellow forest rangers know for sure: nature in the Netherlands is not doing well. The current efforts are really too little. Really, so he sighs, all hands on deck. Since the end of May he has some hope that something is really going to happen. But when? Mr President, here are some examples from the circle of farmers, citizens, builders and outsiders. Citizens on whose behalf and for whom we are members of the Upper House. Citizens who are angry, or frustrated, but above all citizens who are worried, who are insecure. They fear the future of their company, their job, their family, their country. All citizens who have experienced a standstill in our country since the end of May. All citizens who don't know what to do or what to do, and they have to wait for clarity. Because what will the Netherlands do? What can be done soon and what can no longer be done? In this context, the Cabinet has now announced the first measures with the Emergency Act on nitrogen. This law and the accompanying measures create mixed feelings among the CDA Group. On the one hand relief: fortunately, measures are being taken, part of the construction can probably be resumed and there will be additional budget for the restoration of nature. On the other hand, the CDA Group is unhappy with the limited progress. Too many people remain in the dark after this law. Does the farmer now have clarity about his future, for his conversation with the bank? Can the builder in the border region get back to work? The cabinet is talking about a crisis, but it is a crisis that requires swift and adequate action. In a crisis it is important to keep a cool head, take control and clearly show your surroundings that you have an overview and that you do what you have to do. Oh, sure, this emergency law gives a first boost to construction. At the same time, the percentage of nitrogen deposition in the construction and infrastructure sectors is extremely modest. This raises the question of when the cabinet will come up with its vision, with its plans for the real nitrogen crisis. In the first week of its existence, however, the new European Commission, which has just taken office, will not be able to present a comprehensive climate plan, while the Dutch Government has not yet made any progress since May. Mr President, in my years of experience in business I have learned: 'never waste a good crisis'. It is precisely then that there is room to create and implement new and/or strengthened policies. The country is aware of the need to intervene. Our farmers, citizens, builders and outsiders are looking for new security. It is precisely uncertainty that has a negative impact on people. There is, therefore, a great need for a perspective in which, even if it is possible, it is outlined in general terms how this can be achieved. A perspective with space for our agricultural sector, one of the most innovative sectors of our country, and with space for nature and the restoration of nature. A country that we want to pass on must be future-proof, where food and therefore agriculture and a healthy environment are crucial to them and must and can strengthen each other. Of course, we have taken note with interest of the Minister's plan, 'Value and Connected', a perspective on the future of agriculture, nature and food in our country. However, we do not see how this ambition can be achieved in general terms. What does this mean for the farmers in our country? Can they trust that there is and will be appreciation for the work they are doing? What are the consequences for our economy? How is the transformation to another agricultural sector being shaped and how are farmers supported in their own future perspective? Can the Minister tell us when there will be more clarity about the implementation of this plan? (NL) Mr President, then the Emergency Act on nitrogen itself. We understand that, on the basis of the deposition space released as a result of the reduction in speed to 100 km/h, a different composition of animal feed and the warm clean-up of pig farms, the government estimates that 70% of this space offers the possibility of building 75,000 homes and carrying out seven MIRT projects. The CDA Group wonders how realistic it is to reserve this freed-up nitrogen space for 75,000 homes, as there were fewer homes delivered in 2019 than in 2018 and it is one of the major challenges in building to find affordable construction sites. In other words, to what extent is it possible to grant space to other construction and infrastructure projects? What was the consideration of the choice to allocate 70% of the nitrogen space released to construction and to allocate 30% extra to nature restoration? Let us be clear: construction produces only a very small amount of nitrogen deposition. At the same time, due to a limited space, the emergency law already provides an impetus in the construction sector. Has the Minister considered making the total nitrogen space released available for construction, partly in view of the extra 250 million for nature and nature restoration? Does the Minister recognise the signs that several SMEs in the period from March to June 2020 have stopped working? Is the government prepared, should this concern become reality, to investigate possibilities such as a variant of part-time unemployment or, as is the case in Germany, the Kurz-WW, in order to alleviate temporary unemployment? The nitrogen registration system operates via a direct link of the site in a Natura 2000 site, where the increase in nitrogen deposition occurs through a project, and the location in the same area where a source measure created the deposition space. Does the Minister have any idea of the extent to which the areas where the need for construction and infrastructure projects is highest are compatible with the areas where the source measures can be implemented? To what extent are there opportunities for construction in border regions and in the western part of our country? How can we place the building deals agreed by the Minister of the Interior in the five regions where the biggest cut in the housing market is in relation to the laws and regulations of this emergency law? The CDA Group welcomes the additional 250 million for the restoration of several Natura 2000 sites. Can the Minister provide us with an insight into the criteria for selecting these Natura 2000 sites? Is this taking into account the plans which the Minister is going to discuss with the European Commission on the possibilities of merging and/or redefining Natura 2000 sites and the updating of the target system of several Natura 2000 sites? We believe that these additional funds will be used effectively and thus to strengthen those areas for which there is no doubt. Furthermore, we wonder how Natura 2000 sites are handled which are cross-border. Can the Minister tell us what percentage of permits is currently being suspended in the provinces and what percentage is being awarded thanks to the use of this emergency legislation? The nitrogen registration system takes a lot of time before it can really be rebuilt in our country. This system creates additional administrative burdens and offers no or no relief in some areas. The use of a threshold, preferably area-oriented as indicated by the Council of State, is simpler and faster. Can the Minister inform us about the planning and nature of the use of the threshold? Is the Minister prepared to allocate this threshold not only on a regional basis, as she indicated in her letter yesterday, but also on a regional basis, giving priority to areas of high need? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the nitrogen emergency law provides opportunities for the construction sector to resume its work in the coming months. At the same time, the measures proposed are complex and contain many loose ends. We in the First Chamber have the primary responsibility to review the laws and regulations for efficiency, legality and enforcement. As a CDA group, we are waiting with great interest for a more comprehensive perspective on how we in the Netherlands will not only tackle the nitrogen crisis, but above all together, as farmers, citizens, builders and outsiders, they will work side by side on a healthy and sustainable Netherlands. We prefer to test laws in the light of a real perspective. What is even more important, however difficult it may be, is that measures will be better understood and respected by society and better enforced when one realizes why these laws are needed in the context of a clearly defined objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After your training as executive secretary, you went to work at the cigarette factory Laurens, the manufacturer of Caballero at the time. You got acquainted with the world of advertising and marketing and took various courses in the fields of marketing, presentation and public relations. You became manager of advertising agency Nijgh Campbell Ewald, Deputy Director of PPGA/JWT and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saatchi & Saatchi. In the end, you worked in the advertising world for 25 years before you switched to the non-profit sector. You became "director change" at the UWV. Looking back on that period, you said in Vrij Nederland: "At UWV they used a language that no one really understood. It had to be different." Well, then, of course, you'll end up in the First Chamber, I understand that. "Man had to be at the centre and no longer the rules and procedures." After several years, the change was measurable. It gave you the title Communication Woman of the Year in 2008. Since 2009, you have been chairman of the Philadelphia Health Board, which provides care for over 8,000 people with learning difficulties. Here too, you were asked to initiate a process of change and to make the organisation future-proof. In 2011 you were named Care Manager of the Year, because you were "successful within a large care organisation to ensure a cultural change," the jury reports. You are also a member of the Supervisory Board of Total Care, member of the Advisory Board of the Central Administration Office, vice-president of the Board of the Association of Disabled Care Netherlands and vice-president of the Supervisory Board of KRO/NCRV. The "lifelong learning" adage certainly applies to you. In addition to your work, you also continued to learn your entire career. For example, you followed several executive programmes at Radboud University and Erasmus University in the Netherlands, but also at Harvard University and Singularity University in Silicon Valley in the United States. With your membership of the First Chamber for the CDA, you are setting foot in another area, politics. Once again, welcome, and we look forward to your further input. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my heartfelt congratulations to Mr Prins for her clear and heartfelt speech. Soon we will also wish Mr Nicolaï every success. Mr. Chairman. Our nature is under great pressure. Small Natura 2000 sites are threatened by excessive nitrogen emissions, causing nature to deteriorate and disappear. This puts pressure on biodiversity, as we can read almost every week in the media. Insects disappear, plant species become scarcer. Apart from the value that nature has in itself, the deterioration of biodiversity is also a threat to humans. Our country has relatively little nature. Including water it is 13% and excluding water it is only 7%. We are therefore in the tail group of European countries, but nitrogen emissions are the highest per hectare in all European countries: more than 50 kilos per hectare, where the European average is 15 kilos. And yet we have difficulty keeping emissions within the limits and complying with the rules that we ourselves laid down earlier. Once again, the judge, in this case the Council of State, had to draw our attention to the failing policy and its enforcement. That's not the first time. The same applies to CO emissions, the Urgendavonnis. It is not good for trust in the rule of law if the government does not comply with its own rules and should be pointed out by the judge. And that is not just the case here. Surely you can expect a government to abide by its own rules and to set a good example to citizens who control them in the enforcement of government regulations? Would the Minister like to reflect on that? Everyone is bound to abide by the law. It is precisely in the area of LNV that we often run into the limits that we ourselves have set, which then have to be re-maintained with the refinement of regulations, which creates a huge bureaucracy, but in fact indicates that we need to move towards a system change, which this minister recognises in her intention to achieve circular agriculture. This emergency law is also an example of policy that could have been prevented by the earlier use of a more extensive agricultural policy and a stronger environmental policy. Mr. Chairman. The decision of the Council of State on 29 May this year stopped the licensing of a number of projects, causing economic damage, but also making it impossible to initiate the necessary new building of houses. I'd like to talk to you about that first. We have a housing crisis in the Netherlands. Social housing is still being built only in a limited way, and the market for the sale is also seriously inadequate, so that many young people are forced to stay in small rooms or at home; Mrs Prins was just speaking about this. In addition, it is also a golden time for house milkers. The cabinet has now released 2 billion for the construction of housing, but then the nitrogen crisis comes and housing is in many places still. Mr. Chairman. According to the Council of State's ruling, construction contributes 0.6% to the nitrogen deposition, whereas it represents an enormous public interest. In fact, in many cases, new construction will produce major environmental and climate gains. We can therefore very well imagine that there will be thresholds precisely for construction. We are not yet convinced that the policy proposed in this emergency law can quickly lead to an improvement in the situation, particularly in South Holland, where housing is urgently needed, including in the coastal area. Threshold values are absolutely necessary for this. In replying to our questions on this subject, the Minister states that she intends to introduce thresholds. She has now asked for information from the Council of State. Last night, the minister said she wanted to fill it out regionally. This means that the thresholds will be higher where it can be and that the thresholds will be lower where the threat to nature is highest. The Minister refers to the new AERIUS calculation model, which should be able to clearly indicate what can and cannot be done. How sure is this model? Has it been applied before, I ask the Minister, so that we will not be faced with new legal complications again in a year's time. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Following the adoption of this emergency law, the cabinet intends to introduce a nitrogen registration system. We would like to see new rights for construction and nature only issued when the system is full of rights. I am referring to the 70% and 30% rules. But what does it include, for example, sustainable infrastructure that is needed to meet the climate objectives? Think of sustainable electricity supplies. Have they provided for this yet? Are these among the seven projects you mention in the infrastructure, or do they have to wait for the final measures? It appeals to us that we are now building a system that we are going to earn first and then spend. That is important, because then we will find ourselves in a PAS trap less quickly. We also welcome the government's intention to implement the Moorlag motion asking for absolute priority to be given to housing. The question is how long it will take to get the necessary authorisation back on track to help the really big projects. The most effective measure in the short term is the reduction in speed. When does this measure enter into force? Has the preparation been taken up yet? What are the costs? And how are they covered? A lot of signs will have to be removed and a lot of new signs will have to be placed. This also puts an end to an often very unclear application of the 100 km/h, 120 km/h and 130 km/h regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr Pijlman refers to the Moorlag motion adopted in the House of Representatives, which states that priority should be given to housing building in the case of the nitrogen space released. He said earlier in his speech that he saw a lack of social housing. He also talked about sustainable housing. Is Mr Pijlman also saying that if priority is given to housing, that in the first instance sustainable housing should be primarily intended for lower incomes and middle incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u102	Of course, that depends very much on the plans ahead, but I certainly like what you are saying. As far as we are concerned, we will have to build directly for lower incomes and middle incomes. That's where the need is the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u103	May I perhaps ask a question on the answer to Mr Koole's question? I understand that space can only be spent when space has been created. That's what you just argued. Therefore, only projects where sufficient area-oriented space has been created can be made available. There are plans for that. It sounds very nice that this should be social housing, but that is not what we are talking about here at all. And that's not what this law is about in any way, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u104	I referred to the motion for a resolution tabled and adopted on the other side of the House, which I understand the cabinet wants to implement. No, the nitrogen law is of course about something else, but it makes it possible for housing to resume. And yes, then we think that this should be taken directly for the lower incomes and the middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u105	My question was indeed about the last, if I may again, Mr President. I know the Moorlag motion. I have also asked myself if the cabinet is going to carry it out, and it is going to carry it out. In the space released, housing is therefore a priority. This priority is area-oriented and depends on where nitrogen space is created. That space is created for the plans that lie ahead of those areas. Then we decide as the First Chamber and then even the government doesn't decide whether homes are for the minimums or villas? That just depends on the plans that are in place in the areas where space is available, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u106	I don't understand what Mr. Van Gurp is trying to say. I have just argued that this depends on the plans that are immediately enforceable and that are in place. So yes, of course you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u107	I propose that Mr Pijlman continue his speech. Mr. Van Gurp, one last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u108	I responded because you went along with Mr Koole's suggestion, which asks something that sounds sympathetic, but I do not think it can be arranged here, because it is as you say now. It's about the plans that are there. We as the First Chamber don't care what's in those plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u109	That's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u110	That is indeed a repetition. I understand Mr Koole in such a way that he wants to encourage everyone to submit these plans as soon as possible, because that is what the country needs most. That was also the thrust of William Moorlag's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u111	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. The second measure taken by the government is to adapt animal feed by reducing protein, so that nitrogen emissions are reduced. The University of Wageningen advises on this. I understand that the cabinet believes that the new regime could enter into force in April. D66 has much more doubts about this measure. Are you sure it's effective? Is it feasible? And is it enforceable? Theoretically, the food ration for animals can be more protein neutral, but how does it work in practice? Is the animal feed industry, for example, which is financially supporting farmers in their actions, prepared to make the necessary adjustments? Will the individual farmer adhere to it or be able to comply with it? Then how do we register and maintain that? In advance, it seems to us to be a highly fraud-prone system which is difficult to implement and enforceable. What sanctions are there for industry and individual farmers if they do not comply with these new rules? We really regard this as an emergency measure, but we have seen it very often in agriculture and livestock farming. We are talking about a huge refinement of regulation, which creates a great deal of bureaucracy, is susceptible to fraud and also leads to a great deal of frustration on the part of farmers. For example, if you look at what is on the RVO site about the application of manure and phosphate rights for farmers, it is striking that they have to apply calculations for, mind you, twenty different types of cattle, such as grazing livestock, suckler cows, female young cattle, male young cattle, female young cattle over one year old, intended to become suckling cow, female young cattle under one year old, intended to become suckling cow, etc., etc. What do we do with this kind of bureaucracy to farmers and what do we do with it to the government, because it has to register, control and maintain what is quite impossible? I asked yesterday about the cost of this bureaucracy for both farmers and the government. You want to simplify the systems around manure. I would ask you to include a cost calculation. How much does it cost the individual entrepreneur and the government to keep these kinds of systems in the air? In short, however you turn or turn, if nature conservation and strengthening is our goal in accordance with the Habitats Directive, then we will not escape a reduction in livestock and the growth towards circular agriculture. We have put our heads in the sand for far too long. The Remkes Committee pointed out to us in the report that not everything can go side by side and that we must also make choices. We've postponed those choices too long. That is the choice you are making now when you propose to reduce livestock by means of measure 3 by cleaning up pig farming. In the coalition agreement, 200 million had already been earmarked for this purpose. The measure has now been implemented; farmers, I believe, can apply until 15 January. A further 60 million will be added to this package. Will this be added directly to the existing package or will a new regime be opened up again? We were talking yesterday about the average annual income of the pig farmers. The last year was €275,000. I certainly don't want to overdo it, because the year before it was €9,000, so you have to make it all available, but you said at that time that you are assuming €275,000 and the market value of the pigs at that time in the cleansing of the pig farmers. It is now very high because of the outbreak of African swine fever and the demand for meat in China in particular. What does this mean for the warm clean-up of pig farming? I believe you said yesterday that you expect that 7% to 10% could be the yield. What is then needed to achieve the necessary reduction in particularly sensitive nature areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u113	I should like to return to Mr Arrowman's call for a reduction in livestock. Yesterday, the Fertilisers Act was on the table. At that time we found that farmers deserve to be congratulated because they are clearly below the ceilings. Then why make an extra appeal now to use that reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u114	One doesn't rule out the other. I will come back later to farmers who are taking all kinds of measures themselves. But it will also be clear to the SGP that the way in which we deal with our agriculture and livestock farming in this very densely populated country, for various reasons, nature and environmental policy and animal welfare, is not sustainable and that there is no escape from reducing livestock levels if you place nature management and the environment at the centre, as the government does. That's what this bill says. The Minister now wants to remove between 7% and 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u115	The latter is true, but then it's about the warm clean-up. I actually heard in Mr Pijlman's speech that he wants to go far beyond the legislative proposal. I asked him why we would do that if we found that farmers are working very hard to comply with the ceilings we have set in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u116	I think it's a little confusing. I do not think the SGP claims that we can go on like this. Well, now it looks like you'll find it. By the way, all farmers who make a change themselves always deserve our support. Farmers who run into the borders of their farms and have a great deal of difficulty with all the regulations that have come after them in recent years deserve our support, but it cannot remain that way. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to ask the Minister when the final package from the cabinet will come. When does Remkes 2 reach us? I believe the final report would appear before Christmas. I understand now that it's been postponed. This is an emergency package. It is possible, the Council of State says, but it can be built into a total package. When's that gonna come to us? Mr. Chairman. Nature management and conservation and reinforcement are the aims of this package. A total of EUR 250 million will be allocated to the cabinet by means of a budgetary measure. Even after answering our questions on this subject, we are not sure how these resources are being used. It's been asked before. In the letters on this subject, the Minister states that she intends to act in consultation with the European Commission on the strengthening of Natura 2000 sites by merging or setting up new sites. Small and too vulnerable areas that have actually already been abandoned could then actually be abandoned. The Netherlands has now chosen the classification of our Natura 2000 sites, as was said yesterday. I believe that Secretary of State Bleker tried to do the same without success at the time. If that is true, why does the cabinet now think it can get the hands of the European Commission to do so? I'd like a response to that. Moreover, we can imagine that the first establishment of new areas and then the promotion of the merging or elimination of small areas may have some chance of success. Is that what the Cabinet is trying to do? Mr. Chairman. In order for this package to be successful, there is still a lot to be done after the adoption of this law. It is sensible that a number of amendments, including Mr De Groot, should include the intensive involvement of the two chambers in the follow-up and that the ministerial arrangements should also be submitted to this House in a pending procedure. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. It is unusual but in this case very desirable. What can we expect from the cabinet in the coming months, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, when dealing with manure legislation, I called for special treatment for farmers, such as organic farmers, who have themselves changed their business practices, thereby reducing the damage to nature and the environment. A good example of this is the farmers of Schiermonnikoog who have offered to achieve a significant reduction in their livestock, by 35%, by setting up their own cheese factory that uses the herbs that grow on the salt marshes. A wonderful initiative, also for the promotion of tourism. They see the harmful effects of nitrogen emissions in nature around them. They take on their responsibilities and want to move on to a different business operation. Are these initiatives financially supported by the Ministry? Many farmers who have already taken or wish to take measures themselves are distressed that they will soon be treated by the government with those who have not yet done anything and that they will have to reduce their livestock further, which puts pressure on their management. We think that is unfair. The Minister replied to my questions that she was considering introducing target rules for these farmers. I hope she will be able to explain that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u117	Now do I understand that Mr. Arrowman is a supporter of organic farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u118	I am also in favour of organic farming, but that is not the only thing. If we want to maintain a good, lively, also export-oriented agricultural and livestock sector, which you also advocated, organic farming is not enough. However, I do believe that the initiatives that exist, not only organic farmers but also farmers who seek to achieve circular agriculture, as the cabinet also advocates, should be supported in the conversion of their farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you to Mr Pijlman for his comprehensive answer. But I understand Mr. Pijlman is also a great advocate of nature. Is he aware that organic farming has a much greater impact on nature and climate? That could even go up to 70%. You need a lot more land for organic farming because the yield is much lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u120	Yes, more extensive agriculture does indeed cost more land to achieve the same yields. But if you put those revenues at the centre of your head, you will end up in a system that I believe is now stuck. Mr. Chairman. My question to the Minister is how the Ministry supports farmers who move towards organic or circular farming and livestock farming. Are there any arrangements for strengthening this type of farming, farming and livestock farming, especially in Natura 2000 areas? I would like the Minister to give us a promise that we will get a brief note of the instruments used to achieve this, so that we can follow that policy further. The cabinet has already made a move towards circular agriculture and part of this minister's budget goes there too. But I miss the overview, so it's hard to judge. Mr President, I shall conclude. As soon as possible, structural measures will prevent us from having to apply emergency laws more often and the courts will have to remind us of our shortcomings as a government. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u121	Thank you. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u122	Mr. Chairman. Hokus, pokus, pilate, pass, and gone are all permits. That's why we're here today to see if there's anything left to save with an emergency law. For example, I will consider and treat this proposal as an emergency law with a limited scope and no more than that. For the sake of clarity, this is not an excellent opportunity for the SP to drag something into politics, however strange it may be. We've been called, too. Who doesn't, I'd almost like to ask, but that would be sad for those who haven't been called. We, too, were called, and then we just reported it. We are concerned with the content of the law. And it's about getting what's good and stopping what's bad, as it should be for the First Chamber. Because this debate is essentially about construction workers who want to build houses, families who are waiting for those houses to move into them and farmers who want to stay farmers. This is about people and not about political gain. But we strongly support the need for urgent measures to re-launch housing. That is also where our priority lies. However, we have great reservations about the way in which this emergency law is being implemented. Mr. Chairman. Following the Council of State's ruling on the sustainability of the PAS, there is now an emergency law in place to partially reverse the consequences. That statement by the Council of State on the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen, so we can rest assured, could not come unexpectedly. Previously, the Council of State had expressed clear reservations about the legal sustainability of the law, in addition to the Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment and the Advisory Committee on Acceleration and Improvement of Decision-making Infrastructure. Once again, the Council of State is sending clear signals of doubt about the legal sustainability of the current emergency law. So the shots in front of the legal bow are clear. It remains a miracle for us on what arguments and what grounds the government believes this emergency law will stand up in law. The written answer has not yet convinced me. It looks a bit like a repetition of the arguments we were presented with in critical questions about the durability of the PAS. That would all be fine, too. So I would like to ask the Minister to make another attempt on this point. After all, if this emergency law does not last, a lot of valuable time will be wasted. It does not benefit the construction workers, the house-seekers, or the farmers. Mr. Chairman. What is the reason why we have not opted for an expiry date of this emergency act? Finally, it is an emergency link to relaunching activities and not a solution to the main problem of nitrogen, as the government itself points out. Wouldn't a duration of one year, for example, coupled with bringing into proceedings a law with permanent measures within that year, greatly increase the legal feasibility? The Council of State also points that out. It must be embedded. In such a situation, there could also be an adequate response to court rulings that affect the functioning of the emergency law, because then you can change something about that in the legislation that you are making at the time. The answer to this question, which I also put in writing, gave the answer that there is no need for temporaryity, because the emergency law fits within the broader approach. Yes, that's a bit of a chicken/egg reasoning, but it's about legal sustainability. Because that may be the case with regard to the purpose and approach, but why not take the main approach in parallel? In doing so, the government points out that these plans are there, but not yet concrete, and that they do not work in the short term. I therefore repeat my question in the light of the quality of the legislation, and thus the legal sustainability: is the government prepared to make a commitment on the temporary functioning of this emergency law? Or is it simply a political fact that the division in the coalition is so great that it lacks capacity for concrete measures that would actually bring about long-term success? Mr. Chairman. Following on from this previous point, does the government share the view of the SP that only what is necessary to enable work to be resumed should be regulated by the Emergency Act? Is it necessary to bring into force all the measures proposed in the emergency law, or can parts of that law not enter into force or otherwise be rendered ineffective in order to increase legal sustainability? Would it not be better for parts of the legislative proposal before us to be included in the parallel and equal process of legislation for permanent measures? Can the Minister indicate, for example, when the animal feed measures we have just heard D66 are very critical on this point, which can actually have a demonstrable effect, which the Council of State can also take into account when a case is presented? Is this not in the same way as the PAS, another advance taken by giving away space in anticipation of the actual effects? I hear the opposite from the government all the time, but what is the timetable in practice? Because if this measure only has a longer-term effect, it does not belong in the emergency law but in that parallel legislative process. After all, only measures which have a direct effect and whose effect is measurable and demonstrable should be included in the emergency legislation. I also heard the CDA being critical of the nitrogen, or at least making the remark, let me put it this way: it takes a long time for the nitrogen registration system to have an effect. That is measure two, out of the three or four of which we can ask what that will produce in the short term. So, as I just said, this applies, for example, to the cattle feed trail. So far, I've only heard farmers who don't see anything in it. Like several of you, I have been a member of an app group in which feelings are shared since 4:00 a.m. last night. I have heard very few positive noises about the cattle feed trail. I could have quoted one, but let's not do it for a moment because it might not quite fit into this house. If that has no effect in the short term, then it becomes a paper solution. Then let me add this. As a deputy, for many years the red and green hexagons flew around me every week in the AERIUS model. With every new version hexagons of colour, sometimes to joy, sometimes to disappointment, but always to amazement. The question is also how this is going to relate to thresholds. An unstable AERIUS system in relation to thresholds, however regional, how does that relate? Who's got priority over that? I would like a response from the Minister to these questions. Mr. Chairman. In order to enable Parliament to properly fulfil its role in this matter, it is only a mystery to me why, now that there is a heavy fronting procedure for the cattle transport track, which is regulated in the House of Representatives, there will not be a heavy fronting procedure on other points, such as the designation of categories of projects. This could increase the acceptance of the measure and improve its sustainability. In the written answer to this question, the Minister states that a heavy veil for this type of implementing regulation is not common practice. No, but that is also a very weak answer, with all due respect, because we are not dealing with a normal situation here either. The word emergency law already indicates that. We are asked, as the First Chamber, to wring ourselves into all sorts of corners in order to be able to enter an emergency law with steam and boiling water, which lacks an end date, the effectiveness is still unproven and the timetable is not fixed, and then, when extra care is required to take account of the unusually rapid treatment, the government has to claim that this is not common practice. I really do want a less arrogant response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I note that, as a solution, the emergency legislation is once again looking at how rules can be adapted in order to find solutions. I have asked the government in the written questions I have put to it to give an overview of the solutions that can be achieved with a financial contribution, such as increased commitment to nature protection and related values. I would like to be organized, as was my question, about effectiveness and degree of legal sustainability. All this in the light of the impact of this emergency law and its sustainability. The answer is that it is currently being mapped out which cost-effective nitrogen and nature measures can be taken, which results in nitrogen deposition and nature restoration and the budgetary impact of these measures. At a later date, the Cabinet will consider whether it is necessary and possible to release additional resources. So just for me in plain Dutch: we have no idea what works, what it costs and we don't know if we have money for that either. However, my question to the Minister is this: does she know this for the measures now in the emergency law? I would like to have a reasoned reply from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. There's no shortage of reading in the last few days. For example, the Planning Bureau for the Environment for the weekend just came up with an opinion on how to deal with the nitrogen problem. The essence of the advice is, as I have read it: take care of robust nature; make sure that nature is so robust that it can have a hit. My congratulations and congratulations on Mrs. Prince's contribution to her maiden speech. To her storytelling trend in "you'll only..." I'd like to add one. You will only be a party that supplies a secretary of state to a dowry cabinet, which breaks down nature by removing 70% of the resources (available) for the purchase of nature and is responsible for the introduction of the hocus-pocus-pilatus-PAS system. Of course I am talking about Secretary of State Bleeker in Rutte I, but also about the further elaboration and refinement of that model by the duo Samsom and Koopmans during Rutte II. Now this minister in Rutte III can solve the problems. The problem that there would have been with great probability, if we read the PBL advice, if we had used the available resources at the time to strengthen nature, as was foreseen, and to make it robust. My question to the Minister is whether she sees and reads this in the PBL opinion. Mr. Chairman. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the SP is at the forefront of the fact that construction workers can build houses again, that families can quickly move back into those houses and that farmers can farm. To make this possible, proven effective measures are needed in the short term, which can pass the legal test of the Council of State. That is the bar used by the SP in the assessment of this emergency law. The SP has very serious doubts as to whether the current emergency law, laid down along this measuring bar, will lead to a positive assessment. The written assessment could not remove that doubt, quite the contrary. And that doesn't help with a photo moment, a foreign commitment or any other promise. Mr. Chairman. A number of comments on the run-up to this debate. We previously had Mr Robesin who thought with a visit to the Tower to save the Hedwigepolder from destruction. And we had the group chairman of the SGP in the Lower House, Mr Van der Staaij, who often stayed in the rear seat of Prime Minister Rutte's service car. And now we have Mr Otten who, as Santa Claus, prematurely parked his arrenslee in front of the turret to put a present under the Christmas tree of the cabinet with a loud 'go, go, go, go, Merry Christmas', namely his support for this legally fragile emergency law. I am also very curious to see which parts of this House I am looking at, Mr Otten; that is so neatly verse of the present law or the written answer to the questions of this Chamber about this law were so unclear or incomprehensible that Mr Otten needed a separate session with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to understand them. Does he intend to include his fellow senators in his term later today, so that we too can better form our judgment? Because apparently convincing arguments have been exchanged there. By the way, the Minister of LNV wasn't in that conversation either, so she might find it interesting to hear it from you. I would also like to put the same question to Mr Van Rooijen. Can he explain to us how the problem of calculating interest contributes to solving the problem of nitrogen? I'm genuinely curious about that. Perhaps in his own contribution he would like to devote a number of sentences to this. Mr President, I am going to make you happy because I have one minute left in time. In the opinion of the SP, the only thing where construction workers, the families who want a roof over their heads and farmers are really helped to invest now in measures that have measurable effects and do not go down legally. That is why our assessment of this emergency law has so far been unabated, but we are obviously waiting for the Minister and Mr Otten to reply to us to see if any further attempt can be made to convince us of us wrongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u123	Thank you, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u124	Mr. Chairman. Apparently, I come as called after Mr Janssen. I will deal with that in a moment, but first I would like to congratulate Mrs Prins-Modern on her maiden speech. That seems to me to be even more important than what has just been said, although that is also important. Congratulations. I look forward to a good partnership. I wish Mr Nicolaï every success in his maiden speech after me. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Emergency Law on nitrogen, which states that this bill has already given rise to a great deal of controversy in the media and in society. This emergency legislation is based on two nitrogen statements on the Nitrogen Approach Programme, PAS, of the Council of State of 29 May 2019, which provided that the PAS should not be used as a basis for authorising activities that cause additional nitrogen emissions, such as road construction, housing and expansion of livestock farms. For on the basis of the PAS, therefore, prior authorisation was given in advance to the aforementioned activities which may be harmful to protected nature areas, assuming that future measures will have positive effects on those areas. This is contrary to the European Habitats Directive, which requires that it be established in advance that genuinely planned future measures will actually produce results. In short, because the PAS does not comply with the directive, it should not be used as a basis for authorising new activities. Mr. Chairman. As early as the 1980s, there was plenty of action against climate change. Trees threatened to turn brown or bald. Dead forests near our neighbors and dead fish in Scandinavia. Sour rain got the blame. Members of parliament went to work visits to the woods in Germany and to the Veluwe. There were debates. A government campaign was launched with the motto "Stop acid rain." And there were huge consequences for farmers and motorists, and the energy became more expensive. How recognizable. 35 years later, we're facing a much more worrying situation. Many actions, many debates and again many consequences for farmers, housing, motorists and also for the citizens' energy bill. Now that this year is coming to an end, it is time to look back briefly on the past year. A year with an incredible amount of attention to climate change, climate change, dwarfs and climate deniers. The climate case, in which the state's judgment following a cassation will follow next Friday, together with the judgments on nitrogen, will intensify the whole discussion. Many citizens of our country do not follow the pace of developments, proposals and plans, and 50PLUS understands those citizens. It's the biggest change of our time. Everyone has to deal with it, and that is precisely why it is important that we do this together: young and old, poor and rich, for- and opponents. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, more investment is needed in support and some temporalisation is important. We have to, but we don't have to do it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Up to 2050, step by step, that's our motto. This also raises the question: what have the parties who have carried out government responsibility over the past 35 years? Where were they all this time? Why hasn't the necessary changes started much earlier? Why are the citizens not much earlier and more involved and prepared? We could have been further on our way. Because, Mr President, now it feels like a robbery to a lot of people, with all the social unrest of that. Everyone's unhappy, everyone's angry. One says this is too little. The other says this is way too much. Protests at Schiphol Airport this weekend, Eindhoven Airport and also tomorrow there are actions again, even though his... so the judge has just decided not to allow.. blockades at distribution centers. Back to today, Mr. Chairman. With enormous haste, we need to deal with the E.R. approach to nitrogen, with the important reason that construction activities with very low nitrogen emissions can be restored in the short term. However, my group notes that the government has been aware since November 2018 of the fact that the support of the PAS was not valid. At that time, the European Court ruled that a government should only allow new activities if it is established in advance that the effects of the measures included in the PASs have a positive impact on protected natural areas. And what did the government then do in response to that ruling? Nothing at all! By sitting completely still, the chaos in society has now arisen as we now experience it. Large, almost weekly protests by farmers, a housing market that is locked up, stagnating housing for seniors, but also for starters, resulting in even higher price increases, making homes unaffordable. Bankruptcies threaten construction contractors and their suppliers and potentially huge damages claims. Slowly, even this cabinet is beginning to realize that it has to come up with solutions. Hence the current E.R. approach to nitrogen. But, Mr President, what exactly does this law mean? Will this fast-paced law really provide solutions in the short term? Or is it just an emergency in a hurry? By means of an artificial construction, the combination of the introduction of a threshold and a nitrogen registration system, the so-called nitrogen bank, where emissions are monitored, must be provided with sufficient nitrogen space in the short term to re-launch housing, road and water construction. In fact, administrative measures are being taken which go very much in the same direction as the Programmed Approach Nitrogen, which the European Court has already found not to comply with the Habitats Directive. It is not for nothing that the Council of State has already made very critical comments on measures such as introducing the nitrogen bank and thresholds, and certainly on its combination and its simultaneous use. I'd like a comprehensive response from the Minister. It should be made clear that the measure on reducing the nitrogen content of animal feed will not have any major effects either. This requires support from farmers, and low nitrogen feed must also be available and available, which is not the case at present. I'd like a response from the Minister. Can the Minister explain in detail the effects of the 100 km/h measure? Of course, my group is looking at the argument of national importance which has been put forward, but it must also look at the quality of legislation and its feasibility. My group has doubts about legal sustainability. Can the Minister elaborate on this? Mr. Chairman. I would now like to draw attention to the acute shortage of senior housing as part of the increasing housing shortage in our country. My group wants more insight into what construction activities can be started with this law in hand. As a result of our questions, the Minister states in the reply in the preliminary report that this is 75,000 homes by 2020. I ask the Minister where many houses of which type are being built. Does she want to respond to statements made by the alderman in The Hague, who says that this law doesn't help his municipality? He says housing can be built, for example, in the east of the country. 50PLUS wants to pay particular attention to the need to build senior homes. There is a poignant shortage of up to 50,000 to 100,000 homes, with all the consequences. If we can speed up the resolution of this problem, it will also ensure that the housing market is flowing and existing homes will be freed up for families and start-ups. I'd like a response from the Minister. Can the Minister elaborate on Article 5 (5a)? Because the Minister's answers to our questions in the note on last night's report have not convinced us yet. What does the Minister mean when she says that provinces and municipalities will see how possible criteria of prioritisation and reservation can be anchored in the scheme itself? Is the Minister already talking to provinces and municipalities about this? I'd like an answer. Finally, my group has the following questions. Can the Minister explain what she means by further consultation of the social field on the definition of criteria? To what extent can the cabinet itself be involved in the choice of construction projects? And to what extent can the Minister encourage priority to be given to building senior homes? That is an essential point for my group. What can the Minister promise? Mr President, I will conclude. In the longer term, the proposals put forward by the cabinet do not lead to a solution to the problem of nitrogen in the core for years to come. We await the Minister's response with particular interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Nicolaï has the floor for his maiden speech. But first there is an interruption by Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u126	Mr Van Rooijen was going to nod comfortably when I asked him this question in my term. Would he like to come back to the accounting rate and the problem of nitrogen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u127	Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u128	That's what we've been talking about so many times that I'm not always raving about it, but I'd like to head in on a foreplay. Of course, we never made a link. At the Financial Reviews with Minister Hoekstra, you will recall that I have tabled a motion to ask, also in response to a letter from 40 experts to investigate the calculation rate methodology and to set up a committee of inquiry for that purpose. That motion was modified once, and I arrested her twice. The cabinet had first dissuaded her and a week later, last Tuesday, I was asked in a second letter to hold the motion. That's what I did back then. The follow-up will be to ask the Social Affairs Committee this afternoon for the answers given three months later by the Minister on 25 pages on the pension agreement and the Parameters Committee on questions that we had asked, to open a procedure in committee to ask questions about all those answers that we received in January. Then I will also ask the committee to schedule a debate in February, on the basis of those answers, with Minister Koolmees on the answers we will have had by then. I assure you, that is where the interest rate motion will be discussed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you. I shall now go to Mr Nicolaï for his maiden speech. At least, Mrs. Faber. Very briefly, because we're running pretty out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u130	I think it is a rather strange answer from Mr Van Rooijen. His party leader, Henk Krol, said that in exchange for support for the emergency law, something must come back to the Senate and that the investigation of the interest rate, a wish of his party, will have to be carried out. So the question arises for me: does Mr Krol then speak nonsense, or our colleague Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u131	I've taken note of that statement. My group has a fixed line in this Chamber. During the course of the debate, we tabled a motion which was first dissuaded by the government. A little later, I was asked to hold on to that motion, which I did, so we will continue that process in the next one or two months. So, as I have just said, on the basis of the answers given by the Minister at the beginning of February to the questions which the committee is going to ask, I shall return to that subject this afternoon. To put it another way: the interest rate motion of November was already in place at that time and was, of course, separate from the debate that was not even discussed in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u132	Let's get on with it. You can in your second term... Mrs Faber, then a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u133	But who speaks the truth, Mr. Krol or Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u134	Only the chairman of this group can take the floor in this Chamber. That's what I've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u135	Clear. Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Nicolaï has the floor for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd already gotten up twice to come here, but I never got the chance. Yet I was quite happy with the interventions of my two fellow members, because it's all about the match fixing that is going on here, on which I'll come back in my maiden speech. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs. Prince. I listened with interest to her contribution. I shall come back to that later, but I think we will certainly be able to find each other on a certain point. I also congratulate the fellow Members who gave their maiden speech yesterday. Then I wasn't there because I had to prepare this maiden speech and it was all rush-happiness. I didn't sleep much either, because last night I had to read the Minister's letter, which I had to incorporate into my speech this morning. Then I get my story, Mr. Chairman. How appropriate it would not be to begin here, the first time I have sat on this chair, with regard to........................................................................................................................................................................................ But I would like to stress that this is a very different owl from that which has inspired other political debutants. Together we form the chambre de réflexion. Unlike on the other side, where fast birds pop in and out, this Chamber expects us to reflect with a capital letter, in peace and wisdom, that we are able to distance ourselves from the political delusion of the day. The members of the Chamber who know me from the committees know how serious I think about our task. I believe that we should carefully review the quality and feasibility of legislation. Now, Mr President, today I have to discuss an emergency law here, when we have hardly had the time and opportunity to examine it carefully. It seems as if the cabinet wants us not to look at the proposal too long. Now or never! A law that was accompanied by lovely offers. Each group could receive gifts in exchange for support to these laws. Political cow business, match fixing as a flight forward. Mr Janssen pointed that out. Late last night, we only received the note following the final report and, of course, questions were not answered or not answered satisfactorily as a result of all this urgency. It is clear from the urgency which the Minister seems to be able to put forward that we were only attacked last night with her letter, which she could have sent days earlier. And why, would my question be to the Minister, did we only receive that letter last night? And this is a so-called emergency law that has no urgency whatsoever. It's an emergency law that I'm going to refer to as "Ghost Law Three Times Nothing." Is this the care you expect in a chambre de réflexion? I am a little disappointed when I first introduced myself to you as fellow senators. The match fixing by the Rutte cabinet has already made me an illusion poorer. I thought this would be a careful review of legality and feasibility. Mr. Chairman. It is also my first acquaintance with the Minister of LNV. She sits there manly, or is it now feminine or manly? She must be courageous, because you will only be a coordinating minister for the PAS and the nitrogen problem. What a disaster, that PAS, and the untruthful attitude of previous ministers, who pretended to be legally correct, when they knew better. And now this minister has to come up with something that can go through the legal ram of the environmental organizations, with an arrangement that can also be graced in the eyes of the Council of State. In the explanatory memorandum to the Ghost Act, three times, the government talked with much aplomb about the introduction of a national threshold: a legally extremely fragile PAS-partout if you do not take the measures required by the Council of State. Apparently, the fear of a new legal debacle has struck the Ministry, because last night we were suddenly told that there was no such thing and that they are first'searching' for the possibility of working with a regional threshold. That's the sting from the design. But is that helping society? Can construction plans now be implemented again in the coming years? That's what this Ghost Act was all about, isn't it, like, three times nothing? The way the Minister should have taken to really help society has been paved by the Council of State. Restore the nature reserves as soon as possible. Let us not forget that the Habitats Directive's obligations are effectively met. But the Minister doesn't. So the so-called emergency law must be undressed in order to prevent a new legal debacle. This cabinet of non-cooperatives has thought it necessary to buy time, to pretend that solutions are being offered, but has de facto come up with a fake law that has been flanked together by decor builders and clean appearances without legal substance. Mr. Chairman. As a lawyer and lecturer of administrative law, I find it quite disconcerting that a law of this level can be passed by this house. Never could I have thought that I should have made my maiden speech in this house in a debate about a ghost law that was also fixed. Mr. Chairman. Why has the government not yet submitted a plan of concrete measures to restore nature reserves, rather than vague commitments on a budget for such measures? Last night's letter uses empty language again: "The cabinet opts for a more robust and realistic nature policy. In doing so, the cabinet is critical of current policy." "I will work with the provinces to see how the implementation of nature policy can be improved," says the Minister proudly. That's it? Why hasn't the government linked to the Ghost Act three times to an arrangement that allows farmers to buy out decently? Mr Pijlman has already spoken about the reform of pig farming, which is not such a regulation. If this regulation is to be stored and not just what is written about in the correspondence, then it can be seen that it only applies in certain areas and only in the case of too high a scent score, another bureaucratic concept that Mr Pijlman mentioned. It is therefore not a general scheme which provides for a reduction in livestock. I had hoped that D66 would argue for this too, but that too is apparently fixed. Mr. Chairman. With measures such as a reduction of livestock on the basis of a decent regime, it would be possible to introduce a legally sustainable threshold regime that is waiting for the Netherlands to build and enterprising. I will now come to Mrs Prins' contribution, because it will also enable you to get to work faster than with a bureaucratic nitrogen registration system. I must say that I am very shocked by what Mr Pijlman has read to us about the bureaucracy that farmers are dealing with. If there is such a good arrangement for farmers, then farmers will have the certainty of a warm clean-up and not the feeling that they are abandoned by society, the bank and the farmers' parties. If that path is followed, the concerned citizens who want a viable environment for their children and grandchildren will see that steps are taken in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. With the PAS in the place that the minister now makes, builders, farmers and citizens remain in the cold. Indeed, three times nothing is the message of this so-called emergency law. The man-made attitude that we could expect from this minister has faded to the courage of despair. It seems to be ground up in the struggle for interests in a government that claims to have money left over, but does not appear to be prepared for the structural and far-reaching measures that the next government will not be able to escape. But then who lives, who cares. Mr. Chairman. The decisions on nature restoration are being trained. The decision on the threshold regime remains in the air. How we should deal with the projects that have been illegally continued since the Council of State ruling, we still need to be told. Waiting for advice from the committee led by super firefighter Remkes, but he is also busy putting out other fires. What does the Minister have to offer the builders? There is no doubt that in the west all construction projects cannot yet be easily carried out with the so-called nitrogen registration system. "In the coastal region in particular, borders may be reached more quickly, given the large housing demand and the limited space available for additional nitrogen deposition on the sensitive nature," the Minister says in response to my questions. I could read that answer last night. This is not difficult to understand either, because animal feed measures and the rehabilitation of pig farms do not, of course, provide sufficient deposition space in the western part of the Netherlands. Moreover, the little bit of space that is realized with the Ghost Law three times nothing will have to be used first to legalise the no less than 3,637 illegal projects that have been pursued after the Council of State ruling. Builders, farmers and citizens, they are sent into the deadly forest with a lack of law and a senseless deposition registration system that will not produce what they need in the coming year, i.e. until the next elections to the House of Representatives. I wonder which of the fellow senators who vote in favour of this law will be able to say that three times he has not carefully assessed the Ghost Law for legality, quality and feasibility, as Members of this House may expect. Mr. Chairman. I had a dream! Last night I had a dream. As a 6-year-old boy, I jumped through the meadow with a girl. I remember her name, Ellen Vee. It was a real meadow as I knew it, when I jumped around hand in hand with my twin sister among the flowers, bees, flies and cow pies. Now I walked hand in hand with that girl. We had a lot in common; we both took sides for the animals. We breathed deeply, there in that real nature. Only healthy air! How happy I jumped there. But my darling jumps slowed down when it dawned on me that my animals lived a lot happier and longer than the girl's. The dream that began so idyllically became more and more disturbed. Suddenly I woke up when a very low airplane sounded like a buzzing plane. And when I looked closely at the horizon, where I thought I saw beautiful forests, it turned out to be cranes of protesting construction companies. And images of farmers' tractors raging through the shopping streets of The Hague forced themselves on us. And then there are environmental activists who seem to have blocked intersections. Yes, Mr. Chairman. If the government comes up with a ghost law that doesn't solve anything three times, gets out of the way of structural interventions and leaves builders with the misery, doesn't give farmers the prospect of a solution and citizens who stand up for a viable planet for their children and grandchildren in the cold, is it weird that society feels abandoned and there are going to be scenes that you'd rather not dream about? Is it not understandable, then, that climate marches take place in order to guide the path to be taken? Besides ghost laws, we also know ghost riders. The opinion polls already show that the ghost riders of this government are also paid for their insane decisions and their boundless indecision even if they drive only 100 km/h. The Party for Animals does not pretend to have wisdom in rent and does not set the owl of Minerva against the idol Transition. Yeah, it takes a transition. That is something that farmers, citizens and outsiders can feel on their clogs. That transition has nothing to do with climate madness, but with the realization that a transition that occurred after the Second World War must be reversed. An economic system and a culture of man as a fat self who thought he could stand above the other mammals and living nature have transformed the natural pastures and forests with their biodiversity that I still knew as a child into lifeless rai grass deserts and languishing forests in a few decades. Mr. Chairman. It is not a time for dreams, but for radical and structural measures. The fable newspaper is out, the owl has flown for lack of a natural landscape. A Ghost Law three times nothing and a letter from the Minister full of empty and buttery plans is, in the eyes of the Animal Party, a runaway for the responsibility that the government should take towards builders, farmers and citizens and a missed opportunity to do something about the viability for our children and grandchildren and all other living nature. I call on the cabinet to turn to half rather than to wander, but I fear that this appeal to deaf ears will be directed, now that the cabinet seems to focus on one's own survival, at the expense of the survival of animals, nature and the environment and future generations. Mr. Chairman. Let us hope that the upcoming elections will lead to less match fixing and more ideals! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u137	Mr. Nicolaï, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After studying Dutch law at the University of Amsterdam, you obtained your PhD in Administrative Process Law at the same university. In the meantime, you were already working as a lecturer and later associate professor of Administrative Law, which you stayed until 2018. You were at the cradle of the study of Environmental Law at the University of Amsterdam. From 1989 to 2004, you were also Professor of Public Law at the Open University. You've been a lawyer since 1985. For the last 15 years, you've had your own office. You were given name recognition as a lawyer by journalist Willem Oltmans and later by Princess Margarita and Edwin de Roy van Zuydewijn. It is striking from your life that you have never determined one profession. For example, you were a freelance journalist for Vrij Nederland, De Groene Amsterdammer, the VPRO and De Nieuwe Line, and you are a publisher of your own photobooks. As chairman of the Willem Oltmans Foundation, you are committed to publishing Oltmans' diaries and awarding the Willem Oltman Prize for independent journalism. The Fondo Desaroyo Aruba Foundation has involved you in the design of legislation for the country of Aruba. You advised in the modernisation of labour law and a country regulation General rules of administrative law. Since the Oltmans case, you told us a few years ago, you know how vulnerable citizens can be. And that they must be protected from the, I quote: "unbridled power of the government." I imagine this has also been your motivation to move to politics. Since 11 June, you have been a member of the First Chamber on behalf of the Party for Animals. You once said that your dissertation was about, and I quote again: "the principles of good governance. There is governance, politics and politics, but also justice and morality. Where that comes together, for me as a scientist and attorney lies my greatest interest." The same angles come together in the First Chamber. You can now add the profession of parliamentarians to your curriculum vitae. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members can congratulate you and Mrs Prins-Mudderaar. I would ask you, Mr Nicolaï, and Mrs Prins, to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations, and I congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u139	I give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a very important subject today, but before I begin, I would like to congratulate Mrs Prins and Mr Nicolaï on their maiden speech. We were actually talking about this important issue yesterday, namely how we can take concrete steps to protect climate and the environment. The disappointing results of the Madrid Climate Summit show that much remains to be done. This also shows the ambitious plan for a Green Deal from the European Commission. The European Commission did indeed come up with proposals very quickly, I repeat, Mrs Prins. We would have liked to have seen this government do the same. I also made a few comments on this yesterday in the debate on the Fertilisers Act. We can't sit on our hands. We cannot do that with the problem of housing shortage. The housing market is very overstretched and housing is badly needed. This is particularly true for affordable and sustainable housing for lower incomes and middle incomes. And for this it is necessary that the granting of building permits get back on track. According to the PvdA Group, this authorisation is of great importance, but the restoration of natural values is equally important. The government notes that virtually all Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands suffer from a severe nitrogen overload. Last night, very late, we received a letter of progress from the Minister on the approach to the problem of nitrogen, the core of which, according to the government, is 'working fully to restore and strengthen nature and reduce the problem of nitrogen'. The question we need to answer after this plenary debate on the emergency law is whether the legislative proposal strikes the right balance between the two objectives, housing on the one hand and nature restoration and conservation on the other, and whether this balance is adequately enshrined in legislation and commitments in this debate. My group, like most of the others in this Chamber, has asked written questions about the bill and we thank the government for its response. This has clarified some of the issues, but sometimes raised questions. I would like to bring it up here. First of all, the term "happiness" in the name of this bill. We have heard dramatic calls over the last few weeks to vote in favour of this law, because otherwise people in construction will be unemployed under the Christmas tree. The prevention and fight against unemployment is a social democrat. But that Christmas tree? In answering the questions, we read that the adoption of this bill would allow the nitrogen registration system for construction to enter into force immediately, i.e. from 1 January 2020. However, this does not mean that licences can be issued on the basis of that system. It means that as a result of the entry into force of that scheme, which is also called the nitrogen bank, it can then be filled with nitrogen deposition space and the more deposition space there is in that system, the more likely that permits can be issued. Does the government agree with this statement? By the way, who is competent to extract nitrogen from the nitrogen bank, the Empire or the province, I ask the Minister? According to the reply, the deposition space can only be filled by measures whose effects have been determined. That is a good thing, my group believes. It must therefore be truly convincing that specific measures effectively reduce nitrogen deposition if that nitrogen bank is to be able to fill itself. The first measure, according to the government, is the speed limit for motorways, which is not regulated by this legislative proposal. The effects of these measures are to be expected at the earliest in mid-March. The second measure is that of the cattle feed track, which is included in this legislative proposal. In terms of efficiency, this measure is difficult to monitor and enforcement is also very intensive. Can the Minister indicate how she intends to organise this enforcement? It is also not certain, as we understand it, that the measure will continue, because it will require a notification procedure with the European Commission. And if there were no bumps on the road, this proposal should also be put forward in both Chambers of our Parliament. Together, that lasts at least four months, so we're in May. The effects of a third specific measure, which is also included in the legislative proposal, concern the reorganisation of pig farming. The government says it'll take some time. How much time, so I ask the Minister. On this basis, my group concludes that in any case, in the first three or four months of next year, no or hardly any filling of the nitrogen bank is to be expected. Does the government share this assessment? This means that the first permits based on the built-up nitrogen deposition space could only be granted at the earliest at the end of March, beginning of April next year. Does the government agree? Actual work on the basis of the newly granted permits is likely to start even later. Christmas trees have been replanted in the garden or processed in a biomass plant for a long time. In this respect, it may not be possible to issue a very large number of permits, because the measures currently envisaged will certainly reduce nitrogen deposition only by reducing the speed limit. Why has it not been tried to apply this regime of 100 kilometres per hour to all motorways, my group is still not clear. Can the Minister explain that one more time? The urgency of the problem is high and then all small bits help. Speaking of which, does the Minister intend to maintain specifically at 100 km/h? Because if that does not happen, there will be no less nitrogen deposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u141	Mr Koole explained that the measures proposed in the emergency legislation would take a long time to actually enter into force. Does Mr Koole not agree with me that this is precisely a reason to adopt this law as soon as possible, so that we lose as little time as possible? We know that it is going to take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u142	We are in favour of adopting a law that works quickly, but we need to know that it really has the desired effects. I will then have a number of questions about this in a moment. We have some doubts about that. Hopefully the Minister can take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u143	I assume that Mr Koole does not see the fact that it is still some time before the measures can actually work as a reason to vote against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u144	These measures need to be launched quickly, provided they work and are also embedded in a package of measures that the Council of State is talking about, so that they can be legally sustainable together. So yes, speed is required, but a good set of measures that will make it work. I was talking about the nitrogen bank. The next question is: has the government considered having that nitrogen bank also filled regionally by measures resulting from the territorial approach? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. In the written questions put by the PvdA Group, several additional measures have been proposed, and I have just mentioned them, in order to help the government achieve results more quickly, precisely because of the urgency of the matter. One of them, the execution of the motion of fellow party member Moorlag adopted in the Lower House, takes up the government. Our group welcomes that. It means that it has been promised that a ministerial arrangement will provide for priority use of the nitrogen space released for housing. Housing is thus also given priority over the seven MIRT projects which the government also wants to see implemented. For the construction of the 75,000 homes in 2020, other projects will therefore be necessary. Does the Minister recognise himself in the presentation of this commitment? Can the Minister also promise that this ministerial arrangement will be established before March 2020, so that it will be in force when the first permits will be granted on the basis of the built-up nitrogen deposition space? And does the Minister assume that these 75,000 new homes must be sustainable housing, which are intended in the majority for lower and middle incomes? We had a little debate on this earlier this morning with Mr Pijlman and Mr Van Gurp. Because for those lower and middle incomes, the overstretched housing market is the worst. Would the Minister like to discuss this with the VNG and perhaps also with the housing corporations? I say this to Mr Van Gurp, because I understand that the Minister cannot regulate this at national level; but you can encourage the Minister to enter into these discussions. For other additional measures suggested in our written questions, the answers are unfortunately less concrete. The idea of a scheme whereby farmers are paid compensation for temporary vacancy of stables, also expressed in a Moorlag motion adopted in the Lower House, is 'examined'. And on the suggestion that, in the short term, profits can be made by providing additional resources for the implementation of a warm clean-up, not only of pig farming, but also of dairy and calf farming in the context of an area-based approach, the government responds that there will be a 'exploration'. These answers are a pity to my group, if not too careful. Can the Minister show a little more ambition and act as a matter of urgency? Can she indicate when the investigation and the reconnaissance will be completed? In response to another suggestion, the cabinet says that it will soon decide, before 1 February 2020, on the taking of animal and/or phosphate rights in relation to external netting. What is the government's commitment to this? What is the Minister's view that this decision should be taken in what direction? All these additional source measures see for a rapid reduction in nitrogen emissions. That is essential, for nature and for housing. In addition, measures are needed to restore nature, says the Planning Office for the Environment. The budget of EUR 250 million is important and the PvdA welcomes this. But this is a one-time sum, which will be deployed where the fastest natural gain is to book. Nature, however, is so bad that for a longer term additional investments in nature are needed in the opinion of the PvdA Group. The restoration of nature and biodiversity is a long-term issue and therefore requires rapid action that is sustained for a long time. It's gonna take extra money. And that is why we asked the government, in writing, to make structural money available for nature conservation and restoration, in accordance with another Moorlag motion adopted in the House of Representatives. That question hasn't been answered. While the letter received late last night states that the government will decide on multi-annual investments for nature and biodiversity by 2020, a decision can go in all directions. I therefore ask the Minister to answer our written question. Our group is concerned about the intention set out in the letter of 13 November to identify the possibilities for merging and redefining areas. Can the Minister confirm that it is not intended to reduce the total size of protected areas? After all, we already have far too little protected nature in this country. Actions aimed at strengthening and connecting Natura 2000 sites are welcome, and these additional structural resources for nature conservation and restoration would also be desirable. Does the government agree? Mr. Chairman. Everything depends on the legal sustainability of the proposals. No one wants a repeat of the PAS-debacle. In reply to the written questions it is more clear than hitherto that the effects of measures will only be included in the nitrogen bank if those measures and those effects are actually established. I think that's the right approach. But who decides when these effects are actually fixed, I ask the Minister. Authorisation should not prejudge the determination of such fixed effects. If the determination of securities is contested, can formal objections be raised or a counter-expertise requested? The government is right to say that no more nitrogen space can be used than is actually present in the nitrogen bank. After the PAS-debacle, that is only natural, I hope. In this context, the government suggests that as a condition for the use of the nitrogen registration system it is required that the entrepreneur himself takes measures that minimise nitrogen emissions, such as the use of electrical equipment during the construction phase. Can the Minister indicate how this is monitored and enforced? The cabinet intends, as we read in the reply, to inform this Chamber of the possibility of setting a threshold in the short term. Together with the provinces, this is looked at. Does this mean that, as a result of this legislative proposal, a nitrogen bank will first be set up and, if necessary, a system with thresholds will then be established? The nitrogen registration system is intended to remove the permit for construction, the government states. If that objective had been achieved, it would be examined whether this system would be deleted. Is it only then that a possible system with thresholds is involved? Why is it not awaiting the inclusion in a legislative proposal of the possibility of a system of a threshold until authorisation has been withdrawn by the nitrogen bank or at least until a detailed proposal has been made by the Empire and provinces? Now the Chamber is asked to adopt a legislative proposal which includes the possibility of a threshold, while the Council of State is quite critical of this instrument and lacks a detailed proposal? In the letter received yesterday, the choice was made for a regional threshold. Our group shares this choice. However, before a regional threshold can be introduced, it is first necessary to create "dust space," the Minister writes in the letter. Can the Minister guarantee that the effects of measures to be taken will also apply to this nitrogen space before these effects can fill this nitrogen space? Finally, Mr President. A fundamental rethink of the scarce nitrogen space is needed, writes the cabinet in yesterday's letter. Our group supports the need for this rethink. But the urgency of nature conservation and restoration measures is high and requires, at the same time, rapid and long-term action to tackle the problem of nitrogen. This also increases the ability to build sustainable and affordable housing again quickly. The members of the PvdA Group therefore look forward to answering their questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u145	Thank you, Mr Koole. Mrs Huizinga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u146	Thank you, Mr President. My group is pleased that we are dealing with this emergency law today. It has demanded a great deal of commitment, time and willingness from us as First Members of Parliament, but also from the Minister and its officials. But now we are able to treat this law properly. My group also considers it important to speed up this law because of the social unrest that has arisen around farmers and builders. This emergency law provides an insight into the detachment of housing. The cabinet focuses on enabling the construction of 75,000 homes and carrying out seven MIRT projects. This is not only important for our economy and for the maintenance of the construction companies. It is also important in the privacy of people who are afraid of losing their work in construction. This law is important for people from especially middle and lower income groups who are waiting for a home and cannot buy anything in the current housing market. This law gives the beginning of a solution. In addition, the law gives opportunities to accelerate work on nature recovery. Mr. Chairman. Many have already referred to the opinion of the Council of State on this law. My group reads in that opinion the critical remark that this emergency law cannot be the only response to the nitrogen crisis. This law can serve as a first step in a more comprehensive path to healthier nature and less nitrogen emissions. My group is therefore keen to hear from the Minister how she sees the further approach to nitrogen emissions. The Minister said to wait for the advice of Remkes' Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems, to implement it and to consult with all kinds of bodies and administrative bodies in order to reach good agreements. That is certainly all important. Furthermore, I would also like to hear whether industry would be able to see in future the reduction of nitrogen emissions, because we are still missing them in this plan. My group would like to hear from the Minister the draft structural approach. Is it prepared to set a final target for nitrogen emissions and healthy nature? Can it also mention a time when that objective should have been achieved, with intermediate targets measurable on the road? Such a structural approach provides a basis and prevents us from going back into a situation such as the present one in the future. This is also in line with the opinion of the Council of State. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another point is the 250 million set aside for nature restoration, a very substantial amount. My group welcomes it. I would like to hear how this money is going to be used to bring about the restoration of nature and at what time the government intends to spend it. Can the Minister give an estimate of what this investment could yield in concrete terms to nature recovery? The amount, however large, is occasional. It still breathes something like a snap policy. Would a structural objective such as healthy nature no longer benefit from an annual structural amount? Policy can be made on the basis of such an amount. My question is whether the Minister sees this as true and whether she will be committed to a structural approach to achieving healthy nature. Mr. Chairman. Now to the emergency law itself. This has to be seen in conjunction with other measures, such as reducing the maximum speed to 100 km/h and an additional 60 million for the restructuring of pig farming. The law is intended to lay a legal basis for action that the government may take. It is not certain, and since last night we know that it is not going to happen either, that a national threshold will be set, but the law allows for such a threshold, for example a regional one. The requirements of the cattle transport track still need to be notified to the European Commission. The Minister hopes to have that around in April. These are all measures that may be taken in the future or that may be effective in the future. But when the law is passed, the nitrogen registration system for construction will be used immediately from 1 January to have the actual nitrogen space in an area clear, we understand. Is that right? The registration system is subject to strict conditions. For example, the proposed reduction in emissions should be additional to regular nature conservation and restoration measures and the nitrogen space should only be used in one place. Among other things, these conditions make the system legally sustainable, writes the Minister. It is clear that the Minister does not want to fall into the trap where the PAS broke. It does not want to give room for new projects until it can be measured by reducing nitrogen emissions. Do not anticipate the effectiveness of the measures, but only act when the measures are in force and the effectiveness has been shown to be effective. That seems to us to be a good approach. This means that the purpose of this law, the possibility of 75,000 homes and seven MIRT projects, is not certain. It will depend on the actual reduction in nitrogen emissions, how many permits can be granted. Is that indeed the situation, I ask the Minister. And another question: is it legally possible to apply both a nitrogen threshold and a nitrogen registration system in the air? Or should we choose between these? The answer to this question did not make this quite clear to me. Nitrogen drops locally. In answering the questions, the Minister warns that the effects of the law can therefore also vary locally. How does the Minister deal with the potentially skewed eyes when there are more housing opportunities in one region than in the other? Does she have a solution or should we be with the Home Secretary to hear more about that? My group welcomes the attention given to nature recovery in the emergency law. Faster decision-making to bring about recovery measures through the Crisis and Recovery Act and 30% of the extracted nitrogen space to nature, to name a few measures. In a different context, a possible redeployment of small Natura 2000 sites has been discussed in order to create more robust Natura 2000 sites; others have already asked questions about this. This requires discussions in Europe. Can the Minister reflect on the probability of these talks? Finally, Mr President. The nitrogen crisis is an extremely complex subject. It affects the jurisdiction of our three levels of government. There are many stakeholders and stakeholders and countless legal and societal hooks and eyes. In this difficult field, this emergency law is, as far as my group is concerned, a good one and, in Mr Nicolaï's words, a courageous step towards achieving our common goal: a thriving economy and a thriving nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First the congratulations to colleagues Prince and Nicolaï; very different contributions, but therefore not less valuable though? Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing the Cabinet is coming up with this emergency bill. Our country is in great uncertainty and confusion. This uncertainty and confusion affect not only the building world, but also agriculture and nature organisations. It affects all of us. This uncertainty has major economic consequences. Moreover, it causes social unrest. It even has emotional consequences for people who are affected by it now. I had here "the failure of the PAS," but I am going to change that into: we have all experienced the failure of the PAS. We must also look in the mirror, because the government has allowed it to last six to seven years, and now we are going to reap the wretched fruits of it. It is time for a recovery, and for that this emergency law is an attempt, and I hope a very good attempt. A legal debacle could be this emergency law. I have three concerns: legality, feasibility and enforcement, precisely those parts for which we are here. It has always been mentioned by 13 parties so far: is it feasible, is it legally sound? You can question that very seriously, and that's what we did here. Our colleague Van Gurp says: I do not think it will work. I love the nuance he's presented to us. Hardly anyone in this Chamber can say: that's how we do it and that's not how we do it. There is a difficult choice to make, and I therefore ask our Minister once again to address these three aspects: legality, feasibility and enforcement. Take the cattle feed trail. How are you gonna maintain that? How are you gonna look at that? I have concerns about this with you, but there is a great other general interest: this country is in danger of being locked up and something must be done. Mr. Chairman. I am now going to mention two things that have been less important. I'm trying to be short. I would like to draw particular attention to organic farmers on this issue. Mr Pijlman of D66 mentioned them. I also said yesterday, when he came up with that, that I would come up with it today. They have no part in this problem. In fact, they point the way towards future-proof and sustainable agriculture. Surely it is not possible for these forerunners to be affected by the measures of this emergency law? Of course, I would like to look forward to the motion announced by Pijlman, at least there he talked about "to put money into circular organic livestock farming." I'll back that up. That's what I'm gonna ask him for. The second point, Mr President, is housing. It is extremely important to all of us, because there is a crisis. I will support this emergency law, in particular to unlock housing in this country. But who will build these houses and where? One of the most important parties is the housing corporations, which are severely disadvantaged by this cabinet and also by the previous cabinet. In 2013, the landlord levy was introduced. 1.7 billion is withdrawn from the sector. The cabinet wants this law, the cabinet wants to build 75,000 houses a year; I just thought I heard 7,500, but that must have been a slip. The corporations can build about 40% to 50% of that number. How can the government on the one hand want this law to make it all work and, on the other hand, frustrate the solution by the corporations? The landlord's tax has to go away. I call on the Cabinet to leave this astray. Mr President, I will conclude. The restoration of nature is very important to me. Perspective for agriculture? This country can't live without it. The construction of houses must be able to start as soon as possible. That is why I will advise my group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u149	Thank you. Finally, before lunch, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mrs Prins and Mr Nicolaï for their beautiful maiden speeches. A comment in the direction of Mr Janssen: indeed, in the back seat of Mr Van der Staaij, but that was in 2010 and what they were discussing is of course not known, but at least it is certain that it was not about this law. Mr. Chairman. I have already said in the General Political Reviews that our country is closing by legal procedures. The production of nitrogen is literally and figuratively out of step, with the result that construction stops, thousands of jobs are at stake and farmers are threatened in their survival as they produce more sustainably than their colleagues abroad. If there's something locked, there's only one thing that's relevant: where are the keys? The government is trying to open the lock with a few keys with the emergency bill that is before us today. The government wants to take some measures to reduce nitrogen taxation, including a possible reduction in nitrogen content in animal feed. For that, this law offers a coat rack. Additional keys are needed, such as a nitrogen registration system or a threshold, for which the law also provides a coat rack. This creates room for 70% to be used to detach from the authorisation of construction activities. The remaining 30% benefits nature. There is a lot to be said about the package of measures. An example. If you have to remove the theoretical deposition increases of housing projects, all in all, on average 0.3 moles, against the reduction in deposition by speed adjustment of an average of 1 mole per hectare per project against a background deposition of 2,000 moles, what are we doing? Indeed, the measures for the agricultural sector, such as the reduction of nitrogen emissions from livestock and manure through animal feed measures and the reduction of nitrogen deposition by the subsidy scheme, are far more significant. In the light of the explanatory memorandum, the Emergency Act aims to eliminate housing and infrastructure projects. I understand that, but another sector that also needs space for sustainable business development is the agricultural sector. At the moment, netting is actually the only option for them. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has great difficulty in creating obstacles to this. The sector should be able to deliver, but there is really no other way. For example, the introduction of latent licensing space in internal netting, while companies have partly paid for it, undermines legal certainty. The imposition of production rights in external netting is a huge threshold for the application of this instrument, while it has little to do with the problem of nitrogen. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers that to be very one-sided. What possibilities does the Minister see for reconsidering these obstacles? Or is it at least an option not to pursue the imposition of production rights on external netting? Mr. Chairman. The fraction of the SGP has serious doubts about the nitrogen calculations. Traffic projects stop calculating after 5 km, because depositions down the road are not meaningfully reduced to an individual project. That's right. But who amazes me that in construction and other projects, the calculation model only stops at 0.005 moles, and is therefore counted to a great distance? That's double standards, isn't it? In the written comments I asked for the scientific justification of that 0.005 mole. I haven't gotten it yet. I'd still like to receive that support. In my view, there is every reason to apply this sober approach to traffic to other emissions. Why isn't that happening? Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also calls for attention to be paid to the Natura 2000 sites. A legal tangle becomes more pleasing when we arrange at the front that not everything counts so heavily. The Cabinet will review all designation decisions on targets that do not directly result from the Natura 2000 Directives and the Cabinet will also check all Natura 2000 sites for the feasibility of targets and the possibility of reclassification. Fine, but the question is, what does that get? This list also misses an important opportunity. The assessment of projects is carried out on the basis that all Natura 2000 habitat types and species in an area are treated in the same way, since the formulation of the targets hardly reflects whether it is a habitat chipper, which hardly matters on a national scale, let alone on a European scale, or whether it is a large and important habitat. Can the Minister promise that she'll work on this as well? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the availability of data. The sector would like openness on all the underlying building blocks and data of used nitrogen calculation models. The government has promised this before, but that openness is still not there. This is what I'm really worried about. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet to open all the books quickly. My group also has difficulty with the fact that licence applicants have to pay heavily for data from the national database of flora and fauna, while good justification is becoming increasingly important. Could the Minister agree to allow applicants to have free access to these natural data? Mr. Chairman. This Emergency Act approach to nitrogen provides brackets that we may need. The Netherlands must get rid of the lock. However, not everything has been said with this emergency law. Last night our Chamber received a letter with a long series of follow-up steps in many areas. If we're not careful, we won't see the forest through the trees. Can the Minister provide a clear schedule in which activities are set out in time and through which the process can be monitored, including for this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's answers and commitments on identified concerns, so that there is confidence that we are not going to get out of line with our social and economic developments again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-3.u151	Thank you, Mr. Schalk.
