ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp, on behalf of the VVD, for his question to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I welcome, on the renovation plans for the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The solution to settle for 2.7 million was a waste of money. After all, we should never have been in the situation in which we had ended up before the recess with the renovation of the Binnenhof. And taste differences. I cannot, of course, as a controlling MP, base myself on the photographs of the proposals of the former architect that I see now in the media. After the settlement, it's really about moving business and discipline forward with the renovation of our Binnenhof. If you do a half a billion renovation, users, architects and the National Real Estate Company must work together as one team. I told you that tastes differ, so it's fine to argue with each other in that process. After all, the Binnenhof belongs to all of us. The VVD has always said that users must agree, the architects must agree and the cooperation must be secured in contracts. No one wanted two captains on one ship. After the settlement was secured, I ask the Secretary of State that we do not continue with one and a half captains on one ship: one in service and one in the media? Can we, for example, ask the Secretary of State, with the new architect and in the new approach after the settlement forward to meet the deadline of reces 2020? And how is the Secretary of State going to ensure the balance between all those involved in this new approach, especially with regard to the confidentiality regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Middendorp rightly says that what has happened now, namely the termination of an agreement with the architects' office OMA in this case, is not something that makes me very happy. But it was the outcome of a process we've been in for a long time. There have been debates about this in the Chamber. I've had conversations about it, too. The most important thing, and I agree with Middendorp, is that we ensure that the project is carried out in a good way within time and budget, and given the mandate of'sober and efficient', in a good atmosphere, in which cooperation and trust are also of great importance. When you talk about such a big project, there is always a difference of opinion. That in itself is not a problem either. This will only become a problem when the parties no longer have confidence in good cooperation. That's what I'm facing. Also bearing in mind the Middendorp motion as the Chamber has submitted, I have looked into the possibility of working with several architects, because saying goodbye always costs money and always hurts. So I started to work on this, but I noticed that this was not possible and that the concern that Mr Middendorp and others expressed, namely that the risk of accidents increases when too many people are working on different views, is justified. Then you have to choose between two evils. By spending money on the termination of an agreement you have concluded and the government must be trustworthy... you clear the way to proceed in a good way. That is what I have done and I wrote the letter to the Chamber on 3 September. I said we're quitting OMA. Stopping OMA sounds a little weird, but that's the name of the agency. Maybe I should pronounce the letters separately: O-M-A. So we stop OMA and continue with Pi de Bruijn, everything of course after the House of Representatives has formally agreed as a user. Based on the discussions I had with the House of Representatives, with the Bureau, I concluded that there is broad support for the person of Pi de Bruijn. For this reason, I have also responded to the request made by the Chamber, and also to the request made by the Chamber for as much publicity as possible. "maximum transparency" was mentioned in the motion. That means that those who are still in a position that they may be uncomfortable because they cannot communicate on certain issues, that as far as I am concerned should be able to do so as soon as possible, because the secrecy and secrecy in this process........ have not contributed to the success of the project so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Secretary of State describes the process of how we came to a settlement as: we had no choice. I think everyone thinks it's a shame to settle; that's almost always the case. But given the publicity we've had, how can we be sure that we'll continue with one captain on the ship in the next few days, because that's what we've all been working towards. We should not continue with one and a half captains on the ship, one of whom is not even employed by the National Real Estate Company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	No, it's very clear. We've said goodbye to one architect and we'll continue with another. There is therefore no question whatsoever of the situation described by Mr Middendorp. This also reflects the wishes of the Chamber, the coordination issue and the concerns that Mr Middendorp and others had in that regard. It is now important to proceed as quickly as possible with a renovation that is maximum in public attention, not least because there has been a lot of publicity about it. There has been a lot published about it lately and a lot of people, including myself, have felt uncomfortable about it, because we couldn't communicate about everything. I hope that this situation will be behind us as soon as possible, allowing us to continue with the architect, as I indicated in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	We have indeed spoken about secrecy before the recess and the Secretary of State has promised to come up with a new programme for this. Does that settlement, established in the recess, have any influence on what the Secretary of State is going to do to improve the balance between architects, government real estate company and users, the Chamber? That is my question as a controlling MP. What's going to change the confidentiality statement to make that balance better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Ronnes' motion, I believe, and others are quite clear. It says literally that openness and maximum transparency must be respected. I have already said once again that I want to do so myself, subject to the security aspects, because let us be clear that we cannot and do not want to be too transparent about this. For the rest, there must be as much transparency as possible, because, as we have seen, there is a lot of debate about it and it is extremely uncomfortable that you should not even talk about matters that are very obvious that you should be able to talk about it, as a Member of Parliament, as a responsible State Secretary and also as a person involved in a project, such as an official.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Of course, I am asking this because of the relocation of the discussion, because if part of the discussion moves from one of the persons, namely the architect who is no longer employed and is now outside the project, to the media, that is a risk to the business and discipline of working together on the renovation of the Binnenhof. So I think that shift from one of those people from the project to the outside world is a very important point. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to ensure in the near future that there will not be another whole new discussion there. It also raises the question whether this has been taken into account in the new contract of the new architect, who has also entered into a contract with secrecy and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	To be honest, I do not quite understand the question, because the Chamber has called for more transparency almost in full. So, as far as I am concerned, matters that have been discussed for some time now, as well as those that have now been shared with Mr Middendorp, could belong to the category of transparency. There are no issues relating to state security, so I would not like to turn back to the point that we have to make agreements again about what is not public. On the contrary, I would like maximum transparency. That was also what Mr Middendorp advocated earlier in the Chamber itself, so I find it a little strange that he seems to be arguing for the opposite now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	The first question was whether the new architect's contract took into account a new confidentiality regime, which the Secretary of State is working on and what we have just talked about. The second point was whether, in the settlement, very briefly, it was taken into account that one of the persons, the former architect, would step out of the project and perhaps play a whole new role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	No, just to be clear, I'm not working on a new confidentiality contract with the architect. On the contrary, I would like to see a transparency agreement with everyone, which we can all share, except for aspects relating to the security of a building, the safety of persons or commercially confidential elements. They fall outside; I've indicated that before. But there should be as much transparency as possible for all other matters. We are in agreement with all users, because they also have a say in this. But the wishes of the Chamber were very broad in that respect, and I am happy to embrace them, including with new contracts. As far as the termination agreement is concerned, of course, when you make an appointment, in this case with an architect's office to transfer everything they have made plus intellectual property to us, which means that we have these rights with us now, with the Empire and not with the architect, I cannot forbid people from doing so to others, not in the context of maximum transparency, to say something, and I cannot, for example, impose a duty of silence on them. I don't think that's in the spirit of what we all want. I want to continue the trajectory. These are the pieces made by this architect. There was insufficient confidence in that. We must now move on to the route. Once again, as far as I am concerned, maximum transparency is an important element in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Middendorp. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	I read that specialists, including the National Real Estate Company, thought they could push through their plans without taking much account of users. And I also read that the architect says that she has very often offered or asked the National Real Estate Company if she could talk directly to the Building Guidance Committee of the Chamberlains. My question is therefore this. When I hear it like that, the Rijksvoastgoedbedrijf did not play an intermediate role, but perhaps contributed to the miscommunication. What will the Secretary of State do to ensure that the National Real Estate Company will play its role as mediator: after the Chamber stand as the client and in the proper professionalisation of that task? How will the Secretary of State ensure that the State Real Estate Company will do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	In any case, I can make it quite clear that this role of the National Real Estate Company, as an owner but also as a process supervisor, is one of putting the user in the position to the maximum extent that it can continue to be satisfied. So I think the user's wish is extremely important. It is not that we have blocked in any way that there could be contact. So that's not something the government real estate company can be charged for. I also think it's important to look at the future. If you might have a difference of opinion about design, you'll be talking to each other about that. The Chamber has set up its own organisation to deal with all of this. There is, of course, another consultation in which all users of the Binnenhof speak with each other. Also included is the National Real Estate Company. So just that maximum transparency, that good cooperation and open to each other's criticism and doing something about it, I think, is a prerequisite for the whole project to be completed successfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	We're dealing with a maintenance remodel. Why was OMA chosen, which is especially good at prestigious projects? Why is OMA directly appointed and hasn't there been a fair tender? And what has been the role of the architect of the Rijksbouwmeester? Does this debacle with OMA also have any consequences for the position of the Government architect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Van Raak now says very easily that it is a maintenance project. Then it is a very large maintenance project and at least a complex maintenance project, also in a place in the heart of democracy, from which we will have to leave for five years. So it's a really big project. At the time, the method of contracting was based on the whole framework of confidentiality that lay over it. I have said on several occasions that it is a good thing that we are reviewing this and that we are looking at it in a different way, because it has unintentionally taken me seriously to say that, indeed, it has led to what we are talking about. Then it's about communication and then it's about images that have been created. I was myself in the position of members of your Chamber, too, that you know things you're not allowed to communicate about, while you're reading things in the newspaper that you know aren't right. That's all uncomfortable. I find that extremely uncomfortable, because we are working very transparently, also in relation to Parliament. The fact that that blanket has been put over it with all good intentions has allowed this to happen. I have already indicated in the debate how the decision-making process has been made and how the choices have been made. I can only conclude that the choices did not work out well at the time. It is up to me, and I am also thinking of all users, to make the most of catching up and to ensure that we can still complete the project within time and within budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	What about the Reichsbouwmeester? The Minister has nothing there yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	You asked that question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	I have already said something about this in the previous debate. It is a choice on which the Rijksbouwmeester advised at the time. I have heard all kinds of qualifications from the architect who I find extremely unhappy. You have to judge an architect on what's being delivered. Then you can say you're not okay with it. But I think it really goes far too far to disqualify all the work, regardless of whether the views are right. However, that is quite normal in the game between user and client in this type of projects. That choice was made at the time. There were good arguments for that at the time. I note today that this has not worked out well. That's the only thing I can say about it looking back. How are we gonna get on with this? I have heard the wishes of the Chamber very well. I think it is very important for the Chamber to see how an architect with confidence can further shape this project. I put that in the letter of 3 September. I therefore hope that we will be able to make a fresh start in this respect on the examination of the preliminary draft, in which the wishes of the Chamber can be accepted as much as possible, of course within the framework I mentioned earlier. The budget is not unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	Architect Van Loon is gone because she did not fit within the "sober and efficient" assignment. She is now busy in the media downplaying and wiping her own street, but well, that aside. She failed. That's not the first time, by the way. This was also the case with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where at present almost literally the windows are jumping out and the like; also that aside. She failed and she's gone. She's gone for no less than 2.7 million euros, in accordance with the previous contract. I have two questions about that. Does the Secretary of State share the view that that strangulation contract was so apparently it should never have been concluded? Doesn't he think EUR 2.7 million is a lot of money for someone who didn't fulfil the mission and failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	To start with, I think it's a lot of money. I think it is above all sin money that we should spend the money on this, when it could have been spent in a good way. I would point out, in the direction of Mr Kops, who is now using great words, that he himself called by motion for a resolution to stop cooperation. He also knows how contracts work. I think the government should be reliable. You conclude contracts with each other, in this case the government with an architect. If there was no indication at the time of conclusion, there is a point Mr Kops has made that there were problems as we know them now, then given that stage of secrecy and the desire to avoid having to switch from architects halfway through a project because the contracts are not well constructed, it is not so crazy that you have to clarify about follow-up assignments. If you look at what was paid, that's a lot of money. I think it's a lot of money. I think it's sin money. Now that we get the rights and are not at risk of facing intellectual property lawsuits, the amount is justifiable, but I am not happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	Architect Ellen van Loon says I had to fight ghosts. There was a row and a fight between the National Real Estate Company and the President of the Chamber. There were all kinds of media expressions. In the end, this cost the citizen EUR 2.7 million. As Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	In this case, Secretary of State, but perhaps future Minister of Limburg. As Secretary of State, you should have intervened earlier. You should have prevented the EUR 2.7 million from disappearing from the citizen. What did you do? Mr. Pechtold has been brought in. He would solve all the problems, but apparently Mr Pechtold has not been able to solve them either. Ultimately, society had to pay EUR 2.7 million. When I look at the plans presented by the architect at Nieuwsuur, I think that might have been even cheaper than all the media statements, including from our President of the Chamber and the rest, who sent away the architect via shadows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Öztürk has a point when he says it is a sin. That's what I just said. I think that the very fact that images were going to determine the debate and that the images were not always the facts, plus the fact that a number of people were in positions where they couldn't speak, caused a very strange situation to arise. I think transparency..................................................................................................... You'd have had a conversation about that. Bearing in mind the motions I just mentioned, I tried to see if a combination was possible between the wishes of the Chamber and continuing with this architect, so as not to have to terminate the contract, because that is something you only do in the last instance. In the end, it turned out to me that this was simply not a viable map. I put a lot of time and energy into it, our people put a lot of time and energy into it, and in the end I had to draw that conclusion. Why? There is no point in talking about this for a very long time, because we have to move forward. Time is our enemy, so to speak. We want to move forward quickly. We want to show that this project, which is a mega-project, is not a megalomaniac, at the heart of democracy, and that this whole complex must make it safe for decades again, that the complex must make it fireproof so that people can work well, not immediately. And then it's better half-way than completely lost. I have had to decide this with respect for everyone's position in this. I'm not happy about it, but it's the only way to make a fresh start. I hope, and I am also counting on, that the broad wish has been met and that we can now move forward with an architect who does have the confidence of the Chamber. Even so, there will be discussions about proposals that this architect will make that may not please everyone, but eventually we will have to make a decision. We want to do this with respect for the building, for the complex and for the users, of course within the budget we have set.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	The Secretary of State has not yet said anything about Mr Pechtold's role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	No, that'll be your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	I mentioned the role of Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	That's right, sorry. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	When things were very difficult in the last phase and I had discussions with the Presidium, Mr Pechtold was asked by me at the President's intercession to take on a role as President of the Tribunal. He's done that the last few weeks before the recess. That has not led to another outcome now, but I have really tried everything to bring parties together. If that doesn't work anymore, you're gonna have to move on in a different way. I am very motivated to do so, and I hope that this also applies to all the other parties, and I hope that we can show that we can also bring such a large project to a successful conclusion in a place where everyone has an interest, where everyone has a view, with maximum transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you.
