ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the internal affairs budget (35300-VII). Today we begin with the first term of office. I would, of course, like to welcome the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has asked me to give him the floor briefly before the Members of Parliament begin their contributions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. It is not customary, but I would like to say a few words about the absence of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, because when we talk about budgetary treatment, that is the moment in which the Minister should be present and would also like to be present. The minister had surgery some time ago. That operation went well in itself, but there have been complications. Those complications and solving them take time. It's gonna take patience, too. That is something the Minister does not naturally have, so that is extremely uncomfortable for her. But that means she won't be here for a while. It's also hard to tell how long that's gonna take. At least I agreed with her that I would try to replace her as best I could until then and also try to serve the Chamber. I wish her a very quick recovery here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you. Then that's cleared up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u4	I shall then give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I agree wholeheartedly with those last words. I hope that the Minister will recover soon and I hope that she will be back on her feet soon. I read in the paper that the minister is just working at home. I also saw a message coming along 15 minutes ago: Minister Ollongren calls for a mold approach in rental houses. So, I suppose, she will also be following this debate at home. That's beautiful, perhaps in her noble night stole, surrounded by servants who provide her with cups of mint tea and occasionally a Bilderberg praline. I'd say sit tight for a while, Karin, I'm working on you for 15 minutes. Too bad she's not here, but it's also symbolic: Ollongren is an almost invisible minister who produces almost nothing. And the sparing things she does produce are usually a threat to our democracy. Mr. Chairman. We are the House of Representatives of the States-General. Our job is to judge the Cabinet, and we do so on the basis of laws. A minister sends laws to the Chamber and we judge them. We shall then have a debate on it and then vote on it. However, this minister is hardly able to produce a law. We rarely have a debate with her. The Ollongren strategy seems clear: if I simply do not send anything to Parliament, I cannot go off in the debate and then I slip into the prime minister's office so slowly and unnoticed. What has she sent to the Chamber for the past two years? Well, she's abolished the referendum. The only piece of direct democracy we had, the only emergency brake citizens have to change the policy, and so it had to break. The Minister was not really able to come up with a motivation that went beyond: the referendum has not become what we had imagined of it. In the debate, she did nothing but shit. She has no arguments and can only repeat rehearsals. Embarrassing. After that, she abolished 30 municipalities: the administration even further away from the citizen. Did she make that up herself? No, she finds the bill in her predecessor's drawer, Ronald Plasterk. Here too she cannot really come up with a motivation, for example why the Groningen Haren, a stronghold of D66, should be annexed by the city of Groningen. And then we get another bill that was gonna get an alderman to live anywhere, so not just in the municipality where he or she is on the board. All in line with the cosmopolitan ideology of D66: citizens without roots, drivers without roots. Ollongren had produced a law. We tied our seat belts. That law gets it here in the Lower House and then dies in the Upper House. That's quite an achievement. Only 0.5% of all laws passed by the Lower House and forwarded to the Upper House are rejected. You have to make a big deal out of it if the Senate wants to reject a law. This is how fur makes Ollongren; a great achievement. For the rest, we have hardly seen a law of this minister. There is virtually nothing coming out of her hands: the minister of hammocks, the minister of sleeping in and turning around, the minister of airplanes fold. Well, it's a test balloon once in a while. "Jottem, I have a plan! We're going to vote on Sundays from now on!" That's what it sounds like from the hammock. But a couple of days later, that's already collapsed and she says: no, sorry, I've been thinking about it again and we're not gonna do it anyway. Sometimes she wakes up and has to implement a law, one of her predecessors, the burqa law, democratically adopted by this parliament. Mayor Halsema, also known as Pistolen Paultje, considers that the law does not fit her city and therefore does not implement it, and with her many other boards, hospitals, universities and so on. Instead of the minister taking action and showing her muscles, the invisible minister dives deeper into her hammock. She doesn't want to stand for the laws that are passed here. Ollongren thus sabotages its implementation. Also nicely democratic: there is a referendum on the subject of the drag law. Ollongren is withholding important information about that law, the CTIVD's report. The electorate in the referendum is so insufficiently informed, a very serious frustration of the democratic process. Also, Ollongren does nothing with a motion adopted by the General Reviews of last year. This year there are more than 120,000 people in the Netherlands, a city like Leiden. The Netherlands is exploding. The Dijkhoff motion calls for the identification of all scenarios for population growth. And who were they supposed to do it? The D66 ministers Koolmees and Ollongren. Well, then you do. In the past, even at D66, they understood the relationship between immigration and the environment. That is why D66 wanted to stop immigration in his election programme Kerpunt '72, i.e. the PVV position. D66 was even so afraid of overpopulation that it advocated mandatory sterilization. So some kind of organ donation, but for your death and only your genitals. That was in 1972, with 12 million Dutch. Now we're moving towards the 18 million, but yes, immigration is now a taboo. Don't talk about it, or you're gonna play Wilders in the cards, and we all shouldn't want that. Prefer the future of our children sacrificed and tower flats on the Veluwe and traffic jams on Ameland. We never heard from that motion again. The best way to make sure that nothing happens to anything is to hand it over to Ollongren. In the universe, there are black holes. That's where all the energy disappears. Ollongren is such a hole. Because the production of laws is a bit too much for this minister, she is only going to catch up as a festival organizer with the Democracy Festival. The failure of this has been taking place weeks before. To fill things up a little bit, officials were directed to the festival, during working hours. They had to fill the open spaces, working hours. Kind of like Cuba, actually. Municipalities were also begged to come with buses. Impacts on the environment were equally irrelevant. Even that bus transport got us footage of an empty area. It cost 1 million euros. Mr. Chairman. Last week it was 53 years since D66 was founded. That happened significant enough in the basement of the advertising agency FHV. That ad agency put D66 on the market. It made the commercial with Van Mierlo who walked along the canals. It wrote Appèl '66. It made ad texts and so on. D66 claimed to have been established because there is a crisis in our democracy. It therefore demanded democratic innovations and constitutional changes. That is the right of that party to exist, but if that party delivers a minister who, like no other, bears responsibility for that state law, for the Constitution and for democracy, nothing will happen. Nothing at all. Not the excited sound of officials pouring democratic innovations into laws, but just the sound of the hammock. D66 Remediation, Ollongren.............................................................................................................................................................. Nothing. The same thing we saw during the purple cabinets in which D66 played such a big role. The only political renewal D66 managed to arrange at that time was that the polling stations remain open for an hour longer. Conclusion: D66 is a blabbermouth of an advertising agency, just a dog whistle to lure noble types, senior officials, judges and so on. The slogans are really advertising slogans, otherwise D66 would have put them into practice. D66 admits that Ollongren doesn't do anything. Last Saturday, the cabinet existed for two years. On that day, D66 publishes a video showing the success of that party. I was on the edge of my chair. I thought, "Where's the damsel, and what success are they going to give her?" Well, with a fraction of a second, she was definitely in it. But if you'd blinked your eyes, you'd have missed her. Her merit appears to be female leadership. For what it is, not for what it has achieved or what it has done. That D66 movie is just a motion of censure. To give her invisible ministry a little colour on the cheeks, she starts a holy war, a heroic battle, a thing she's going to end up with in the history books. This is going to define her ministry. And that is, kettlesticks and trumpets, the fight against the fake news. The first three pages of De Telegraaf were arranged, because it had to be handled big: where were you when you heard it? A statue for Ollongren is only a matter of time. In the state service, run by a D66 man who is friends with Ollongren, the minister can drain completely. "A threat to democracy" she tells in Jinek. The Russians are being screened all the time. An entire device, the EU Task Force, is also being rigged. Boss is going to be Mrs De Cock Buning, someone who drinks beers with Ollongren in London and is willing to thank Mrs Ollongren as our next Prime Minister. We know us, the old girls network. But soon it's gonna get all messed up. The debate means for Ollongren again the well-known mess. She can't exactly define what it is, fake news. After hours of trekking, she comes up with one lean example: the Russian ambassador said something about the MH17 which is not true. Go ahead! Then there will be a toe-curving campaign. On the radio we hear commercials explaining to us that sometimes there are things on the Internet that aren't true. Well, that was a real shock for a lot of people. At least, when you think of civilians as people who are too stupid to poop. That foreign interference has now been completely forgotten. Cost of all those commercials: 1 million euros. And then, Chairman, a week ago, Friday night on the first day of the Chamber recess. There's a report coming out at 11:00 in the evening. Why at that time? Well, then the papers are printed, journalists go home. It offers the greatest chance that something doesn't stand out. What a world of difference with those three pages of trumpeting in De Telegraaf. That report puts an end to all doubt: there had been no foreign interference, never had been. Ollongren's been talking out of her noble neck for years. The only fake news is now sitting at home on the sofa watching this debate and the only foreign interference in our elections has a Swedish passport. We're just screwed. We're getting scared, scared in the curtains. And then Ollongren would have a solution for us, that EU-Stasi. As in dictatorships like the GDR, the population is being driven from crisis to crisis: climate crisis, nitrogen crisis, fake news. And just like in those dictatorships, those crises are not there at all, but always more government is the solution. Eurasia is always at war with Oceania. Not for nothing is Wag the Dog Mr. Pechtold's favorite movie; see Summer Guests. By the way, that report is very bad. It's written in English, because D66 doesn't have much with our national culture. It gives a list of media that are good and bad. Not good, for example, The Post Online and E.J. Source. 35 times No Style is mentioned. Those are junk media, a total obsession. Once again, we see the unwelcome breath of the GDR. Is it the responsibility of the government to have reports in which media are assessed? In America, you will only become a member of the Supreme Court if you are an excellent lawyer with a great record of service that has been proven to have published on legal matters and then you will be grilled for hours in parliament. See for example how Judge Kavanaugh was recently appointed. This is very different in the Netherlands. There Ollongren gives the crucial position of Chief of the Council of State just after noon to someone who has never put a legal letter on paper. Someone who connects very tolerant and inclusive Pim Fortuyn to Anne Frank. Part of the ruthless hate campaign that ultimately results in Fortuyn's murder. No one ever voted for Ollongren, and this unelected D66'er arranges a position for another unelected D66'er, Thom de Graaff. It's nice, isn't it, democracy? State broadcasting is also run by a D66 operator. With Minister Ollongren, the secret service is also in the hands of a D66'er. There is the over-representation of D66s among judges and prosecutors. There's been a proliferation of D66s among senior officials. No matter how tiny the party is, it's been eating into our democracy everywhere. The Communist Party of the GDR had made it worse for itself than D66. In dictatorships, political opponents are always the victims of bread robberies, and that is also the case here. There is a de facto professional ban against PVVs. Sometimes that's pronounced openly. For example, by Mayor Marcouch, who says "no PVVs as police officer," or by the judge who appeared on the VPRO television and said that being a PVVer is a counter-indication to become a judge. We also see this kind of thing in the political field. See the exclusion of the great winner of the provincial election Forum in the boards of provinces. Meanwhile, the ruling class divides the jobs among themselves, grants each other subsidies, raises them in the nobility and drinks them together in London. The GDR was once the only country in the world to abolish the referendum, until Genosse Ollongren came to power here. Ollongren has now announced that there will be a youth parliament. Typical weather: a government that establishes a parliament. It was the same in the GDR. Ollongren informs that there will be a supervisor of political parties. The State controls the political parties and not the other way around, as in the GDR. And the fact that Ollongren is on the Honecker line of state law is evident from tweets with which she keeps running for Prime Minister. She wants me to quote 'a woman is going to perform the highest office in democracy'. But I have news for our applicant: the head of state holds the highest office in our democracy and that has almost always been a woman for the last 150 years, and even now we just have a queen. But underneath it really is Parliament, Mrs Ollongren. You can't get any higher than that. You are still too much in the Central Committee of the GDR with your head. It's weird that a Minister of Constitutional Affairs knows the Constitution so badly. It is bizarre that the Minister of State Law has not yet begun to understand state law. Anyway, Ollongren wants to move up. Meanwhile, the bodies thunder at bushes from her Swedish Ikeakast. If she is deputy mayor of Amsterdam, the mocromafia gets free play in that city. As city alderman, the centuries-old center of our beautiful capital is transformed into a tourist hell full of blowing Spaniards and puking British. Waste power station AEB is becoming the largest financial pusher in the history of Amsterdam. Responsible alderman: Ollongren. There's even gonna be a criminal investigation. Good. I wonder when Ollongren will be brought in. Would she be allowed to take her servants with her in prison? In Het Parool we read how she, as alderman, has set herself up in this intensely shocking dossier. When civil servants come to her "alderman, we have a giga problem," her response is "I do not want any bullshit." Well, the nobility is a little rude in the mouth these days. Okay. You failed as an alderman, you suck as a minister, and then what's your conclusion? You're destined to be Prime Minister. The freule has no sign for its head, but a complete Berlin Wall: the demolition of the referendum, the destruction of 30 municipalities, that totally failed bill for rootless aldermen, the sabotage of the burqa law, the withholding of information about the referendum, the years of fake news hoax and boyfriend politics. Halbe Zijlstra once, once and out of the loose wrist, freely associated about Russia and Putin and told an untruth. But then he showed himself a man of honor and quit as a minister. Why wouldn't the minister just do the same thing when she's fooling the Dutch people and parliament for months? Not like Halbe Zijlstra, Minister Zijlstra, à l'improviste, but considered. I'd say premeditated. I look forward to an answer. Maybe the Minister can send you an app today, Madam President, to take credit for herself. We'll have Thursday off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u6	Then you will, Mr. Martin Bosma. I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u7	Mr. Chairman. I hadn't even looked at how many minutes I had, so I'm just gonna start and then we're gonna check it out. Mr. Chairman. People crave a strong public administration in town, village and online, a well-organised public administration that works efficiently and communicates easily for everyone. And people crave a public administration that you can say something back to. We are talking today about the Home Affairs budget. That ministry has an important role to play in this. Traditionally, this ministry was about our public administration and democracy, but now it is also responsible for digitisation, and thus for topics such as the use of algorithms by the government, for politics in the digital world and for our identity online; I just give a few examples. And the great thing is that these subjects will automatically come back to this Chamber every time, is my prediction. Mr. Chairman. I come from a family where there was a lot and a lot of talk about politics. And I have no objection to that at all. But in the fifteen years I've been in business, I've learned to focus on concrete things besides talking. And that's what I was gonna do right now. In order to strengthen our public administration and to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalisation, public administration will sometimes have to break through existing interests of other governments or stakeholders, we will sometimes have to dare to organise ourselves differently, and we will have to rely on people and not try to determine everything in advance. We're gonna have to put local government in its power. Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports the digital ambitions of this cabinet. However, developments are moving very quickly and much more is needed than what is happening now. We have a whole list of failed ICT projects. You notice that people don't understand that and that they're actually thinking: how does this government work for me on a digital future? I actually think that sometimes that is reinforced by the contact people have with the government. A government that does not always have its own digitisation effort in place cannot help shape that digital society and not support the digital economy. Mr. Chairman. This is often about people in the first place. There are very good people working at the government on ICT. But there's a little more to be said about it. I'll take the BIT in the first place. There are a lot of reports on this at the moment. However, there has been a short-term problem since this spring. For the VVD, independence, guidance and accessibility for the Chamber, and the humanisation of this important office, are crucial. The latter is a problem in the short term. A number of people have left, and there's a lot of work for the BIT. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet what the situation is now. Have you attracted any new people? And why is the salary of the new head of BIT that is now being sought lower than that of the previous head? The VVD has been waiting for almost a year for the cabinet's response to the "5 point plan." For a digital government that works," a plan proposed by the VVD itself during the previous budget treatment. It also contains a proposal for a state inspection digitization. In the meantime, there has been a huge study on this subject, and I understand that, because it is also quite a proposal. But I would say that two questions need to be answered. Does the government agree that the state inspection should be completely independent of the ICT Examination Office, which has a supervisory function? And does the government agree that such a state inspection should really be an example of digitalisation in the Ministry of Finance? I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter on the struggle with software providers he has waged. That letter came quickly. It is very good that the government is firmly committed to this. Especially when you're working with big American companies, as a government, you shouldn't be naive. You have to be careful and always keep control of yourself. What we should not do is decide to develop all ICTs ourselves. We really need to ensure that we have enough knowledge to assess difficult ICT projects. And that brings me back to "people." There is also an important advantage to what the government has done in this case. It can help parties outside the government, for example, small entrepreneurs and non-profit organisations who also have to buy software • help in their negotiations with this kind of ICT suppliers. I would therefore like to ask the Cabinet to see if it can share the experience in this area a little more, so that these parties can benefit from it. I'll come back to the people. We really need to look at the working conditions, the WNT evaluation and the ambitious ICT procurement strategy that the VVD has asked for before. I would actually like to ask the cabinet to do this in conjunction. There's a lot going on. I know. That's what we talk about a lot, but I think we're always looking at these problems in isolation. If you look at these three things in conjunction, I think you might be able to come to good insights that can help make the ICT effort better. Mr. Chairman. There are areas in which digitalisation and traditional Home Affairs topics come together. Digitisation and democracy is an example of this. I would like to thank the Minister and the Cabinet for the action plan and the comprehensive report that Mr Bosma has just referred to, but we are far from done with it. Indeed, I believe that domestic and foreign evildoers could influence our elections via the digital way. I have two points on that. Firstly, the European Union is rapidly developing new rules for tech companies. When it comes to our electoral processes and to something like freedom of expression, the Netherlands has to go to the team itself. Neither the national government, nor the shareholder of a tech company, nor the European Union can become the referee in our social debate, even if it takes place online. Does the Cabinet agree with that? And if so, how are other EU Member States in the race? And what is our strategy to prevent a sneaky transfer of competence to the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u8	The gentleman of the VVD just used the words "could affect." But Ollongren never said it like that. I've been digging through pages of stuff that Ollongren said about fake news. According to Ollongren, that fake news campaign was just going on. It was not "sustainable," as Mr Middendorp is trying to get out of it, but a tough story from the minister, who said: "These fake new campaigns have influenced the elections. That has been a foreign actor." But none of that turns out to be true at all. Why does the VVD keep supporting all this crap? Why don't the VVD just hit the fist on the table? Because the VVD has just been tricked, just like the entire Dutch people and parliament have been tricked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u9	Mr. Bosma is talking to Mr. VVD. What Mrs Ollongren says is in my speech: secondly, we should not stare blindly at fake news. That's what Mr Bosma said. You can also influence our elections with real information. With Twitterbots those Mr.Bosma are probably well-known, you can also cross the digital rules of the game and you can also, for example, digitally circumvent funding for political campaigns. In order to prevent this kind of digital interference, we really need to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u10	What kind of debate is this going to be? It's about the purchase of software, about bots and about all theoretical possibilities. The political reality is simply very simple. I just tried to outline it in my contribution. The Minister unpacked with three pages in De Telegraaf, joined all the programmes of the state broadcasting and has here spread about foreign interference and fake news. We've listened to her, but it doesn't seem to be true. I ask for a political judgment on this and not a story about buying software and that kind of talk. I just want a political answer. What does the VVD think about the fact that the Minister has spent years playing a story about fake news that just doesn't add up from a to z, which has been lied from a to z?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u11	I don't want to talk about buying software at all. I would like to talk about the rules of the digital game for political campaigns. I agree with Mr Bosma that we should not stare blindly at fake news. In fact, I have mentioned a number of things that we should look at. What I do not agree with Mr Bosma is that we should just look back and talk about Honecker, stoles of freules and so on. I think there's a lot going on in the world. Whether Mr Bosma likes it or not, the whole digital future is coming down on us, including Mr Bosma. Mr Bosma may also be blocked on Twitter. And if he doesn't like that, he can walk to the interrupting microphone and ask me if I can fix that for him. Because that was actually the proposal I wanted to make here: if the Netherlands were to establish its own position very firmly and ensure that we do not get an arbitrator in Europe or in a tech company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u13	I told you, I think this digitization is gonna come back here more and more. Because I notice from Haarlem to East Groningen, where I like to come, that the confidence in how the government is doing this now, is a bit lacking. We have to prevent that. Public administration can also use this digitisation to engage in dialogue with society. We must go to a government that is not only sending but can also receive something and people can say: this is my opinion, this is what I have been through. This can be done via social media as well as via internet consultation. They're very different things, but they're both new opportunities to talk to people. Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that he would respond to the Court's findings on this budget and in particular on information security. This is a huge point for the VVD. Actually, we've been working on this for three years. Yesterday we received the progress letter. I love getting up early, and I did, but it was just too short for me to process it all. On the picture I now hold in my hand, the crosses indicate that it is an imperfection and the triangle indicates a point of attention. This concerns 2016 to 2018. But of course what's on the picture isn't that positive. Moreover, this is page 39 of the Court of Auditors' report. For the VVD this is very serious. In view of the letter we received yesterday, we must certainly know how the cabinet looks at issues of concern and shortcomings. There are a lot of crosses on the picture, so we also have to get to work with those imperfections. There's no other way. It can't be the same again in 2019. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A very important point is that this digital future, which I am talking about, places high demands on people's self-reliance. The VVD therefore strongly supports the Cabinet's action plans for digital inclusion. We need to make that digital government accessible to everyone. Because that's the only way we can bring everyone into this digital revolution. We really need to make it accessible and affordable for people. For example, there are still distressing situations in the Basic Registration of Persons. This is how people get into trouble because head residents suddenly face an extra resident they don't know. It's really hard to get rid of that. Removal declarations must simply be carried out correctly. I also get a lot of e-mails from people who have problems with DigiD. That's a good system, but it can do so much better. A lot is in how we deal with digitisation. Mr. Chairman. It really goes from the cradle to the grave. A good example is the digital body delivery. We cannot close our eyes in The Hague to this changing society. "Digital funeral" may sound like I just figured that out, but it's not. Because there's gonna be more Facebook profiles of dead people than of living people. At the request of the VVD, the Minister indicated that he would work on this in the framework of the Coroner's Act. That's very good. Because if we want to modernise the Coroner's Act but put the digital aspects of it on the long track or move it to another ministry, then it doesn't make any sense. We've been working on it for almost a year now within the BZK committee. It would be such a shame if we now said: we are going to transfer it to JenV, because there are also a number of laws that we have to look at. It is a well-known phenomenon that we first talk about digitization practice in one ministry and then move it to another ministry when we're done with it, but then it doesn't work out. So I'm just going to ask the cabinet again: what can we do now in the Coronation Act? There are a number of possibilities. We've talked about that, too, but what is the Minister really going to do if we talk about the Coronation Law soon? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet must also stand for that strong and secure digital government. Our government can really work better and provide better services. I would also like to say this here, for example, by linking data from public authorities and using algorithms. In the past, fraud fighters looked through two holes in a newspaper and tried to track down people who committed welfare fraud. What they used to couple manually can also be digital for a part. An anti-fraud project in Rotterdam-Zuid with SyRI has ended prematurely. The data was time-barred, so everything had to be destroyed. And of course we can only do that kind of thing if we do it neatly: no big brother and always with a human overview. I think we are doing very well in the Netherlands, but also for this we cannot continue to talk, because there are huge opportunities in these algorithms. In addition to the fight against fraud, you can also quickly and easily show people what arrangements are in place for them, what arrangements they can use and which they can not. You can also assign permits more quickly. It offers opportunities for information exchange and for public services. The easiest thing to do is not to do with all those algorithms, you don't get any criticism either, but we have to fight welfare fraud, and we have to take all those opportunities I just mentioned. We need to use new technology to do that. We're gonna do that nicely, but as far as the VVD goes, we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u14	It sounds like the use of algorithms is really one big party, but we also know that there may be algorithms that confirm prejudices and what the so-called bias is in. I can't hear the VVD spokesperson say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u15	I think I made it very clear that we're gonna do it nicely. In all these discussions about algorithms, I think we are extremely careful, but that does not mean that we have to keep talking about the disadvantages. We have to make sure that we use them in a good way, that we use them nicely, and then we can provide better services to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u16	Do I understand why you also say that this must be free of values and not discriminate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u17	You don't discriminate in the normal world. And we're not gonna do that online either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u18	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u19	Mr. Chairman. It's already happening. It's already happening. Municipalities that want to work with algorithms buy digital solutions. Everywhere in datalabs municipalities work on very exciting projects, such as predicting pile rot, burglaries and care consumption and driving traffic flows, to name but a few. It is already happening, but does BZK actually have an overview of the great projects that are already being organised? Can the Minister send a list of promising projects to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. A completely different example of the relationship between the Empire and the municipalities, but again with regard to digitisation, are data centres. That is a huge opportunity for the Netherlands. The municipalities of Amsterdam and Haarlemmermeer have put in a temporary construction stop for new data centres. Mr Bosma also mentioned it. What does that even mean for that brilliant strategy for data centers that the ministry has created? Has the Minister contacted Amsterdam? Because I think we should do everything we can to prevent this kind of data centers from being unnecessarily blocked and simply to take the opportunities that lie here in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. For local and regional directors, who are hard at work every day for their residents, the government must support them, for example by helping to exploit the possibilities of digitalisation. If municipalities want to use algorithms when collecting garbage or digitization to abolish the corridor to the municipal desk and bring passports to the people's homes, great examples from Alkmaar and Hollands Kroon are to be supported. The budgetary process must also remain with the municipalities. Not only the local government, but also the minister, the cabinet, must work with the Municipal Fund and the step-on-step system. This plays a huge role among local drivers, because rising costs in care can put the stairs-off local finance under pressure. In 2020, the Minister will present proposals for a new system for the Municipal Fund. The VVD wants to focus on the following principles: simplification, stability and greater transparency. Why is it only so late in the year that it becomes clear what a municipality's budget is? Has progress actually been made in the last six months? We discussed this in detail six months ago. This also applies, for example, to keys and fluctuations in the municipal budget throughout the year. Mr. Chairman. It is good to talk extensively about rural democracy and to make it better where necessary. However, as a VVD we do not want to put the system at the centre, but the Dutch. The municipalities are the first government to which the Dutch can knock. We are now seeing situations in which things are getting out of hand and it is becoming impossible for municipalities to provide good services to their citizens. Local democracy is sometimes turned into navel-starring and political confusion. There are situations where something really needs to change. We would therefore ask the Minister to make a proposal for experiments in municipalities that are open to them, so that they can hold interim elections. This so that residents and thus voters can finally get back to work when local government gets stuck. Mr President, I shall conclude. Countries such as Singapore and Estonia show that digitisation is not just an opportunity for China and the US and that the Netherlands does not have to leave everything to Europe. I told you, our government needs to reinvent itself and become a digital government. People, private, at work or as entrepreneurs, want to trust that our country is safe and strong. The middle class is willing to pay taxes, but not if it is thrown over the beam to ICT. That applies to every Dutchman, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u20	I do not wish to disturb the closure of Mr Middendorp, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u21	Well, you already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u22	Yes, with your agreement, Mr. Chairman. I had another question about the proposal to do an experiment with mid-term elections. We know, for example, that in reclassification elections, which also do not take place collectively, turnout is often lower. Precisely because there are elections in all municipalities at the same time and there is national attention to them, the turnout is higher than in that kind of election. If we hold mid-term elections, we might have to buy a lower turnout. How does Mr Middendorp view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u23	Well, I'd almost say "I could predict it with an algorithm," but I can't predict what the turnout will be. I do have some feeling for the argument put forward by Mr Van der Molen, but I also think that we are talking about an experiment here, and that it would be good to see if it will help to build that into our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u24	Another supplementary question, my last one. How does Mr Middendorp see this experiment? He'll have a certain idea. Will a limited number of municipalities be designated for which it will be temporarily possible, if necessary, to issue early elections? And what if there is nothing going on in these municipalities, which means that no early elections will be held? Then how do you look at such an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u25	Then I still think it's very good to do that experiment. That is also the proposal I asked the Minister to make. But I can see that Mr Van der Molen is already starting to think with me. We should actually work out all these dimensions. Then we have to see if we can learn anything from that, or it helps in our system to say: in these municipalities people can at some point be moved again. I agree with Mr Van der Molen that it would not have been necessary if elections were never to be held. And if no one's gonna vote at all, it wouldn't have been such a good experiment. But I do think it is a good thing to investigate that, and that is what I am asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u26	You were going to lock up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u27	I did come to a conclusion. The government can do a lot in the digital future. She can make things herself and she can make rules. We should not see that as once a year the AO eID or once a month with another ministry an AO Algorithms. No, we are talking about the future earning power of the Netherlands. Let me give you two examples. In the physical world, we have a passport. Why not online? Working online identity can improve people's contact with government and put an end to hundreds of government databases, but it can also boost the digital economy. A second example. Algorithms and artificial intelligence are still a bit of the future. The concrete proposals made by the VVD in its Human grip on algorithms initiative paper can ensure that we make smart rules rather than general bans that other parties want. Mr. Chairman. The VVD and it sometimes feels like we are the only optimistic tech party in this Chamber asking the cabinet to start working on our digital future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u28	I heard Mr Middendorp talking about an online version of the passport. Part of the Chamber, including myself, has visited the United Kingdom in the context of the Brexit. That is where people are very worried about having only a digital proof of their residence status. That is very sensitive to hacks and passport photos or names can be changed. Doesn't Mr Middendorp see a lot of risks there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u29	There are certain risks. I would also not propose that people should be identified online if there are all kinds of new dangers involved. I do think it would be useful to note that perhaps sometime in Estonia we should check where they have this system. England has a completely different system than we do in the Netherlands. There they also see all kinds of dangers in registering people, to name but a few. The entire registration system of individuals in England is completely different. Anyway, I totally agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that we are not going to give an online identity if it can be abused in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u30	The colleague of the VVD says 'I quote him literally 'the government must reinvent itself'. Well, that's good, because the VVD is a government party. The Minister is here on behalf of the VVD, on behalf of the coalition. I've argued that this minister doesn't produce anything and doesn't perform anything, that we never get a law from her. Does the representative of the VVD think that the government is in the process of reinventing itself? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u31	Well, if I understand the question of the PVV representative, it is about reinventing and whether or not that happens enough. I think it's happening too little; right. I have also argued that there should be more; it is also true. I think I have to say that I have also said that a number of steps are already being taken and that we support them. May I add one more comment, Mr President? If the government reinvents itself, I'm just not sure that that's a government that the PVV representative is waiting for. Anyway, that might be the next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u32	It's nice to come here with all kinds of balloons, balloons and ideas, and it all sounds very nice, but when the VVD says that the government has to reinvent itself, I think: just do it; you're in the cabinet. If the representative of the VVD now finds very simple that it doesn't happen, then I wonder why you're in the cabinet. That is another political question. Why don't you just reinvent the government, because that's what you're after? Oh, come on. A little action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u33	Well, I notice the representative of the PVV has been talking about Bilderberg pralines and stoles. The VVD has worked hard on the ideas for an online identity and is working all day towards the cabinet to release them. That's not a balloon or just philosophizing away. I myself think there is a lot to be done. That's what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u34	I'd like to rewind the tape to the Coroner's Act. It is very nice to see that D66 and the VVD have been able to move together to modernise this law. Now there is also a D66 action plan on digital legacy. I hear Mr. Middendorp of the VVD say that on Facebook a lot of profiles of deceased people are floating around that way actually continue to exist. I am very curious about the VVD's concrete plans on digital legacy. Does Mr Middendorp agree, for example, that significant improvements should be made with regard to the privacy of deceased persons, such as rules for next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u35	What I particularly think is that we should not say too quickly that we are going to make rules to regulate the digital legacy. These things are new. Our rules are often very old. I think we should look very carefully at what we're going to change. That's why I said in my contribution that now, after a year of talking, we're going to see if we can have another conversation with JenV. I don't think that's the way. I think we should conclude what we can do in modernising the Coronation Act. What can we do to give people a message, for example? Then you don't have to change all kinds of complicated privacy laws at all, but then you could say that you need to inform people about the digital side of death. How are you gonna do that? As far as the VVD is concerned, you can look at all this in the Coronation Law. That does not alter the fact that we still have a lot of other areas to look at, for example, the GDPR and so on, which I think Mrs Den Boer is referring to. But we shouldn't leave one behind and then go to the next to talk about it. I think we should just do something, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u36	I think and see that the VVD is somewhat allergic to introducing new rules. In the Coroner's Act, of course, it's about rules about physical death. Here we are talking about a digital issue. Almost the entire contribution of Mr Middendorp is about rules for the digital age, looking to the future. That's why I'm asking Mr. Middendorp about his concrete ideas about regulating the digital legacy. Should that happen, for example, in inheritance law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u37	Yeah, this happens to me more often in conversation with D66 when someone calls the word "rules." There are a lot of different kinds of rules. I don't want any rule or just all the rules. I think we should make smart rules. That's one. I think it's also too easy to say: we have a physical law and now we're going to come up with a whole new thing for the digital world. I think we need to connect to what we have. The Coroner's Act has many aspects. Perhaps Mrs Den Boer knows that better than I do. She may even know how many aspects there are, because she has spent a lot of time in doing so. It would be weird to say that the Coroner's Law with all its aspects is physical and that you're going to arrange the digital future somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD. I'm talking about you, Mr. Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u39	I'm not a speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u40	No? You're on my list. I didn't think so. Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wish the Minister well. I hope she'll recover soon. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is so flexible that he can also represent the minister's part of this budget. Mr. Chairman. Now that the cabinet is halfway through, it is good to discuss with the cabinet where we are now. First of all, the functioning of the public administration. Municipalities, provinces and water authorities have been given more and more tasks in recent years. Think, for example, of the decentralisations in the social domain. This will not be any less in the coming years. For example, the PAS measures, the implementation of which will be dealt with by the local authorities. In order to carry out these tasks properly, local authorities must have sufficient financial resources to provide equivalent services to citizens. Whether you live in Rotterdam or Schiermonnikoog, facilities such as youth care and social support should be insured. We must be able to assume that the integrity of public administration is guaranteed. On all these points, there are serious concerns and we hear from many municipalities that there is less money available through the so-called step-on-step financing system than was assumed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u42	These are words to my heart: a plea by GroenLinks for the integrity of public administration. GroenLinks also provides people at the top of the public administration, for example the mayor of Amsterdam. She turned her office house into a weapons store. She sent a letter to the city council, in which she misplaced the D.A.'s office, coincidentally in relation to a family member. She's been keeping very important cases under wraps around a criminal case. This minister was there as the chickens to say: it's all private. I thought that was kind of weird. Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance think that everything Femke Halsema, the mayor of Amsterdam, has done in this case fits within the integrity of the public administration that Mrs Özütok has just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u43	What happened in Amsterdam actually belongs there. We're talking about a mayor of Amsterdam. There's already an investigation into the whole thing. As far as I am concerned, this discussion must be held in the city council of Amsterdam, not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u44	No, we can just feed them here, because the minister who isn't here right now tweeted that it's all private. So she immediately threw the cloak of love around it. Well, okay. A little different, then; so be it. I remember a debate. Femke Halsema just happened to have that debate. Mrs Halsema then stood at the place where you are now. She's running against all kinds of MPs from my group. It was at the beginning of the tolerated period. Mrs Halsema told me that all Members of Parliament had to leave the PVV. She then launched the Femke Halsema doctrine. It means that a politician who is in opposition must disappear. So it is not a criminal argument, but a politician who is in opposition must disappear. That's what Mrs. Femke Halsema thinks. Apparently that is what your group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, thinks. My question is: does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance still think so? And does GroenLinks agree with me that Mrs Halsema is now in opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u45	The incident referred to by Mr Bosma took place a long time ago, I understand from what Mr Bosma said. I wasn't there, so I think we should leave it with the past. I actually want to continue my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u46	No, that's not how we got married...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u47	No, I'm glad you didn't!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u48	... because it is not true that the words of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have a kind of limited expiration date? Mrs Halsema, the leader of your group, although she is gone, I assume that her words are more important than the time she has spent here, and that a politician who is in opposition must leave. That's the Femke Halsema doctrine. Femke Halsema is in dispute as mayor of Amsterdam. Then it is logical that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which can be a little bit consistent from time to time, now says that the Femke Halsema doctrine is still valid and that Femke Halsema is indeed in opposition and therefore has to resign? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u49	Absolutely not. The discussion about the mayor of Amsterdam really belongs there, so Mr Bosma can always try to get the game here, but I'm not buying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u50	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u51	Well, that's not so much kicking in. You just don't have the guts. You yourself bring up the integrity of the public administration. You start with the integrity of the public administration, and look at what the GroenLinks mayor in Amsterdam is doing: keeping the case under control, sending incorrect information to the public administration, turning the residence into a weapons store, and then telling falsehoods. When you talk about the integrity of the public administration, I like it all a lot, but put your hand into your own bosom and speak out about the mayor of Amsterdam. You yourself bring up the integrity of the public administration. Where is the integrity of the public administration in Amsterdam? Why don't you explain that to me once?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u52	To date, there is no doubt that the integrity of the mayor of Amsterdam is fine. Mr Bosma starts from his own experience and appreciation, but that discussion really seems to me to belong to the city council of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u54	Mr. Chairman. My group is concerned about the funding system: is it at the expense of providing services for citizens? Various studies are currently under way, including at the request of GroenLinks, on the financing of municipalities and on the possibilities of extending the local tax area. Next year, further decisions will be taken, but we cannot allow the municipalities to solve the problems themselves for much longer. How is it prevented that necessary facilities will disappear because municipalities have too little money? How do we prevent the same problem from arising next year? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Further steps should also be taken with regard to the integrity of public administration. Undermining takes place in many municipalities, more and more. It must be avoided that the underworld has an influence on policy through local politics and government. This means, in concrete terms, that the integrity test for prospective aldermen should become mandatory and that all municipalities should have an independent audit board that can control the policy. How are we doing with this, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Many policies are now made through common regulations, with little effective democratic control. We have been waiting a long time for concrete improvements, while we see in all kinds of regional deals and action agendas that more and more policies are being made in places where good democratic control cannot take place. This concerns my group. That is why I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how the cabinet ensures that good democratic control can be carried out through municipal councils. Mr. Chairman. Finally, under this heading something about the right to challenge. There is now finally a proposal from the Minister, as we understand from the letter, but this proposal, according to GroenLinks, is really too lean. The Minister's proposal contains a possibility clause, so the municipality can lay down rules. As far as my group is concerned, it really has to be the right to use the right to challenge. This must be firmly anchored so that it is a right and not a favour for citizens in every municipality. How should we interpret the letter on that point? Mr. Chairman. Integer governance is important. In addition, control of the finances of political parties should be strengthened. According to some experts, the Netherlands is now the Wild West of party funding. GroenLinks has long argued for greater transparency. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, gifts that cannot be traced to who they come from, for example through foundations or other constructions, are prohibited. I'd like to hear how the cabinet views this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another important issue: tackling discrimination. An effective approach to this remains a recurring issue, particularly in the labour market and the housing market. As a guardian of fundamental rights, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the primary responsibility for an effective approach to discrimination. I know that the Minister also sees this approach as a priority, but unfortunately my view is not that the problems are getting worse. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the state of play of the anti-discrimination approach. In particular, I would like to make two further suggestions. First of all, the issue of a broad anti-discrimination monitor. We now receive an anti-Semitism monitor every year. It is sad that this is necessary, but it is also very valuable to have that insight. We also see a lot of Islamophobia. Wouldn't it be good to have an annual monitor on that, too? Another suggestion I would like to receive from the State Secretary is a point that GroenLinks has already proposed, together with D66 and the PvdA, namely the use of specialised discrimination detectives. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine this proposal in concrete terms, together with his colleague from JenV? Mr. Chairman. Another important point is the accessible digital government, a subject the State Secretary himself owns. Society is digitizing more and more. However, the government is chasing developments. Several legislative proposals will be submitted to the Chamber and the Buitenweg Committee will also deliver opinions next spring. Today, I am calling for attention to be paid to digital accessibility for people who are less digitally skilled and for strengthening the ICT Test Office, or BIT. We are going to talk about digital accessibility more often in the coming period, but the subject deserves to be addressed here as far as I am concerned. I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the involvement of target groups in improving digital accessibility. As far as BIT is concerned, I can be brief. The BIT does very important work and regularly maintains a critical mirror for the government, as well as for us as a Chamber. My group would like to receive a commitment from the Secretary of State that we will not have a discussion on the financing of BIT over the next few years. Mr. Chairman. The government must always set an example. This also applies to the last three parts of my contribution as far as GroenLinks is concerned. First of all, human resources policy. We ask companies and other organisations to implement an inclusive personnel policy. It is always disappointing to see that the government itself is lagging behind in this area. For example, a recent study by the General Court showed that the number of people with a migration background in consultative colleges of the Empire has fallen significantly. The number of women in top positions is also low. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what he thinks should be done to make staff policy truly inclusive. Then buy it sustainably. From buildings to road signs, the government buys in for over 70 billion annually. If all governments were to set an example and buy in a massively sustainable way, this would be a major step towards a circular government and thus contribute to achieving the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, sustainability should be a mandatory criterion in government procurement policy. So every call for tenders has to be tested for sustainability. I'd like a response from the cabinet. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u55	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Mr Sneller has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u56	Mrs Özütok spoke a number of times about the integrity of the public sector. Well, there was recently a video published by her party about a fellow party member of her group who was approached for a paid post outside politics. In fact, I would have expected her to go a little further into that and indicate what proposals or conclusions she would draw from them. So maybe she could say a little more about what she has pulled out of that when it comes to guarding the integrity of the House of Representatives specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u57	Mr Sneller's card is a very important point. In view of my short speaking time, I would like to make a motion on this matter in the second term. It is really shameless that tobacco manufacturers are wristing Dutch MPs to work for them and help change the party's position. As far as we are concerned, it is very undesirable for Members of Parliament to be approached in this blatant manner. We would like Members of Parliament to be obliged to be more transparent when it comes to the contacts they have with lobbyists. So it would be nice to make a register for that, just like we did with gifts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u58	I'd like to see that motion. But if I understand correctly, it is about all the contacts with lobbyists when it was specifically about offering money as MPs coming to work for them and actually helping to change that group position. I think that's by all the rules at the moment. There hasn't been a breach of any rule. So my question is actually twofold. Firstly, is Mrs Özütok prepared to bring these people who offered that money to the Chamber to just discuss it with them and ask in public what exactly was behind it, what was the intention? Secondly, can we look together to see if there should be rules that prevent this, that do not make this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u59	Again, it is indeed shameless that this way we are trying to gain influence in the system in which we operate here. I think it is a very good suggestion from Mr Sneller to get a little more clarity from the industry itself. So let us ensure that we bring them here to discuss this point. It is forbidden to approach officials and directors. The same applies to MPs. The fact that this is still happening cannot be described with a pen. I would like to join you in thinking about stricter rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u60	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u61	Let us then pick that up together and at least organise that hearing as a first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u63	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u64	Thank you, Mr President. It is exceptional that we do a budget debate without the Minister, but we have a good replacement here on behalf of the cabinet. From this point on, I would like to wish the Minister of the Interior much better. Mr. Chairman. Democracy and local government are at the heart of the Home Affairs budget. There's a lot to do about both. Both subjects also belong together. Local democracy is in need of maintenance, as the rulers claim. The CDA believes that this is indeed the case. With the opinions of the Remkes Committee on administrative renewal, the cabinet is working, at least to see what it wants to do with it. Despite the fact that we hope to discuss the cabinet response very soon, given the current situation, I would like to take one point out in order to make a general point about it. In recent weeks, quite a lot has been written about the gap between what is then called the Randstad and the region, especially as a result of the demonstrations of farmers here just around the corner. It was stated that there is a gap. As "gap" is a container concept, so are "Randstad" and "region"; as if everyone in the Randstad is alike and as if there are no differences in the region. However, it would be absurd to ignore in the Chamber that there are different regions in the Netherlands, all with their own interests, their own backgrounds and their own mentalitys. Since I'm from Friesland, I'm only going to count myself among the MPs from the region. Then you will notice how complicated it can be to arrange the infrastructure project or close the hospital, where we never thought that a whole area of the Netherlands would suddenly be empty when it comes to hospital care. It's really hard to put things on the table there. It is also for this reason that I really welcome the fact that the Cabinet, the Minister and the Secretary of State, said in the letters to the Chamber following the Remkes Committee: we want to think a little more about regionalisation in the electoral system. We often talk about other things, such as Mr Van Raak's speech about the referendum, but in the end it is also very important how the representation here is. I just wanted, in a general sense, because there is now a lot of talk about it, and I recognize a lot of it from the CDA, to call on the cabinet to do real work on that part. Then, in the next step on the future of democracy, we can seriously reflect on how to increase regional representation in this Chamber. I would like to draw particular attention to the border regions, where there is a very strong feeling that there is a specific problem and that The Hague does not know what that really is about in practice. I would like to make an exception for this Secretary of State, because he is extremely strong from The Hague on this issue. I would like to make a specific point about border regions. The Chamber has adopted a motion from my colleague, Mr Van der Graaf, and the undersigned, to introduce a border-region test, as I would like to mention, into legislation. I have seen that the Secretary of State, as he has promised us, has also done so by offering some sort of directive to officials who can involve them in new legislative proposals. But it is not yet part of legislation. Shouldn't we take that step? Should we not also take the step, on top of the motion that has been adopted, to know very specifically what the impact on the border region is in every legislation that comes to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. I'm making the transition to local democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u65	It is good that the CDA considers the representation of the regions to be very important. I also come from a region, Limburg, where the Secretary of State also comes from. Does the CDA also consider it important that women and people with a migrant family are well represented in the Chamber, but also in local democracy, as alderman, deputy, mayor, secretary of state or minister? And does the CDA think that the current cabinet is colourless, with all due respect, because there is little or no diversity... is an example for local democracy to manage representation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u66	That's two questions. The first question is: do you think diversity is also important, regardless of region? Sure. I therefore also believe that political parties should make an effort, as your party does and so should my party, to show that diversity. On the other hand, when it comes to the cabinet, diversity is not just a question of whether someone is coloured or not. In politics, that has a lot to do with ideas. You can get five white, medium... I was gonna say "medium men," but that can't be done. You can put five middle-aged white men next to each other and say there's no diversity, but then when they open their mouths, you can find that five different opinions come out, and that's politically very interesting. So I always take that diversity a whole lot wider than what you can see on someone's outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u67	There are also MPs from the Randstad who understand the regions well. That's one way to reason. If you go through that reasoning, it's very easy. But when I look at the CDA and its members and representatives with a migrant family, it gets less and less. The CDA is becoming a bit of a party in which people look more like you than the diversity we have: fewer people with a migrant family, fewer Muslims. Most of them are leaving. Do you think that in your party, both in the cabinet and in your own party, everything is being done to ensure that diversity enters the cabinet? What are you gonna do about it? And would you ask the Minister or the Secretary of State to do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u68	My party does very different things to involve diversity, for example to increase the involvement of women. Look at the composition of our group. The latest batch that has come in consists of two women. That's how we try to do it in a lot of places. But I do not think it is so important to put my party under the magnifying glass, or your party, and to say that you might succeed better than we would. I strongly support the idea of ensuring in our electoral system that as many people as possible in the Netherlands feel represented by this Chamber. This is currently being done by the current electoral system. If you're thinking about another way to choose people, I think it's a good idea to see if, for example, we can choose a part of the Chamber through the region. I hope the cabinet will find that out seriously. We can have whole discussions about how to do that. I would like to take this up with you at a later date, but also given the current situation, I wanted to make this point today, because we have seen very strong discussions about whether The Hague still understands what is going on in all corners of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u69	We support the representation of the regions, but when you are trying to represent people well, you should also look at the approximately 1.5 to 2 million people who are not well represented by the current establishment parties such as the CDA. Let's be honest about that. Are you prepared to try to get the Secretary of State and the Minister to do something about it, so that those 1.5 to 2 million people with a migrant family are also better represented, as are the regions such as Friesland or Limburg or Brabant? Are you prepared to say the same here and direct the Secretary of State in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u70	That's not the plea I'm making. I told you that I also think that representation in the Chamber is important. Look, you now have a fraction of three people, three men. If you would do your best to make one woman part of it in the future, then we have both made the world a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u71	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u72	You can give the example of three men, but you can also say: Mr Öztürk, you are right, because 1.5 to 2 million people do not feel well represented, and I would like to point out to the Secretary of State, apart from the regions, that he should also do something about it. Then we found each other, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u73	I believe, and the CDA believes, that political parties should take care of that themselves and that they should see for themselves which people they are running for office. I believe that there is no role for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u75	Mr. Chairman. As I have said, I am making the transition to local democracy. In the letter on this subject and in the budget, the cabinet states that there is a need to maintain local democracy. The Minister has already started a number of things, including the democratization of partnerships and the shake-up of local audit offices, and she has announced legislation on a right to challenge, which allows residents to gain more rights. But with all due respect for these steps, I'd like to call that small maintenance. In her letter, the Minister states that in much larger municipalities the distance between government and society has also grown. In this context, the CDA calls for attention to be given to three issues which, as far as we are concerned, fall under the heading of major maintenance: the ever-increasing reclassification of municipalities, the differentiation of tasks of municipalities and the introduction of dualism in municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Last year, this Chamber agreed to reduce over 30 municipalities to 12. This puts the counter at 355 municipalities as of 1 January this year. Widely in this Chamber, from left to right, the concern was expressed at the fact that we cannot continue at this rate, also because in larger municipalities the turnout in elections is falling. So the size of a municipality also says something about its proximity, and proximity leads to involvement. It is good that this minister has now reduced the role of the provinces in reclassifications, because reclassifications need to be supported from below. But are we done with that? Not as far as the CDA is concerned. Let me give you an example. Last year we discussed a reclassification in this Chamber in which it was unclear whether one of the villages wanted to participate in that reclassification or rather chose a neighbouring municipality. There are first signs that this can be repeated in the future in the case of reclassifications that are still coming towards us. Apart from the legal reality, I ask the Secretary of State: isn't a village primarily of its inhabitants? As municipalities grow, we increasingly see that the interrelationship in a new municipality is getting smaller and that the orientation on a neighbouring municipality can suddenly be much more logical. Now we leave it to the municipalities themselves to decide whether to redistribute it simply. Shouldn't we give local communities much more control in the process of reclassification? How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u76	I am truly pleased with this new sound from the CDA. In previous debates on reclassifications, it was always said that the Secretary of State recalls that it is ultimately up to the city council to decide on a reclassification. Now it seems as if Mr Van der Molen says that it is ultimately up to the people to decide whether or not local democracy is being abolished. If you say it's ultimately up to the population, doesn't it make sense that you're going to ask the people if it's a good idea that you're going to consult the people about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u77	I wanted to say something about that in the section below. I know that Mr Van Raak pointed out in the debate on reclassification that you might have to decide to hold a referendum in such cases. I think that's something else about that, but I'm very much looking for a bigger role for residents. I would like to explain that further. Even if we deal with these communities differently, that rate of growth does not decrease. As a CDA, we dare to argue that we risk further undermining local democracy if we only look at the municipality as a provider of services with professional governance. If it is right, it is also a coherent community that gives guidance to its own environment through the city council. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether, in future, there should be no increased procedure for reclassifications. For example, a procedure such as that in this House for constitutional changes with a first and a second reading could be envisaged. Why shouldn't there always be a council election when reorganising the reclassification plan and implementing it, sending it to the Minister? Can the Secretary of State indicate how he views such an option? Mr. Chairman. In her previous life, the Minister of the Interior was part of the Committee on Future-oriented Local Government. The chairman of that committee was the current commissioner of the King of North Brabant, Wim van de Donk. This committee supported an evaluation of dualism, because this form of government would have led to more political and not more popular representation. In addition, she broke a lance for letting go of the uniformity of municipalities. Municipalities should not in all cases have to carry out the same tasks, with smaller municipalities having to carry out fewer tasks and larger municipalities more, to give an example. Those opinions from the committee date from 2016 and we are now discussing the budget for 2020. That is why two questions. One. Is the Secretary of State prepared not only to facilitate cooperation between municipalities, but also to open the discussion on possibilities for task differentiation, so that as a small municipality you can also transfer a task to a level that is also democratically legitimate? Two. Isn't it time for a thorough assessment of dualism in municipalities in 2020? After the last evaluation, we have been on the road for 15 years, and as far as we are concerned, it is time. My colleague Özütok van GroenLinks has asked questions about right to challenge and my colleague from the Christian Union will do the same. For ease's sake, I agree. If you read the Home Affairs budget for 2020, you will see that there is a lot in the pipeline. At the same time, our local government is under pressure. The financial situation of many municipalities is worrying. The implementation of care tasks requires a great deal. In addition, spatial planning tasks will soon be transferred to the municipality and they will have to do the necessary work around the energy transition. Many municipalities are therefore not financially well placed and this is an urgent problem. In addition to the financial deficits they have due to the implementation of the Participation Act, the Youth Services Act and the Wmo, the Municipal Fund is left behind because part of the investments of the Empire still need to be started. The Minister announced in the budget that the iron of the new financial relations should be forged by 2020. The same applies to the revision of the distribution model for decentralisation. In the meantime, the cabinet is releasing a billion dollars to cover the increased costs for youth care, but more action will be needed. As CDA spokesperson, I have repeatedly argued for this with the Minister. In the General Political Reviews and in the Financial Reviews, the cabinet has already indicated that it wants to talk to municipalities about more stability in the Municipal Fund. In the end, the Minister will have to decide on this. As far as the CDA is concerned, the cabinet gives municipalities more rest in financial relations by having the Municipal Fund monitor the government budget during a cabinet period, even if under-utilisations occur. Afterwards you can then check if adjustments are needed, but not during the ride. This means that a municipality's budget can grow along with the government's budget, but that it does not face all kinds of intermediate adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u78	I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Molen once again. I also have a question, but those compliments really apply. Here's a CDA guy who takes local government extremely seriously. We have, of course, introduced dualisation in the past. The SP was against it and we have done so largely over the heads of those local people. That we are not going to have a discussion about how big we are going to make the municipalities, but about what kind of tasks we are going to give municipalities and whether municipalities can be small with fewer tasks, I think the very big profits of this debate are going to be. Mr Van der Molen also talks about finance. And let's just say it the way it is: the money is bouncing up against the skirts. We do not get 11 billion spent and because the government does not get 11 billion spent, the municipalities now have to cut a lot. Shouldn't we make sure that next year the municipalities get enough money? That's money there is, but it can't be spent by the system right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u79	As I pointed out, this has been discussed in the Financial Reviews and also in the General Political Reviews. At that time, a motion was also adopted in the Chamber to look at the way in which municipalities are financed. That's one part. The second part is indeed about financial deficits. In a whole number of municipalities, they are urgent. When I speak to provinces, they say to me: the chance that next year we will have to put a lot of municipalities under supervision because it is financially difficult, we are sure to arrive. That's what we're gonna see next year, and that's what we're really worried about as a CDA, I think with you too. I also hear from a lot of aldermen: there is a lot of money in The Hague. That is precisely why I want us to have this discussion with each other, because we cannot allow these problems to continue. I would just add that the amount that is now available is due to under-spending, but there are also obligations under it. So we can't pretend there's a bag of money we can do anything with. For example, money earmarked for defence expenditure will remain this year. But that money will go with us, because we want to buy that submarine at some point. So I do not want to tell the municipalities a story that is too easy, but I want to have a very specific discussion about the financial problems here and I also want us to be able to look again at how we can also make it more financially easier for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u80	But aldermen and council members of the SP cannot explain that they have to cut back now and not because there is too little money, but because there is too much money. Aldermen and council members of the CDA can't explain that either. Because the government can't spend the money, municipalities have to cut back. That is so bad for trust in local democracy. And we can't do that to our locals. Is the CDA willing to consider a way to give municipalities the money they are entitled to at least for next year, by 2020? So it's not extra money, but it's just "don't give less money to municipalities." It's just the money that's budgeted, but it's not spent here. That way, those local people can also simply implement their local policies, which are money for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u81	I recognise from CDA aldermen and council members exactly the same signals that Mr Van Raak is getting from SP aldermen and council members. Indeed, it depends a bit on the municipality, but they are now faced with choices about austerity. This also has a relationship with, for example, the concerns surrounding youth care. What I hear is that some of them have been helped with at least the amount that has been made available to youth care. Because in this respect, we have seen very large deficits in municipalities. So that nothing is done is, of course, not true. I am certainly prepared to look into this, especially for the sake of more stable financing. I have also indicated a plan for this. And I would certainly like to take a closer look with you at what else might be needed in the financial field. But I have also seen an amendment from you, which says: let's bring $1 billion that we have there, just as easily. I would like to look at that, but I would point out that this is a little too easy. This money is also intended for expenditure that we also consider important, namely care and defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u82	I would like to ask you a few more questions on this subject. It is rightly said that municipalities are now facing financial problems in the areas of care and youth care, but it also threatens to close down libraries and swimming pools. And this while there's 11 billion left. It is made clear: yes, I want to see how we can prevent this in the longer term. But "the hour is now." Municipalities have a problem right now. So we should look at what we can actually do in this budget. We can talk about the cover. We ourselves made a counter-budget of 700 million. I think the municipalities are talking about a deficit of at least 600 million. So before the end of the financial year, then before the beginning of December, can we sit down with each other to come up with a concrete proposal? For then we make it visible and actually do something to the heart cry of all those aldermen. And we have the financial means to do this. What's your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u83	I cannot say anything about this during this debate, because I will have to talk to my colleague in the finance department about this too. But it is not without reason that the Political Reviews from the Chamber have already been widely said: we cannot continue to deal with the financing of municipalities in the way we do it now. This also has a lot to do with the stability of funding, but also with the difficult position of municipalities at the moment. I shall now put the question to the cabinet. What does the government think about better financing of municipalities, which is much more stable, so that municipalities also know where they stand? Because if we had set it up in this way so far, the financial problems in the municipalities would be a lot smaller than they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u84	Mr. Chairman. If I could look a cow in the ass...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u85	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u86	In Friesland we like to say that, Mr President, that is a very normal expression and there is nothing strange about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u87	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u88	In Amsterdam it is not a normal expression, but in Friesland it is. That's what they say to his Frisian, but that's pretty much what it's all about. If we had known things in the past that we now know, we might have done a lot of things differently back then. And if we could look into the future now, we might do a few things differently now. But that does mean there's a hole somewhere, literally, where we have to see how to solve it now. So that's my question. That motion has been widely adopted, and there is an agreement between friend and enemy. But the municipalities have a problem right now. They're in big trouble there. Yes, money has been promised for youth care, but that is not enough and other holes are closed with it. Libraries close, pools close, care can no longer be delivered properly and problems are great. So my question is again: is it just fine words here, or "have we really gotten a little crazy tegaarre"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u89	I couldn't understand the latter, Mr. Chairman, even though I'm speaking to Fries. It's a good idea; I'm assuming that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u90	That's often the case with Mrs. Chicken. At the end then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u91	Those are your words, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't dare say that. I know very well that we come from a different period. In the period before I was in the Chamber, I was alderman and before that I was a councilman. I have seen Cabinets in which there has been considerable savings on the municipalities, especially in the previous period. It was not without reason that, when this cabinet was created, municipalities advocated the reconnection between the state budget and the municipal budget, which had been abandoned. Widening is also there, including in the social domain and in the care sector. Those expenses of the Empire now count for the calculation of the amount of the Municipal Fund. I am glad that this particular cabinet has made sure that this link is there. So I also understand the disappointment of the municipalities that say: we would have expected more of that. At the same time, drivers have to make difficult choices in practice. I would like to pay attention to this, also for a different way of financing it. I would also like to point out that I have done so in previous debates. If we need any further steps, we want to take a serious look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u92	Finally, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u93	Now it's going to be a bit of a lecture and a little crying, in the sense of: "I find it so annoying for the aldermen, because they can't make ends meet" and "I look at the Secretary of State." But then there will be nothing concrete, and there will be proposals to see what can be done in the short term to meet the needs of the aldermen. My question is specific: are you really going to do it seriously and can we expect a joint proposal for closing the financial year? Or aren't you giving home? I just want a yes or a no, and not another college please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u94	I have already said in reply to Mr Van Raak that I find the SP proposal before me very easy. I don't know if you support that. I'm not gonna make an easy promise like I have a bag of money. But that does not mean, as far as I am concerned, that I do not want to look seriously at all kinds of options or that I am going around the subject because I think that we should not discuss it with each other for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u96	I want to make two short points. Together with my colleague from the Christian Union, I have put forward a proposal on the integrity of municipalities, namely that prior to the appointment of directors, we should always have a discussion on integrity on the basis of an integrity study. We should make that legal. This is the opportunity to ask the cabinet to respond to that proposal, also because we see from the developments in The Hague how important it is that we make good rules about it. Mr. Chairman. Then my final point about the software we use to count the votes in elections. We have been discussing this in the Chamber since 2017. The Minister has solemnly promised us that we will be able to carry out the next parliamentary elections with proper new software, with no gaps and with security guaranteed. But what is my surprise? The budget contains the following paragraph: we have done a lot of things about the Election Council, for example about structures and the question of who should do what, but we have in the meantime forgotten a little bit that we also need to work on new software. As far as I'm concerned, I can't. I therefore call on the cabinet to make a strong hurry to prepare the software. I therefore ask you to speed up the process as much as possible, because this is really not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u97	In addition to the last point, the possibility of hacking into the results of our elections and counting votes. Does the speaker agree with me that the current situation is as leaky as a basket?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u98	I do not know whether the qualification "as leaky as a basket" should be attached to it, because I do not know that technically. What I do know is that there have been reports in 2017 that there were security holes in them and that they were repaired every time. The appeal I made to the Minister on behalf of the CDA is that we cannot continue to do so forever. At some point we need to get to new software for counting the votes, because we can't keep going on with old material and closing holes. The Minister has promised us and the Chamber that she will do so. I note that the Minister does not honour that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u99	I couldn't agree more, but it's a lot worse. It's just as leaky as a basket. It is absolutely ridiculous how we do this in the Netherlands. If I tabled a motion to call on the Minister to work on this, would you support it? On the other hand, I would also support yours. Because the way things are going in the Netherlands, it really can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u100	I had prepared a motion on this point, so we speak and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u101	All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u102	I do not think it is possible for us to hold elections with software whose security needs to be repaired every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u103	I agree with Mr Van der Molen's appeal. The VVD has already drawn a lot of attention to this. The European Commission is working on anti-hacking plans, even with anti-hacking systems. Does Mr Van der Molen actually think that the Netherlands is entirely responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u104	Cyber incidents may involve hacking all kinds of systems, including the Dutch electoral system. That has a lot to do with external threats. So at European level, we will have to work together to at least deal with this threat. So in that respect, I believe that we have a joint task in Europe. I would point out that the electoral process is a national matter. So it's our job to make sure that our election process is completely secure. This also means that the software must be in order, because citizens in particular must be able to trust that counting votes is completely flawless. They need to be able to trust that the result is the way people voted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u105	In short, this means working together in Europe, but the Netherlands itself remains responsible for the electoral processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u106	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u107	If Europe is to create a common system, in which we have to have knowledge and skills, then we need to monitor that system in the Netherlands, so that we always know for sure that we have a system ourselves, should there be another Member State in the European Union that chooses a government that could, for example, hack us. So the Netherlands must also have its own copy system of the systems we make in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u108	I must say that I am not quite clear on what system Mr Middendorp is talking about. So I don't know if we should have a copy system of that either. Perhaps Mr Middendorp can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u109	Or think about it; you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u110	That is always a good thing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u111	I don't have to think about it anymore, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u112	Mr Van der Molen did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u113	Yes, but to put it very briefly, Mr Van der Molen agreed that we should work together and knew that systems are being worked on in Europe. In my view, we also agree that the Netherlands is ultimately responsible for this. But I was wondering: if you create such a beautiful system in the European Union, shouldn't we, as the Netherlands, also have a shadow system, or at least something we can fall back on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u114	I don't have any idea what it's about. It's not you. It's me. Let me make it quite clear: our electoral process is a national matter. We have to take care of things properly. If we need European cooperation in order to deal with hackers at all, I am always in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u115	Well, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u117	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Democracy does not work equally well for everyone. The voice of not all citizens is sufficiently heard. The existing political discontent of a part of the population can lead to abhorring and abhorring democracy." Maybe the chairman recognizes the words. They come from the report of the State Committee on Parliamentary System led by Johan Remkes. Abhor and abhor our democracy: that is the conclusion of a state committee. It's a party. We're a century old. We have a century of universal suffrage. But that is also the time to think carefully about the extent to which we as a parliament represent the people and the extent to which the cabinet does what the people ask of them. Of course, it started in 1848 when we got the Constitution of Thorbecke. It was a bit of a liberal democracy: the richest 10% of the Netherlands got the right to vote. Afterwards, the struggle for universal suffrage began, a widening in which socialists played an important role. That came in 1919. Then we got a lockdown. You saw people being organized along philosophical lines. In the sixties and seventies you saw a depilation. People began to vote more and more on the basis of their own ideas and their own interests. In the eighties and nineties you saw another development, a marketing. You saw public services being liberalised, outsourced and sold. While citizens were increasingly looking at The Hague to solve the problems of society, you saw that The Hague was increasingly turning its back on society. The debate on the state of our democracy has begun with the state committee's plea. It also had a good solution to the problem, namely a referendum. That's a valve or a good safety valve at the moment when politics does things that the public really doesn't want. I therefore tabled an initiative law for a referendum in January. We have had to wait, but I think that the Council of States has come up with a beautiful and also weighted opinion. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he agrees. The Council of State sees the referendum as a good way to reduce feelings of isolation, alienation and exclusion among certain groups of people in society and as a positive addition and correction to our current system. According to the Council of State, the binding corrective referendum is also a final part of the parliamentary system. I'm happy about that. I am very much looking forward to the debate we are going to have here on the basis of the law. However, I ask the Secretary of State what he is now looking back at the fact that the consultative referendum has been abolished. The Council of State also says that it is so unfortunate that we have been able to practice so little. This is about the consultative referendum. I promised the Council of State that I would at least pass those concerns on to the Secretary of State. Trust in local democracy is also being undermined. As a national policy, we have made an important contribution to this. Aldermen, council members and local politicians cannot explain that they have to cut back, not because there is too little money, but because there is too much money. Since the government is not spending 11 billion, all these aldermen now have to cut back on youth care, homeless care and all kinds of public services such as swimming pools and libraries. So that's not because the money isn't there. The money's there. The money's budgeted. The money is there, but aldermen can't spend it because of the system. It's the umpteenth time the local government's been caught. Of course, it started with the decentralisations. You had to do all the tasks, but you didn't get the money. In fact, you need to do something new and cut back at the same time. Think of the scaling-up discount from the previous cabinet. Hundreds of millions had to surrender the municipalities because of reclassifications, reclassification benefits. Those reclassifications didn't come, but the money was taken. Think of all the targeted cuts and all the extra investments they have to make. There are major shortages in the police, and so municipalities have to hire boas. There are major problems with the housing market, and so there are a lot of homeless people with municipalities. We're about to have the climate debate. Everyone's gonna have to get off the gas. Municipalities already indicate: we do not have the people, we do not have the money, we cannot do that. In the house of Thorbecke we are equal, national and local. So I really don't think it's possible for us to deal with our local drivers this way. They don't have a story. They can't explain to their people and to their town or village that they have to cut back hard, while the money here is bouncing against the plinths. That is why I have tabled a modest amendment for one billion for next year. There's that billion. In fact, there's still 10 billion left. And why is that? That is a gesture of decency towards our local administrators, our colleagues who are trying to do the best for the country on the basis of equality and which we are now squeezing off, not because the money is not there, because it is there, but because the system is not right. I'm glad the government wants to look at that systematic, but we should also just give our people the money they deserve. I also noticed that there are very few laws coming from the department, at least when it comes to Home Affairs. At least I am doing my best with the referendum, but there is still more work to be done when it comes to trust in politics. Many people do not understand that politicians make better rules for themselves than for the rest of the Netherlands. That's why I made a law to abolish the waiting money. I have read the contributions of the VVD and the CDA with particular interest. We're going to have that debate. Another thing is that we agreed a Roemer norm here in 2010. No more than 10% of the total staff costs may be spent on the hire of externals. At first, the ministries kept to that, but now you see that a lot of ministries are already at 20%. Municipalities are sometimes at 25% and some provinces are at 30%. The ministries alone spent 1.4 billion on expensive externals in the last year. That is not only a lot of money, but also bad for the administration, because politics and governance make themselves dependent on externals, while they simply have to carry out their core tasks and have their own knowledge, skills, people and resources. That is why I am working on a law to impose this Roemer norm, which everyone in this Chamber has said yes to. Mr. Chairman. Another thing that scared me is that we're gonna give ourselves more money. I wasn't for that, but I've looked at the cover from which it's paid. Is it true that the motion of member Jetten cum suis will be paid out of the rent allowance? Can the Secretary of State give me some clarification on that? I was reading that and I didn't get it. I thought: that can't be true; I should ask the Secretary of State. Can he explain that? Then I can also prepare a motion. Is it really true that we are going to give the politicians here in the House of Representatives more money and that that money comes from the rent surcharge? Can the Secretary of State explain that? If it is true, I can say that I am considering a motion on that point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u119	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join with the Minister in wishing him well. We hope to see her again soon at the side of the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The State Committee on Parliamentary System, to which reference has just been made, asks in its final report...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u121	May I make a small point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u123	D66 has come here with two representatives. Mr Verhoeven has apparently been removed from this dossier. There's something I can imagine. But what's the role-sharing? What subjects does Mr Sneller do and what subjects does Mrs Den Boer do? Who's chief referendum and who's chief fake news? 'Cause I want to make a few interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u124	You can at least ask me for referendum questions. If it is all unclear at the end, I would like to come back for you once again after Mrs Den Boer's input. But I think you'll get your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u126	In its final report, the State Committee on Parliamentary System strongly calls for our attention to be given to strengthening the future stability of the democratic rule of law. It expressly refers to the fact that democratic and constitutional freedoms are becoming increasingly subject to international pressure. Today, encouraged by the State Commission, I would like to dwell on the resilience of our democracy. For democratic and constitutional freedoms are under pressure not only in countries that have always been at the bottom of the ranks, but also in respectable democracies. That forces us to hold a mirror to ourselves, too. For what happens if the Prime Minister engages the Head of State on false grounds to send Parliament home? What happens if the head of state makes military support to a friendly country in an unsafe region dependent on an investigation designed to haunt a political opponent? What happens if the government lowers the retirement age of judges to make room for their own appointments? Could something like this happen here, or are our institutions and rules superior? Is our democracy resilient enough? A stress test for our state law: it does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury. I don't want to get anyone else's ideas, but you don't need a very big fantasy watching the news these days to ask you the following question. Suppose there is a coalition or cabinet in the Netherlands that considers its own interest and its own right to be more important than democratic standards, or even to see erosion and blurring of those standards in its own interest. How far can such a coalition, such a cabinet, come without even changing one letter of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u127	We already have that coalition. The leader of the opposition is my group leader, Mr Geert Wilders. He's been standing in front of the fence for five years because he asked for something. In a similar generalising remark by Mr Pechtold about Russians, the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is full of D66 people, is less interested. And what does it turn out to be? A minister, Minister Opstelten, had a hand in that process. All kinds of senior officials call my group leader'malicious', so he seems to be a form of cancer. That has played a role in that process. So we already have a coalition like this. Why doesn't D66 condemn that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u128	I think that coalition has said that we can have that debate as soon as the verdict is reached. In my view, this is a matter of respect for the separation of powers. That is precisely what I think we should have even more in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Indeed, take the political debate in this Chamber. Because why would such a malicious coalition, which does have a majority in this Chamber, ever have a debate if that is not a good time? Without a coalition, there is no quorum and therefore no debate; Article 67 of the Constitution. And if that coalition needs a debate, that is not a problem, because the majority determines the order of business and the agenda; Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. But I would like to be as brief as possible with the votes immediately afterwards; Rules 67 and 69 of the Rules of Procedure. All this, of course, behind closed doors; Article 66 (2) of the Constitution. And this is just the beginning, but it already shows how far-reaching such a coalition can completely beat the democratic debate to death according to the letter of the law. I think it would be useful to bear that in mind if we were to deal with the new Rules of Procedure, which we are presenting tomorrow. Mr President, a second example. A foundation under our parliamentary system is that a ruler resigns after this Chamber has adopted a motion of censure. But that trust rule is not written down anywhere, while ministers are appointed indefinitely. So what if a minister, supported by the Prime Minister, simply refuses to leave? It was close in 2006, but so far things have been going well, until a cabinet says: but not now. That is why I ask this cabinet whether it is prepared to strengthen and codify this trust rule, the basis of our parliamentary system, in our constitutional law, so that we know that it is there as a basis in case we need it. Mr. Chairman. A champion of open society once said that institutions are like forts: they must be well designed and well humanized. The future stability of our democracy depends to a large extent on those who man those important democratic institutions. Think of the High Colleges of State, the planning agencies, the advisory bodies, the ZBOs and the agencies. But who decides which people they are? In the vast majority of cases, that's the government, actually just by itself. In almost all cases, at least the government has the last word. These institutions are, of course, important checks-and-balances in our democracy, but power also needs counterpower in those appointment procedures. I therefore propose that in many cases the House of Representatives should be given a formal role in these appointments. I would like to use two principles. The greater the involvement of the Chamber in the organisation's work, the greater our role. The more important the independence of the organization, the greater our role. In my view, this would be an important first building block for more transparent, fairer and inclusive appointments. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Because of time, I could only mention a few examples of things that could happen within the rules. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he is prepared to carry out a more extensive stress test of our democratic rule of law on the same basis. But even within these three examples, it is already clear how incredibly important democratic standard is and how important it is that we keep each other sharp every day and that we are jointly kept sharp in this area by journalists, scientists, NGOs and, of course, by well-informed, critical citizens. This also shows to me how important the separation and distribution of powers is and how important it is to regulate them tightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u129	Thank you. Mr. Martin Bosma!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u130	He's very active today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u131	Yes, very active.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u132	Mr Sneller is also talking about referendum, I presume. 'Cause he mentioned the state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u133	That's what he just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u134	That's very nice. I always do my best to understand D66s. Hans van Mierlo wanted the referendum. For example, he wanted a referendum on the Betuwe Line and on the Maastricht Treaty. Maastricht was an important international treaty. Then we had the referendum. The D66 Group wanted to abolish this and supported D66 Minister Ollongren. Mr Jetten's argument was: if there is an international treaty involved, there should not be a referendum on it. That was totally new. That is why the referendum in the Netherlands has been abolished. Now I watched Newsnight on the BBC last week. There was someone in coal angels explaining something. It turned out to be a Mrs van D66, Sophie in 't Veld, a former MEP. She said that there should be a second referendum on Brexit. Then I thought, "Now I don't understand." Brexit is an international treaty and D66 didn't want referenda on international treaties, did it? Can Mr. Sneller give me a little explanation of what D66 wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u135	Mr Bosma has a lot of time to follow all kinds of media. I can't find the time. Maybe he could spend that time on some extra legislation he's so craving. I think it's very clear. We are in favour of a remedially binding referendum. The international conventions should be excluded from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u136	No, that's why it's a good thing I'm watching Newsnight. Sophie in 't Veld says there must be another referendum on Brexit in England. Brexit is an international treaty, isn't it? Or am I crazy? Why does D66 want a referendum on Brexit and is D66 here where you stand: no referenda on international treaties. I really don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u137	In my opinion, the brexirefementum shows exactly which type of referendum you should not want. It shows the lack of clarity that was the result of that. It's still getting tangled about. It also shows the powerlessness of the elected parliament there in order to give good effect to it, because the question was not clear. If there is a final result, that would at least be a clearer question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u138	A further referendum must therefore be held on whether the United Kingdom should be in or out of the EU Treaty. But after that, we must never again hold a referendum on an EU treaty or international treaty. Is that the point of view of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u139	I have not seen the broadcast of Newsnight which Mr Bosma has studied carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u140	No, me neither. But I never watch left-wing TV shows, not even from the BBC.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u141	I'm here about Dutch law. I would like to see a correct, binding referendum in which international treaties are excluded. That is exactly what Mr Jetten said here a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u142	So that's fundamentally incompatible with the brexirefreendum Sophie in 't Veld proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u143	And what you didn't see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u144	No, but I don't have to look at such a whole program to understand what her point of view is. It is also found elsewhere that she thinks there should be a new lexiantum. That's her point of view. And you are against referenda about treaties. That's incompatible with each other, isn't it? It's possible. You can say: Sophie in 't Veld represents something that is contrary to D66's point of view in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u145	In any case, I am in front of the Dutch law and I would like to see a correct binding referendum in which international treaties are excluded. But I think I've already made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u146	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u147	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the Secretary of State's best wishes for well-being. Mr. Chairman. In the Throne speech, confidence in the future was central. "Trust has to do with the way people feel represented. Politics and government must be everyone's and everyone's." That's what our king said. Active involvement of all Dutch people in our society is a fundamental prerequisite for a resilient and resilient democracy. It's not self-evident. Our democracy requires constant maintenance. Our Home Secretary sees it that way. On many fronts, the cabinet is in a strong position: from the right to challenge to resilient governance and from the implementation of the Remkes report to the action plan for local democracy. But there's still plenty to do. A great deal of legislation has already been announced on issues such as integrity, voting rights and funding of political parties. That's what I'm waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u148	Mr Bosma has gone all the way to this budget, because he has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u149	The fraction of D66 "wait for it with sorrow." That minister's in there for exactly two weeks. On Saturday, the cabinet was there for two years! Why do we rarely see a law of this minister until never?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u150	I've just said that the cabinet is in a strong position with all sorts of things. Home Affairs is a comprehensive dossier. There's a lot of topics in there. We can see that there have been measures taken in the area of legislation. Think, for example, of the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor or of the burqa ban. That's all happened. I now also look forward to legislation with regret. So I share that impatience with Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u151	That burqa ban wasn't Mrs. Ollongren's. That was Mr. Plasterk's. So she just found it in a drawer when she became a minister. Again the question: why doesn't Ollongren produce or hardly produce laws? Why isn't she doing anything? Why didn't anything come out of that room? Why isn't anything coming out of her hammock? Because you can say that democracy requires constant maintenance, but what does Ollongren do for our democracy? Nothing at all! And why is it that a party such as D66, founded for democratic renewal and for constitutional improvements, has nothing to do in this area? This is why you were founded. Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u152	The Minister and the Secretary of State are indeed working on a lot of legislation on many different dossiers. But I also see the urgency of a number of things. I would suggest to Mr Bosma that these questions be put to the Secretary of State and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u153	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u154	So there's plenty to do. Much legislation has been announced on issues such as integrity, voting rights and funding of political parties. That's what I'm waiting for. It's been a while now, and change comes in small steps. The legislation is awaiting its adoption. D66 wants to see a move on, so that the Minister can actually carry out that interview with our democracy during this cabinet period as well. Along four lines, today, I come back to that maintenance of democracy. First, we must continue to build our democracy, both locally and nationally. Secondly, anyone who wishes to do so must be able to participate in our democracy: inclusion and diversity. Thirdly, we are working on trust in our democracy. The integrity of our public administration is on trial in the spotlight. Tough steps are needed. Finally, we want a forward-looking government that takes account of the future. For the record, with all the questions I address to the Minister, I assume that the Secretary of State will answer them. I have every confidence in that. Mr. Chairman. In the area of local democracy, I consider strengthening and innovation to be very important. First of all, innovation. Democracy is not static, but moves with time. This is seen with initiatives at local level, such as the right to challenge. I am pleased that the Minister will anchor this right in the Municipal Act, in order to strengthen the control of residents, precisely in the implementation and evaluation of policies. But the right to challenge will only work if everyone counts, if equal participation can actually be guaranteed and if there are not just university-educated people at the table. How will the Minister ensure that the right to challenge works for everyone and that obstacles are removed? Sometimes the right to challenge is not the right way. In fact, residents are supposed to take over a real job. The right to cooperate is then a nice intermediate form. This gives residents the right to co-operation with the municipalities: to initiate initiatives together and to take up the tasks together, as equal partners. In Rotterdam my city, by the way......................................................................................................................... Is the Minister prepared to promote this right as well? I like to hear it. I would like to thank the Minister for her letter, which gives a broad view of our public administration. It is also about renewing and strengthening our local democracy. I share her analysis that decentralisation has unintentionally increased the distance between government and residents. That's what we need to do, to make people feel like the government is there for them. But what is the Minister going to do that she wasn't already planning? Is it taking new measures to reduce the distance between residents and government? I also read that the Minister is working on rules to give municipalities more experimental space. What's the timeline for that? Mr. Chairman. A strong local democracy primarily involves a strong city council, a council that has sufficient knowledge and skills. The government agreement states that council members and members of Provincial States are supported in training and equipment. The Minister has started to do this, but I have a question on two points. Firstly, I have a question about the personal training budget of council members. It is well known that they are entitled to do so, but they do not always make use of it. Now I read that only ten municipal councils are working on a development path to improve this situation. I think that's skinny. Does the Minister agree with me? How's she gonna do this? Secondly, research was carried out into the remuneration of members of State and general board members of water boards. That study would be completed in October 2019. I wonder what the results are. Mr. Chairman. In the case of strong local democracy, I am also thinking of stable municipal finances. Municipalities have been given many additional tasks in recent years, but their funding is lagging behind, in terms of stability, in terms of systematic and in terms of size. The cabinet has promised to look at a more stable Municipal Fund for the coming years. I would like to hear from the Minister what the municipalities can expect from this commitment in the short term and in the longer term. Can we expect more stability by 2020? Mr. Chairman. For a vibrant democracy, interested residents are indispensable. Democracy must be possible for everyone, but not all groups in our society are equally involved or politically active. Less than a third of our mayors are women, for example, while we see a diverse and inclusive public administration ahead of us. Part of the Democracy in Action programme is to increase the diversity of our local government. Then it is about the male-female relationship, but also about people with a non-western background. Does the Minister see any results of this? What obstacles does it take to ensure that anyone who wants to participate can participate? 100 years after the introduction of the right to vote for women as a candidate, only 33% of the members of the House of Representatives are women, and that percentage is falling. After years of emancipation and integration, we must see that the representation of women in politics and public administration can and should be improved. It is very important for citizens to recognise themselves in that administration for the sake of trust in our public administration. When it comes to the percentage of women in parliamentary representation, we are on the world ranking between Zimbabwe and Cameroon, instead of 42. I find that unheard of. It's time for the Netherlands to make meters. Many European countries have introduced rules into their electoral law. For example, countries such as Belgium and France with a minimum percentage of women on the electoral list and also with a so-called driving obligation: men and women on the list. I know the Minister is investigating the possibilities in our Election Act. I would specifically like to ask her to make a comparison with other European countries and to include the requirement for a minimum percentage of women and the journey obligation in that study. Can the Secretary of State undertake this on her behalf? Not only at the level of parliamentary representation, but also at the national level, we must be alert. The share of women lags behind in the higher pay scales, according to the Annual Report of the Company Rijk in 2018. In scale 17 and above, 29% are women, while 47% of the total workforce is women in the Empire. We also see that in scales 14 to 16 the proportion of people with a non-Western background has remained the same, and that in scales 17-plus their share has even decreased. Does the cabinet think this should be different? The Cabinet intends to take additional measures. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State what his reaction is to the Court's report on the stagnant number of women in advisory colleges. What's he gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u155	A strong plea for women. Full support for that. But also a lot of questions about people with immigrants. I hear a lot of questions. Then I think, well, after two years, a cabinet with D66 still asking questions? I'd say come up with suggestions and ideas. When I look at D66 as a party, I also see a lot of migrants leaving D66. So what does D66 himself do in the municipal councils, as aldermen, as statesmen and other representatives, to attract people with a migrant coming to D66 and then go a step further? So beautiful, beautiful phrases that can get a lot of results in a good film, but if you look at the content and the questions, then I think D66 itself hasn't done much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u156	Of course, it is up to the parties themselves to make their choices. And it's kind of hard to impose that on parties. However, parties follow the line of as much diversity as possible. Your group consists of three men. That's another form of diversity. I would say that we can try to ensure diversity in different ways. It is about man/woman, it is about young and old, it is perhaps also about a regional distribution, as Mr van der Molen has just argued. So there are many ways to guarantee diversity in politics and in public administration. I have now made a number of concrete suggestions from D66, for example the journey obligation and the minimum percentage. I'm asking the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State to investigate that. I would very much like that to be investigated. I want to know if that can work. I would also like to see your party's view that diversity may also be guaranteed on other fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u157	DENK is the most diverse party that exists in the Netherlands. We've only been officially part of the House of Representatives for two and a half years. If I compare that with D66, founded in 1966, and look at the diversity in other groups, I think that there is still a lot to be done. When I hear your plea, you are dealing with quotas and tough measures towards the cabinet when it comes to women. But when it comes to people with immigrants, all you ask is questions. So I think you're making a distinction. For the women you want a quota, you want a result. For people with a migrant family you say: yes, go and work on it. Besides, D66 is in the cabinet. When I look at the cabinet members, they're not very diverse. Anyone with a migrant comedian in the cabinet, who looks a bit like me, we can't see them without a beard. What does D66 do to make the cabinet more diverse, so that the example function is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u158	I think the point is made. D66 also wants to measure this, but I note that four of the six cabinet members who supply D66 to this cabinet are women. I note that our First Parliamentary Group is led by a woman. I note that in our group in the European Parliament there are two women at the wheel, one of whom also has a migration background. And we do have people with a migration background, at least I think in your definition, in our group. And that is the right path. But it can always be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u159	When it comes to women, we know it. We know that D66 wants quotas for that, that D66 wants results. It's not just women that matter to me. We support that. It's about people with a migrant family. You don't make a meter in that. Are you then prepared to propose the same thing you propose for women, including those with a migrant origin? That is the key question. Can you give me D66 examples of which you say: those are the examples, that is what we have done? Unfortunately, he doesn't have one right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u160	If this means 'people with a non-western background', we in our group have two members with a non-western background. We have several city council members with different backgrounds. So the question is, what about the statistical knowledge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u161	I'm going to see Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u162	Roger van Boxtel from the same party as Mrs Den Boer once spoke the historical words: quotas are for fish. But now we need a women's quota for political parties. I may be getting a little old, but I remember D66 calling himself a liberal party back in the day. But now D66 comes up with all kinds of ways in which the state has to manage political parties. Of course, that's totally crazy. I made the comparison with the GDR, but it gets worse and worse at D66. Okay, quotas and diversity. When we look at the judges in the Netherlands, we see that D66 people are horribly overrepresented. Not for nothing we're talking about D66 judges, while that crazy little club only gets a few percent of the votes. Does Mrs Den Boer also think that the judges in the Netherlands should know diversity in the sense that the percentage of D66s among judges and prosecutors should reflect the percentage of votes achieved by D66 in the Lower House elections, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u163	We are talking about the internal affairs budget. We are talking about democracy and we are talking about public administration. What D66 argues and Mr.Bosma knows very well is equal opportunities for everyone in the Netherlands, whether or not someone has a Western or non-Western migration background, male or female, young or old, it doesn't matter. It's about inclusion in public administration. From diverse public administration, the Netherlands is getting better, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u164	Oh, stop itchy words...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u165	To finish my answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u166	Yes, Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u167	This is not an obligation, but a request to conduct an investigation and to compare it with how other European countries deal with it, which do manage to ensure better representativeness at the top of public administration and in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u168	Stop itchy words of inclusion! Then we also have to connect and diversity and everything. Get a life, I'd say. Again, a lot of judges are D66s, a horrible number, a huge over-representation. That's why we get these ridiculous statements from time to time and rapists get community service. That's why my group leader messed with the D.A.'s office, but Mr. Pechtold didn't. That's why the blockage Frisians are caught and so on. Judges do politics all the time. You can like that or not; it happens. And those D66s are in the state's attorney's office and they're in the judge's office. When are we going to reduce the number of D66s among judges and the Public Prosecutor's Office considerably, so that we really get diversity there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u169	D66 is committed to the rule of law and to the separation of powers. This also means that people who exercise the profession of prosecutor or judge sign an oath of office, that they adhere to the principle of neutrality and of judicial independence. That's the most important thing. And in terms of words, the allergy is completely mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u170	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u171	Mr. Chairman. During my maiden speech, I said it: the government must be plentiful of integrity. And unfortunately, the image in the country is not bright at the moment. In The Hague there is a criminal investigation into the corruption of two aldermen. In the province of Limburg there is a real job carousel for former politicians. This calls for clear rules of the game. The Minister has proposed a whole series of measures, including legislation. We're still waiting for that. For example, it proposes a legal integrity regime whereby mayors are given the duty of care to ensure that candidate aldermen are screened. Can the Minister clarify whether this involves an obligation to investigate integrity? Mr. Chairman. I was pleased with the letter we received last night, in which the Minister announced that he would make rules for transparency in the financing of local parties. 35% of the city council members represent a local party. That's a lot. These local parties therefore play an important role in the Netherlands. They don't get government funding. They get money from membership or donations. But often they do not have to answer for this. This may at least make these parties vulnerable to the appearance of conflict of interest. That's my party a thorn in the eye. Previously, D66 Chamber member Gerard Schouw already filed a motion on the disclosure of the finances of local political parties. It is good that that duty seems to eventually come. However, I would like to ask the Minister about the threshold for the disclosure of gifts which she envisages for the local parties. Does the Minister agree that €4,500 would be too high? The Veling Committee previously advised to make rules on transparency and to subsidise local political parties. The fact that local parties do not receive subsidies leads to an inequality that can no longer be defended. D66 agrees. The Minister also wants to involve this in the Political Parties Act. I would like to hear whether there are any developments in this area. As far as D66 is concerned, these measures are of great importance for an honest local government. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to talk about a government that anticipates modern developments, which goes along with time and acts before there are actual problems. One example is the intention to modernise the funeral law. Last year, D66 has made a strong effort to better align the Coroner's Act with the wishes of the people. It is increasingly apparent that, in addition to physical death, there is also digital death. People who die leave a digital legacy, such as bitcoins, emails, photos, e-books or a Facebook or Instagram account. D66 has noticed that there are little or no rules for next of kin to deal with this properly. For all our physical assets, the inheritance right regulates who is the heir, but at the moment there are no clear rules for the digital legacy. Notaries call it a legal maze, and there is the danger of identity fraud with online profiles. Last week I presented an action plan to draw attention to this. The subject deserves a place on the political agenda. There must be rules for how to handle the digital legacy and clarity about inheriting social media accounts. This way we prevent accounts from floating online forever and give the next of kin the clarity they deserve. I would like to hear whether the Minister and the Secretary of State would like to launch an investigation, perhaps together with the Minister of JenV, into how this can be regulated by law, so that digital possessions become part of the legacy. It can be unnecessarily complicated for relatives if they do not know what the deceased would have wanted with his or her digital legacy. They often do not have access to the digital legacy because of the lack of passwords. Only one in ten Dutch people think about what should happen to their social media accounts when they die. Are the Minister and the Secretary of State prepared to launch an awareness campaign here? That's it, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u172	Mr. Bosma, the very last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u173	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Den Boer is closing with a campaign. We've seen a campaign, Mrs. Ollongren's fake news campaign. Mrs. Ollongren put on very big pants. Three pages arranged in De Telegraaf; thunder and lightning, trumpets and kettles; the international legal order was at stake; she was in the state broadcasting and it was all something. But when we got to the point, last Friday, nothing turned out to be true at all! Now Mrs Den Boer from D66, from the same party as the minister, talks about "trust in government," but how much confidence can we still have in the government if a Minister of the Interior cheats like that? Is Mrs Den Boer, I have already hinted at a motion of censure in the second term, prepared to support any motion of mistrust on my part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u174	What were you thinking, Mr. Martin Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u175	I'd almost say, Chairman: I don't think so, Job!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u176	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u177	Mr. Chairman. Gert-Jan Segers said: it is impossible to explain that municipalities have to cut back, while the Empire has so much money that it doesn't get that money spent. Mr Jetten of D66 added: libraries and swimming pools cannot be closed because we cannot provide them with sufficient security. Mr Van der Molen joined today. That is why I am looking at the cabinet, in this case at the face of the Secretary of State: can we do something for these municipalities, even before 2020? For I wholeheartedly support beautiful promises to create more security and more stability for the future. That is why this motion has been supported by Parliament. But we also need to settle something before the end of the financial year for this year. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Digital inclusion is a very specific issue for the State Secretary. There was a nice cabinet letter, everyone has to be able to participate, which I would like to wholeheartedly support. I read that it is intended that digital assistance should be provided in libraries, but that is not entirely in line with the request I tabled last year, namely for digital assistance at every town hall you go to. That's where citizens run into the government. There must be all those people who haven't even been able to access the Internet; I believe there are more than 1 million. How does this proposal relate to my adopted motion? That's what I'd like to know from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The third issue concerns the integrity of governance. A number of colleagues have already spoken about this. This includes the question of how we deal with incidents at local level. When, for example, can we finally expect the driver's vog? But of course it is also very specific about the question of what the Empire does itself. Then it's about how we deal with whistleblowers, among other things. We have still not managed that properly in this country. There have been a number of scandals in the various departments. It plays with JenV, it plays with the Home Office and it plays with the police. I therefore want a reaction from the cabinet on how to better protect whistleblowers, so that we are not just going to confess this with the mouth, but are going to take it very seriously. If it plays on so many departments and so many implementation organisations, it is no longer an incident. I also mention SZW, the NVWA, and so I can continue with some examples. I believe that questions about independent supervision have been put to the colleague of the VVD. I would also like to draw attention to this in the context of the integrity of governance. In the same context, I would like to ask the cabinet about the role of ProDemos. The employees of ProDemos are doing a fantastic job. Everyone agrees on that and that is also apparent from the Joustra report. But the way in which guidance is given is very much wrong, while the ambitions are great to increase the number of visitors and the number of young people coming to our home. There's a grant relationship with the Department of the Interior. So I want to know how we deal with this subsidy relationship. Is it wise to continue now? Is it wise to stick to these ambitions? Secondly, Joustra says that the positioning of ProDemos is now not sufficiently clear because there is both a grantor relationship and a client relationship. My question to the cabinet is therefore how it feels about this double role and how it is going to be able to separate those roles. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u178	I welcome this comment. I do not know of any other parliament in the world that has outsourced the reception of young people and the provision of guided tours. We outsourced that to a party that also serves all kinds of commercial interests and raises commercial money. Doesn't the Labour Party agree with me that we should just do this ourselves from now on? These people are guests in our house, in our Lower House. Isn't receiving, guiding and touring people something the House of Representatives should just do for themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u179	Well, at least that could be an option. I see there's a double roll now. So this calls for an answer. I'd like to wait for the cabinet's response. Then I'm sure we'll get to talk about this at another time. I am mostly responding to the conclusions Joustra draws on this. Mr. Chairman. I know that we are still going to talk extensively about the renewal of democracy, but I would like to express my hope that we will start with a proposal to bring the electoral age back to 16 years. Young people are extremely active. All subjects concern them, especially now very much when it comes to climate, education and housing. I think that the time is right for this, and many young people themselves are happy to think so too, to reduce that electoral age to 16 years. I am therefore very curious to see how the cabinet is looking at this proposal and whether it intends to make the preparations to bring that electoral age down. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with two topics. The first issue concerns diversity. Mrs Den Boer and others have spoken very extensively about it. I would like to point out very specifically that the Empire itself is far from always setting the right example. Some departments are at the forefront of diversity and other departments are lagging behind, such as Defence, General Affairs and LNV. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The last issue concerns discrimination. Let me turn specifically to a motion adopted to combat Islamphobia. That motion was tabled in a debate on discrimination, because the Minister for the Interior is also a coordinating minister. But then she says "good luck with it, because I'm taking it to the Minister of Social Affairs" and it disappears somewhere in a gaping hole called the colonization of the departments. That's a trick we see all the time. It can sometimes be very legitimate, but it does not seem to me as useful on such an important subject as this. That is why, in this case, I should like to return to the Secretary of State, who replied on behalf of the Minister, to ask what is going on with this motion and how he intends to proceed with discrimination. Mr President, those were my questions for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u181	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. On behalf of the Christian Union, too, I wish the Minister a great deal of improvement and a speedy recovery from this place. We hope to be able to welcome her back in our midst soon. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replacing her here today and defending her part of the budget in addition to the part he is defending himself. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union stands for a government that is there for its citizens, that gives home and gives the government a reliable face, where as a citizen you really feel that the government is next to you and not in front of you. That is a big challenge and there is work to be done. From this background, we are looking today at the internal affairs budget and policy. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to mention the reliability of the board. At the end of last year, the Remkes State Commission, the Parliamentary System Committee, made an explicit appeal to us as a parliament: take good care of our democracy, do not regard it as a given and take responsibility for it yourself. If you want to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, then drivers who really promote democracy and the rule of law themselves must defend and strengthen. It is a call that my group takes to heart. We look forward to the debates in the Chamber on the proposals made by the State Committee. Mr. Chairman. The government and administrators must show that they are really there for the citizens and not for themselves. This culture must also be lived in municipalities, provinces, water boards and here in the Chamber, in our house, by the directors. Unfortunately, it is not self-evident. That's what we saw at the raid of the National Police in The Hague City Hall at the beginning of this month. That's caused a lot of turmoil. We have also seen in other parts of the country that the integrity of drivers can be vulnerable. The Christian Union appreciates the Minister's commitment to a resilient government. For example, there has been a basic scan for aldermen, there will be a legal obligation of a vog and the minister wants to strengthen the position of the mayor and the king's commissioner. My group believes that we need to do more. In a number of municipalities, a form of integrity investigation for local directors, prior to the appointment, is already being used. It forms the basis of a discussion with the mayor and/or the city council about the functions of a candidate driver, previous functions and other vulnerabilities, and about what you should be aware of, what you should be aware of. If such a form of control for directors can be found in any level of governance, it also reduces the threshold to enter into the conversation, also on-going a period of time. Is that going to solve all the problems? No, we don't think so. But it makes sure that integrity is really at stake when appointing directors and not just putting a check mark on them. What is the government's position on this proposal to introduce a legal obligation for this, a proposal that I have already put forward together with the CDA? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union also wants to look further at where even more local government is vulnerable. A vulnerability lies, in our view, in the financing of local parties. We see, on the one hand, that there is too little insight into the financial flows of local parties and that they do not have to justify their finances, as national parties have to. On the other hand, we see that they cannot claim the national subsidy and sometimes rely on more unorthodox ways of party financing. The Veling Committee, which has carried out research into the Political Parties Finance Act, also saw this interaction. I'll ask the Cabinet if it sees this. And what does the Cabinet think of the premise that there should actually be a level playing field and we should have the rules in order by 2022? I refer to the rules on the accountability of the finances of local parties and local departments, as well as of national parties, and to rules on transparency about donations. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. We believe it is important that these two points should also be regulated by law before the new municipal elections take place. I would also like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. I agree with the questions that Mrs Den Boer has already asked about the budget for the training of city council members. We have previously tabled a motion on this subject here in the Chamber. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of local government, I do not want to ignore the financial concerns that many municipalities have. It is difficult to explain to municipalities, but also to citizens, that in times when our country is doing well economically, municipalities have to intervene so strictly to get the budget round, and that they have to cut the level of provision. I would like to ask the cabinet to assess the scope of this financial problem with the local authorities, but also with the fellow executives. It does not just cover the social domain, but goes wider. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. At the General Reviews, a motion was also adopted on this point by Gert-Jan Segers and other MPs. I ask the Secretary of State at what time the cabinet will come up with proposals to provide municipalities with multiannual financial security regarding the step-on-step system. Mr. Chairman. Colleagues also asked about the right to challenge. We have received a letter from the Minister in which she writes that she wants to come up with legislation on the right of citizens to say to a municipality: we want to take over this task or carry out the direction of that task. We welcome the Minister's intention. But if we read the Minister's letter correctly, we read that it does not include an obligation for municipalities to lay down rules on this matter. As far as we are concerned, that is necessary. I'm asking the Cabinet to reflect on this. Why isn't that choice made? Earlier, in my previous contributions to budgets, I drew attention to the regions. For my group, it is very important that public policy, which is being developed here in The Hague, should benefit the whole country. Not only the Randstad municipalities and the big cities are entitled to a government that gives at home. Too often we see that policies do not look at the consequences for municipalities in the border regions or in the shrinking regions, municipalities that are affected by population decline. We need to make policies not only for Amsterdam, but also for Appingedam. That is why I ask the Cabinet today, once again with the CDA, to make the assessment of the impact on the regions part of the integrated policy and regulatory framework. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with an appeal on the democratic rule of law and its maintenance. That includes handing it over. A suitable time to do so is when people are allowed to vote for the first time. That's a special moment that can really be celebrated. I think we can do better than we do now. We are talking about young people, people who are just 18 and have reached the electoral age, but also people who have just received Dutch nationality. As far as we are concerned, this should be done at the time of the call for votes or in the run-up to the elections. In addition to the accompanying letter, give a red pencil, so to speak, now that we can still vote with a red pencil, a small attention or a handshake from the chairman. I also mention debates in schools and attention to social media. In short, everything that can help mark this special moment, precisely because we see that young people stay home more often and that they will vote more often when they have already voted at a young age. The Christian Union believes that we really should make a better effort to lead young people to the ballot box. Does the government see this point? Does the government share the Christian Union's view that there is an opportunity to excite people who are going to vote for the first time? I'd like a response to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u182	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u183	The Christian Union and D66 very much agree on the promotion of the integrity of local government. I think we are both in favour of the disclosure obligation that my former colleague Gerard Schouw, who was a Member of Parliament, once filed by way of a motion. But the question is what would be the ideal threshold for the Christian Union for this disclosure obligation. What amounts does the Christian Union, for example, have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u184	I have made a plea here, namely that the Christian Union wants a legal framework to be put in place to regulate the accountability of the finances of local parties. The Veling Committee has also recommended this. We really think we should follow that. The Veling Committee also indicated that you might be able to replace the audit with the publication of an annual report. But we can also look at a reduction in the threshold amount. At present, a threshold of €4,500 applies to national parties. I think that's really too high for local parties. That threshold should definitely be lowered. I find it difficult to make a statement about this now. I am not proposing to set out now how high that threshold should be. I think it is important for the Minister to work on legislation on this point and also involve a lower threshold in its implementation, as proposed by the Veling Committee. I would very much like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. Our point is that we have to settle this before the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u185	So a lower amount as a threshold. But then I have a supplementary question, namely: should this be monitored locally? I ask that because it was in that motion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u186	I do not have the motion tabled by Mr Schouw in my mind. In my opinion, the Financing Act includes political parties also supervisory provisions. That's gonna have to be part of that. Again, our plea and our appeal to the Cabinet is: work on legislation on this issue and make sure that it is settled before we enter the municipal elections in 2022, otherwise we will be six years away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u187	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I would like to join the Minister in wishing her well and thank the Secretary of State for replacing her here. If there is one figure that is very obvious in this budget, then it is that nasty zero for the referenda. My group has tabled an amendment to reserve EUR 10 million by 2020 for the holding of additional municipal referendums to practice with them. With the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act, the national referendum has been abolished, but the social and parliamentary debate on the binding referendum is in full swing. The State Committee on Parliamentary System advises such a referendum. Mr Van Raak has tabled an initiative law and the Council of State delivered its opinion yesterday. My congratulations to Mr Van Raak for achieving this milestone. There is still a long way to go before a possible legally secured referendum may take place. Thought formation is not yet crystallized, and that is precisely why, according to the 50PLUS group, it is necessary to continue to organise referendums. We have tabled an amendment to encourage and evaluate municipal referendums. Each referendum, including a municipal referendum, is an interesting learning moment. That is what we need for the careful determination of the position that the cabinet has in mind. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The city of The Hague looks back on turbulent weeks. Two aldermen are rightly or unjustly suspected by the Public Prosecutor of criminal offences. They quit and were later sent home permanently by the city council. Less than a week later, the mayor stepped down following the report on the near-disaster at Scheveningen with the piles of fire. If such a crisis occurred at cabinet level, new elections would be held. That is also in our election programme, and I am glad to hear from the VVD today that she is now thinking in that direction. But you can't do that in a city right now. Why not? The council and the college are increasingly entrusted with tasks and thus have an increasing impact on the lives of the inhabitants. According to the 50PLUS Group, voters should also have more say about their representatives on the board. Additional advantage is that local elections do not become hidden Lower House elections. What does the Secretary of State think of interim municipal elections? Is a trial possible in the context of democratic renewal? Last year we discussed the merger of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. In the meantime, the merger is in place, and the former municipality of Haren licks its wounds daily. Request on request, objection on objection: it could not have escaped anyone's notice that Heren did not wish to do so. Why did it happen? There are indications that errors were made in the process prior to reclassification. I hear great words like "wrong of the legislator" and that the ministry has failed in its mission to protect the inhabitants of Haren from careless decision-making in the province on the basis of its final responsibility as defined in the ARHI Act. I take this as a co-legislator personally, quite frankly, even though my group voted against the reclassification. My opinion is supported in the 2018 Annual Report of the Council of State, which calls for particular attention to the legislative process in relation to trust in the democratic rule of law. Has the process gone ahead of the reclassification according to the requirements that we have to impose with each other? That is the least we, as legislators, want to know. I can briefly mention many examples where it has gone wrong, but this does not reflect the utmost care. I therefore call for an independent investigation into the progress of the process prior to the reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. I like to get a reaction. If necessary, I shall table a motion on this matter. We're digitizing at a high rate. The less digitised citizens are becoming increasingly difficult to participate in this society. Think of older people, low-school people and people with lower IQ. The Minister strives for everyone to be able to participate in this digital age, but the special budget for this is unfortunately being reduced in the budget, from 1.6 million in 2020, to 0.5 million in 2021, and then to zero in 2022. Is that compensated elsewhere in the budget? It is time to include the less digitised citizens fully in the use of the budget for digitisation. I'd like to get a reaction to that. During the General Political Reviews, a 50PLUS motion was adopted for an online tool to make the budget accessible to anyone who wants to know where the tax money is going. Can I count on such a tool being developed by 2020? The Minister invests in experiments with circular building, sustainability and greening. 50PLUS asks the Secretary of State if he also wants to play a leading role in the realisation of escape routes for disabled people at state buildings. Municipalities have the opportunity to cancel taxes. They can lay down detailed rules under the law. Thus, it is possible that a low-income resident may be given a waiver. Small self-employed persons may be eligible for a waiver of their private tax debts if the municipality has opened the waiver for this group. The Minister of BZK writes that the cabinet aims at maximum employment participation. Deletion of municipal taxes may lead to a possible poverty trap when re-launching into the labour market. In this context, what does the Secretary of State think of AOWs without or with a small supplementary pension? For them, the argument of a possible poverty trap does not apply, because they are no longer going to work. They're already in a poverty trap that lasts the rest of their lives. What do the municipalities do for this group? Is it possible for them to legally regulate a standard discharge of municipal taxes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u189	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I'm actually looking at the clock. I think it would be wise to have dinner break until 8:15. Then we will continue with Mr Bishop, Mr Öztürk, Mr Baudet and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u190	We will continue to deal with the internal affairs budget. We stayed with Mr Bishop. Mr Bishop of the SGP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u191	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join all the colleagues who have wished the Minister well-being and strength and a successful recovery, and who have already thanked the Secretary of State, who is able to observe the honours of the Honours in a professional capacity. Mr. Chairman. It has sometimes seemed as if the Ministry of the Interior is mainly there to manage the renovation of the Binnenhof or to think in good time about what we really want: summer time, winter time or English time. But when we look at the budget, we will soon be helped out of that dream, because the present budget shows a lot of other things. For example, the Minister of the Interior is also responsible for responding to the results of the Parliamentary System Committee. They are working towards a balanced reaction and looking at where we can give it follow-up. For example, the state committee says: leave the election of the First Chamber as it is. To our great surprise, at the beginning of September in internet consultation, a proposal was suddenly made to find an alternative. The SGP notes and also notes that this is happening so quickly without any mention of the position of the State Committee in both Chambers once. That's procedurally strange. There is also little good to say about the content of such a review. The argument for this is lean and this proposal is unclear as to when the Provincial States should and should not choose a part of the Chamber. In 1983 there was not for nothing another model was chosen, because before that we had the model for which the cabinet now seems to be opting. Moreover, the concrete impact on the smaller parties, for example, has not even been identified. Those are also parties that the cabinet would not like to miss in the First Chamber; we are convinced of that. We would therefore like to hear that the cabinet is returning to this point. I would like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u192	We do not know the SGP as a party that always longs for new things, so returning to something before 1983 you must at least address at some point. But is your biggest objection the possible impact on the small parties? Or is it the idea behind it, namely that you may make the First Chamber less political by choosing it in stages, which you should address as a Member of the House of Representatives, I think, but also that the link between provincial and First Chambers becomes so looser, so that Provincial State elections can actually go over the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u193	I don't know if you're actually gonna loosen that band with that. I did find it remarkable that the proposal came so quickly after the disappointing election results of the First Chamber for the current coalition, let me put it this way without having been discussed. I would like to start the debate on this, but you would expect an orderly procedure, and I think it has been somewhat lacking. And I wonder if this serves the purpose that is intended. The question is very much whether you make the First Chamber less political and whether you let the Provincial State elections go more over the province, because the shadow of the First Chamber is always behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u194	However, the CDA was pleased with the proposal in the Minister's letter, because we are concerned that First Parliamentary elections are often presented as a kind of re-launch at Lower Parliamentary elections. That is what we think is wrong and not what the relationship should be, and we think that regional elections should really be about the issues there. But do I understand Mr Bishop that this is a fundamental objection to the system itself and not just the possible consequences for a smaller group such as the SGP in the Upper Chamber? Because I share that with Mr Bishop: it should not be meant to keep small groups out of the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u195	Thank you for this clarification question. I did mention it as a point of interest. I believe that in an adult democracy, especially in the system as we know it, it has added value if smaller groups can adequately represent smaller groups of people. If, then, as a result of a change in the electoral system for the First Chamber, you could make calculations on that, and if, in principle, small groups would all disappear, then that is all the more reason to consider very carefully once again whether we really want to do so. I am convinced that the strength of the democratic system lies in the fact that smaller groups and groups of society have a political voice, including in the Upper Chamber. I think that is a factor of importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u197	Mr. Chairman. The strengthening of local democracy is also a point on which I would like to make a few comments. It is a good thing that the necessary steps are being taken to strengthen local democracy. It is important that the municipal councils can simply do their job well. In this context, we call for particular attention to be paid to the monitoring of common rules. The point has been mentioned more often. Common schemes have also become increasingly important, especially for smaller municipalities. I would like to put the following question to the Minister of State or Secretary of State. How is it now achieved that municipal councils can exercise adequate political control over the common arrangements? What possibilities does the Minister or the Secretary of State see in this regard? Another point that we have often called attention to is the delivery of the corpse; that is what this ministry is about. At the beginning of the summer, the Chamber received a letter about the new ideas on this subject. The classic form of burial has now become extremely expensive here and there. The Minister points to municipalities for the different approaches to cost security. But local autonomy doesn't mean that people wouldn't be able to bury their dead because they couldn't put thousands of euros on the table, which it sometimes costs? The SGP has asked questions about this, but we believe that the Minister refers too easily to the political balance of the municipal authorities whether or not people with a small grant can get a grave. Buried may not remain reserved for a wealthy middle class or higher. The tombs must not be milk cow. That is also the case in the Cabinet, but if you look at the various components in which the cost allocation and the cost of burial rights are put together, you sometimes have the idea that it sometimes has the appearance of at least that. Engraving rights may only be a cost-covering contribution for the final resting place for any person wishing to do so. Does the Minister also wish to emphasise in the provision of information to the municipalities that it is a matter of social responsibility, respect for the deceased and the point that should remain possible for an affordable burial? Mr President, then there is a rather tricky point: calling for prayer. Anyone who puts his ear in our country will hear that more and more fortified prayer calls are being made in the Netherlands, not only according to the plans recently in Amsterdam, but also in many other places. Does the government recognise that there are many who have great difficulty with the regular declaration of creeds about urban areas? That's a little different than church chumps, because that's not a creed. The same applies to people who have fled their homeland precisely because of persecution or oppression. The question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he and the social affairs ministers would like to investigate the number of places where strengthened creeds are proclaimed about urban districts. The evaluation of the Public Events Act shows that the law can be better adapted to practice. The question is whether the rulers want to work towards improving the rules to prevent reinforced prayer calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u198	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u199	This point has been dealt with as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u200	The number of believers in the Netherlands is in the minority. The believers should support each other in order to live their faith, as we have also enshrined in the Constitution. When one of the SGPs does not want to see churchmen as faith and address the call for prayer with the Muslims, I think we are far down when it comes to freedom of religion. I would like to ask the SGP if she really does not see the church bells as part of the church and part of the faith. Would you like to open the way to forbid the call for Muslim prayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u201	I don't think I've expressed myself sufficiently clearly. The wording chosen by Mr Öztürk is not mine, namely as if the ringing of church bells would not be part of it. Of course that's part of it. I'm just saying it's not a form of creed. It's a form of drawing attention, pointing out. It makes some difference whether the classic medieval clock is ringing over the village or over the city or whether you hear Allahoe akbar. And that is another cry that, in a certain context, totally evokes shock reactions. In that sense... Maybe we can find each other. What if the mosques hang a church bell in the minaret and they ring, is that a solution? I mean, it's different in nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u202	You should be ashamed that your last name is Bishop. You really should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u203	Well, I wasn't planning on doing that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u204	I think if you're going to church on Sunday, you should really think about what you're saying right now. An age-old call for prayer is considered a reign of terror. And the church lazy think of you as classic. There are neighbourhoods in Amsterdam where infidels live who suffer from church laziness. We're behind the church. We're behind the synagogue. We're behind the mosque. We stand by all believers. You should do the same. You'd do the same with a last name like Bishop. You should be ashamed to attack another faith from the SGP. You are here trying to preach for your own parish and attack another faith, as in the time of the crusades.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u205	I find it a bit unfortunate that Mr Öztürk goes so far in his personal attack that he even includes my last name. Of course, he is free to do so, but that is not really the mores of this Parliament to my knowledge. So I'm gonna leave that for what it is. What I have argued is that I have tried to do so with all due care, and there is no denying that this is the case: the nature of the call from a minaret is different from the nature of the sound of a church bell. There's nothing else I can do. The one is a creed of faith pronounced over the village, the city or the neighborhood. The other is a call of attention or whatever you want to call it. You can't call the ringing of the church bell a call for prayer, can you? I believe, Mr President, that I have explained this sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u206	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u207	At the mosque the imam or the hafiz calls for prayer. People are called to prayer. I'm from Roermond. That's an episcopal city. For centuries we already have the Episcopal Palace, the Bishop's Court and the Cathedral. Every Sunday, the church bell sounds there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u208	That's the habit, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u209	I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u210	I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u211	I have no problem with that, because people like to go to church after church chumps. I don't understand why you're having trouble with a call to prayer. When people say Allahoo akbar, they just say, "Come to prayer, Allah is great." This has been done in all countries since Islam existed. There are billions of Muslims in the world. You're trying to take away their creed from another community of faith. This opens a very dangerous path for the believers in the Netherlands, also for your own faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u212	No more than I would agree with speakers who loudly preach or pour out the reverend's prayer from a church over the neighborhood, no more than I would accept it and would like to justify it, I want to facilitate a prayer call from the mosque. If Mr Öztürk says that I want to take away the creed from them, he really did not understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u213	Then I'm going to see Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u214	I am a friend of the SGP but I think Mr Bishop is too weak on this point. Surely the SGP could speak much more explicitly against the horrible prayer call of those tedious minarets that are far too high, of those far too dominant mosques in our streets in our country? Why is Mr Bishop fleeing into all sorts of quasi-universalist defenses? No, this country has centuries of Christian traditions and Christian roots. It's supposed to be here. That's our culture. That's who we are. If people from faraway countries with vast sand plains are so eager to come here to live here, okay, well, you can, but why can't you just say: no, this is the Netherlands, this is Sparta, this is the Netherlands we stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u215	I have referred to the centuries-old traditions and the centuries-old bells that become sound. When it comes to bringing forward and bringing into sight the Dutch identity at the moment that is sufficient. Why don't I plead for the real closing of mosques and the breaking down of minarets? It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u216	I didn't ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u217	We have a democratic rule of law. We are looking for means to regulate within the democratic rule of law so that everyone can profess his or her faith in the way he or she considers desirable or not, without violating constitutional rights and everything related to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u218	Every city, every neighborhood has something like a welfare commission, a monument care committee. Protecting the Dutch language, protecting historical heritage, historical and cultural heritage is an entirely normal part of any self-respecting nation state. The French law of 1905, which is sometimes called the Laicite by people who are not fully aware of it, that separation from Church and State, is not at all a separation from Church and State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u219	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u220	The State says from 1905: we are now going to protect the entire Christian heritage, because that is part of our national identity, even if people do not believe. That's just who we are. That's the nation state of France. The nation state of the Netherlands simply has to defend that. You don't have to be so careful. You don't always have to shoot into that Christian excuse reflex. You don't have to be so humble and cautious. Be proud of the Netherlands. Be proud of our fantastic religion, the best religion there has ever been and carry it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u221	Congratulations. I wish everyone that he could embrace the Christian faith with all his heart. I'd also like to talk about that further, even here from this cathedral. Only when it comes to the comparison made by Mr Baudet between the situation in France and the situation in the Netherlands, I think that is the crucial difference. A particular model was chosen there. That would fit in with what Mr Baudet says. In the Dutch situation, we are dealing with a specific Dutch democratic rule of law. Within that legal order, you cannot choose the privilege of a community of faith. In England, things are still different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u222	All right, now back to the Home Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u223	Yeah, but these are important things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u224	Everything's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u225	You can simply say: we have a certain national cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u226	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u227	That's what we're defending. In equal cases, cases are treated equally, but these are not equal cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u228	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u229	In that respect, I agree with you. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point about the General Data Protection Regulation. When dealing with this legislation, an amendment by Mr Van der Staaij was accepted that the size of companies should be taken into account in the implementation of the legislation. A motion has also been adopted to prevent any company, of any size, from having to appoint a data officer. In the meantime, we are a year and a half further, and we see the far-reaching consequences. For example, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings recently reported that, since the introduction of the privacy legislation, victims of trafficking in human beings have disappeared massively. Similar stories are about child care, because "well, privacy." Why does the government not take concrete action to make this General Data Protection Regulation more flexible and regulate it and take better account of the impact on small businesses and institutions, as well as on healthcare organisations? Surely it cannot be that privacy is so sacred that problems have to disappear under the carpet and those involved fall between shore and ship? Then the Municipal Fund. I'll be brief about that. I agree with the questions raised by several colleagues. It is fine to recalibrate the Municipal Fund, but we have already drawn attention to the imbalance between large cities and rural areas. My question is: will this review also make it clear whether sufficient account is taken of the specific situation in the rural area? For example, we can think of the problem of drug waste or the problem of undermining. There must also be greater stability in the level of benefit per municipality. Several colleagues have already underlined this. In the meantime, it has been a few years since there was talk of a larger local tax area, at the same time reducing the state tax area. Is our impression that this trajectory is going very slowly? Is it even true that there is not or hardly any movement in it? We are very much looking forward to the implementation of the framework conditions needed to make this battle. Mr President, first of all, I should like to say something about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u230	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u231	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by wishing the Minister well. I will also address my questions to the Minister, but the Secretary of State, who hopes to become Minister one day, can see that as if the questions were asked to him. That's okay! Mr. Chairman. DENK was founded to be the voice of many citizens who were not heard. DENK was founded to bring more diversity to the political representation. For too long, political parties have talked about groups of people instead of with these people. For too long, Dutch people with different origins were votaries for politics. Political parties lured these people with beautiful promises, which were then not kept. It is time for these citizens to have a place at the table to decide, to think and to govern. I myself was the first city councilman in Roermond years ago with a migration background. That was over 20 years ago, in 1998. Unfortunately, since then, I have seen little progress in terms of diversity. Women and Dutch people with a migration background are underrepresented in municipal councils and colleges, in the States and as delegates. This Chamber and the Cabinet are also not a reflection of society. Political parties fail to compile lists that reflect our country. Minorities and women are hampered in taking up administrative positions. This creates a distance between the citizen and politics, and a feeling among many Dutch people that they are not represented. This Minister recently announced measures in response to a survey on female council members. She will work for, among other things, greater diversity in the selection process and the active approach of candidates. DENK welcomes these measures, but they are allowed to be sharper and sharper as far as DENK is concerned. How does the Minister ensure that there is no commitment? Is the Minister prepared to apply these measures to allow more Dutch people with a migration background to join the public administration? Isn't it time to work in public administration with quotas? I would like to comment on this point. We're considering a motion on this. Mr. Chairman. DENK represents a democratic society in which the voice of all citizens is heard. Now that the elections are still far away, it is high time to examine the electoral procedure, because that is urgently needed. While other countries have already developed far, the Netherlands is still far behind. DENK wants to make a number of proposals to get the matter under way. Suggestion 1: the voting obligation. Our neighbours have been using them for years, and with great success. In Belgium and Luxembourg we see a turnout of almost 90% in European elections. In this way, citizens are encouraged to reflect on the political reality, a political reality with which many people feel less connected. What's the Minister's position on this? Suggestion 2: weekend votes, especially for Mr Bishop. DENK is convinced that weekend votes will increase the turnout. The figures from other countries show this. In Germany, for example, the elections since 1918 have been held on a Sunday for over 100 years. This resulted in an increase of 61.5% in Germany in the last European elections. This is high compared to the rise of 41.2% in the Netherlands. We see that not only in Germany, but also in other Member States of Europe which voted on weekends, there is a relatively high turnout. What does the Minister think of this proposal for weekend votes? Then the electronic voting card.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u232	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u233	I have a question for Mr Öztürk. Are you prepared to withdraw this argument in the second term if, in the meantime, between now and the second term, we show you the state of the exact turnout rates and the times at which the choice is made? Because it shows that your story, let me say it very kindly, on its SGP's picnic just doesn't add up, not for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u234	I can mention a number of countries that vote on weekends and where the turnout is very high. I'm always willing to be convinced with factual information. So I am prepared to talk to you between the first and the second term in order to look at it with factual information. Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u235	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u236	Mr. Chairman. Electronic voting cards. DENK sees an opportunity to make the voting pass electronically available to facilitate the voting process. Many voting cards are accidentally thrown away or lost by citizens. A lot of people don't find their way to apply for a replacement ballot. There is also an administrative burden on voting passes. That's why DENK says: send voice cards digitally, so that people can show the digital version at the polling station when they've lost their paper voting card. How does the Minister feel about this? Mr. Chairman. I've come to the right of demonstration. The right to demonstrate is a great thing, but are demonstrations subject to freedom of expression? DENK wants to zoom in on two examples. Last week, hate figures demonstrated against the arrival of a mosque in Enschede. They were screaming slogans like "Mosque? No, no, no, "No mosque in our street" and "No jihad in our street." Earlier we had crazy demonstrations of Pegida supporters who wanted to roast a pig for a mosque while people went to prayer. Hate banners are hung on mosques and people sometimes need to be accompanied by the police to pray because there are demonstrations. Many Muslims are terrified by these demonstrations. Many Muslims feel affected by this in their fundamental rights. It's like we haven't learned anything from history. Are we going back to the 1930s, when there was also demonstration against religious groups? Are we going back to a period when a group was watched marginalized? Where's this going? Are these hate demonstrations going to be normal? Does the Minister understand these concerns? Does the Minister agree with DENK that such demonstrations against mosques should be banned, or should at least be held far from prayer houses? Is the Minister prepared to consult with municipalities where demonstrations against mosques have taken place and to investigate whether this is the right of demonstration or rather harassment and hate speech? I would like to comment on this point. We are considering a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u237	Do you know what Mr Öztürk should stop doing? He must stop using the 1930s and 1940s against us to defend the sub-rights of his own sub-group, as if it were some kind of trump card, as if it were some kind of reference for which every resistance then deviates: oh, it was like in the 1930s. You should stop doing that. The only comparison you could make yourself is an introspective. It goes back to the Armenian genocide that your country has been responsible for. You should think about that. You should vote for humility. You have no right to come here with such big stories and apparently want to make us feel guilty with a nowhere-based reference to the 1930s.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u238	For a long time, I have the word "who are you?" Not used, but you're talking about "us." Who's "us"? Who am I? That kind of theater story of yours, do you think people fall for it? The case of the Armenian question, the case of "we have a Christian culture." We have a Jewish-Christian-humanist-Islamic culture in the Netherlands. We have people who are secular and people who don't believe. Are you trying to put a play here that tells the story that Holland is yours, of those who would think like you, and that we are not from the Netherlands? Those days, Mr. Baudet. The PVV tried. I'm not gonna fall for that. I'm not gonna fall for that. You don't have to come up with that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u239	I think that's actually exactly what democracy is. That is the battle about the question: whose country is this, what ideas does this country have, what cultures or culture is this country, what kind of country do we really want to be? When I hear Mr Öztürk, I hear someone standing up for immigrants, for immigrants, in the name of Mr Öztürk, and now it comes! This is something he accuses us of, namely the 1930s and the 1940s. I think that's a hypocrisy, I think that's a crooked equation. I think that if Mr Öztürk wants to talk so much about black pages in history, he should start with those in the history of his own country Turkey. That's the Armenian genocide. Until the point has come to which it has been fully recognised and has been worked on in all levels of awareness, he has no right at all to beat us with anything and everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u240	I am so pleased with our Constitution. I'm so happy with our laws. Who decides who has the right to say anything? You?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u241	We'll talk to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u242	That's what our Constitution dictates. Those are our rights. Mr Baudet is nothing less and nothing more. He thinks he can take a plane to Ibiza, hang out with some rich people. With a few racists around him, who kind of justify him being a little bit more than a MP here. And with these kinds of suggestions to come to me! He's nothing. And that's what I mean by our country, our values. Our values are recorded here. That goes for you and me. And if you're trying to marginalize me and if you say "the thirties"... yes, if you're standing up for the Nazis in the thirties, you should say so now. In the 1930s and 1940s, the Nazis destroyed our country, the Netherlands. And if you're gonna go for that style, like, "Let that happen," it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u243	I am going to say something about the level of this debate. Once again, it is about the budget of the Interior. I think there has been enough exchange on this point. And the level is not getting better, I tell you, Mr Baudet, but also to you, Mr Öztürk. One final comment, and I would suggest that you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u244	Thank you, Madam President. As always, I appreciate your input. But I still want to go back. The point I want to make is, in my view, very essential and substantive. This is because the issues that are currently being raised with regard to immigration and integration, in terms of how we want to shape public space in our country, are issues of today's day. It's a moral blackmail to keep the Holocaust and the 1930s around the corner, and everything that's happened, a repetition of this and that. I think that is a forgery of the debate. That is a very false and annoying way to hijack the discussion, to create some kind of moral high ground and not to talk about the issues that are just actually playing right now. That is why I say that Mr Öztürk is very quickly prepared to remind us of the black pages in our history. Pages that we recognize as no other culture in world history. If something defines the West, it is our ability to admit our own mistakes. I haven't seen that in Turkish culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u245	You've made your point. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u246	If Mr Baudet had learned from the mistakes of the 1930s, he would not be there. Mr Baudet says, at the moment I stand up for those who cannot confess their faith because it is obstructed, that I cannot stand up for it. I will also show you the results of the study: 91% of Muslims are afraid. If, at the moment I give an example of what history has led to, he stands up for the Nazis, then I think: then we are far down, you know. So Minerva's owl and all those stories are true!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u247	I really want to introduce...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u248	So that whole story is right when you come up with these kinds of suggestions from 'you cannot take the thirties as an example'. Then you say: I crave the thirties!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u249	No, Mr. Öztürk. I suggest that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u250	You must stop doing this now: marginalize me from Turkish culture! I am a Member of Parliament for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u251	Continue with your speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u252	And I think it would be a good idea for Mr Baudet to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u253	Good. Continue... A personal statement by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u254	If you knew anything about my family history, you would see how wretched this remark is, that there is nothing in me that somehow would defend the Nazi idea. I am not going to go into it at all, but this is such a wretched, bizarre remark that I would like to have said something about it for a moment. I'm not gonna let that go on my side like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u255	You did. Mr Öztürk, I would actually like to make the suggestion that you proceed with your speech. He's made a personal statement. You really don't have to respond to that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u256	I would like to say that I have been in the public administration for 21 years: 15 years of Councillor, 6 years of States, 7 years of MP. And then there's this kind of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u257	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u258	...hearing comments about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u259	Don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u260	... Turkey and Turkish culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u261	Mr. Öztürk, it's been said. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u262	Then I think, those words I just had...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u263	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u264	Mr. Chairman. I come to the area of housing market discrimination. 90% of real estate agents in the housing market are involved in discrimination. A distinction is made on the basis of origin: "You can't live here because you don't look like I want to" and "You can't live here because you don't behave like I want to." All this was also demonstrated by a sample carried out by DENK. A lot of real estate agents hit the mystery calls of DENK Rotterdam council member Enes Yiğit. DENK wants to know what's going on with the Azarkan motion passed to throw brokers who break the law out of their industry organisation. DENK also wants to know what the Minister is going to do to combat housing market discrimination in the near future. Will the budget available to combat discrimination in the housing market also be made available for a long time? When is the Minister finally prepared to take discriminatory brokers and shams? Mr. Chairman. Then the subject of Muslim discrimination; here it comes. From Meld Islamophobia's research on everyday experiences with Islamophobia, shocking conclusions followed. Of the respondents, 91% indicated having had direct personal experiences with Islamophobia. 91%, chairman, and then you get questions like this. 74% of respondents indicated that they have become less safe as Muslims over the past five years. 1 million people and 74% of these are citizens of the Netherlands. In addition, almost half of them do not feel free to express their Muslim identity. Yes, in the 1930s that was the case with the Jewish community; I would like to mention it again. 69% are very much concerned about their future in the Netherlands. These are shocking outcomes, I say to the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to draw up an action plan against Islamophobia? The government rightly already has concrete action plans for, for example, pregnancy discrimination, but why not an action plan for Islamophobia? Why doesn't the government come up with an action plan on Islamophobia as soon as possible? On this point, we are considering a motion. Finally, I come to the intelligence services. Citizens complain that the government doesn't listen to them, but the government does. The government's bugging its citizens. DENK had serious objections to the unlimited tapping of information by the services, as did the rest of the Netherlands. This has been demonstrated by a clear referendum result, a result in which a majority of Dutch people said no to the drag law. They say no because of objections to privacy-sensitive data. They say no to sharing this privacy sensitive data with abroad, but these objections were not taken seriously. The law has been passed with a few lousy changes. AIVD and MIVD would obey the law, but they didn't. They shared data with foreign services. That's what CTIVD concludes. Can the Minister guarantee that the services comply with all the rules now? What about the improvement measures? What is the Minister doing to ensure that the services comply with the rules? Why does the Netherlands actually share information with foreign intelligence services? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands does international intelligence and cyber work for the superpowers. In Mali, the Netherlands has been gathering intelligence for five years for the military mission there. The Netherlands shares information with other countries against its own rules. The Netherlands has also played a crucial role in sabotaging Iran's nuclear programme. According to intelligence sources, it was also the Dutch intelligence service, the AIVD, that helped the Americans and the Israelis to infiltrate. The result is that our intelligence services are being abused by superpowers. Then we are going to have a cyber war with large countries. The result is that banks are being hacked and the average citizen suffers from it. And who's gonna pay for all this damage? Are those the great powers? What is the Minister going to do to make our intelligence services work for our country and not for the superpowers, which puts our country at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u265	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, whom I saw just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u266	I thought Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen would speak first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u267	No, it's the budget order. That's why it's your turn now. This is a different order than usual in debates. Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u268	Thank you, Madam President. There she isn't, the minister. We see an empty chair, because she's not here today. The coalition did not agree with the proposal I made together with Mr Bosma of the PVV to postpone the debate. It was supposed to take place today, and that's bizarre. Because today's greatest anti-democratic force, the Minister of the Interior, is not present in the debate on its anti-democratic policy. I cannot remember having experienced this before in the House of Representatives. We'll talk. We will have this debate. We will put forward our views, but only after we have expressed our great surprise at this situation, that we should in fact talk to an empty chair. I think that is a violation of democracy. One more, on top of all the others she already has on her conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u269	Mr Öztürk is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u270	Can anyone be sick from Mr Baudet? Being sick just means having surgery and then being advised by the doctors: you need to rest at home to get better. Is that okay? Or are you saying a minister shouldn't be sick? A minister is a robot, a minister is not a human being, she has to come here and listen to all those miserable words from Mr. Bosma and Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u271	I believe that the coalition should have agreed to our proposal to postpone the debate until a time when it can also be present. That's happened a lot here in the Chamber. There are many shifts in the agenda. If there's a reason why a minister can't be there, that can be illness, it can be another reason............................................................................................................................................................................................ Because it is a fundamental principle, I think, of a democratic debate that you can also look each other in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u272	And democratic debate also means: if a majority does not support the proposal, it simply does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u273	I know, but I don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u274	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u275	I'm gonna settle for it. I'll keep my story, but not until after I say I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u276	Then you made that point. Mr Öztürk also made a point. We're not gonna talk about the minister and illness and that sort of thing. That's already been done. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u277	Mr President, you are right to note that a democratic decision has been taken and that you object to the fact that the coalition has taken a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u278	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u279	No, but that's what I'm telling Mr Baudet. Someone who is sick, for whom a good explanation has just been given, you stay away from that! A sick employee...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u280	Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u281	That's not the point, is it? Mr Öztürk once again misses the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u282	Wait a minute. This is just gonna... You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u283	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u284	You made your point about the Minister's absence. That's what changed outbursts today. So I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u285	I totally agree with you. I also find it very tiring at times how Mr Öztürk is frustrating the debate. Mrs Ollongren has abolished the referendum. That really is a unique experience in the history of democratic countries. I would just like to point that out. After 40 years... D66 was established to introduce the referendum. Now they have introduced it, then comes the first referendum and there comes something that does not please them, namely a no to a bizarre treaty with an extremely corrupt country where extremely corrupt legbattrichipps run around, who now come to the Netherlands, and a lot of other nasty things. So they'll have to abolish it. That is such an incredible violation of all democratic principles! You enter a referendum, the people give the wrong answer once in the eyes of the importers, and we abolish it. This is happening rapidly, also in violation of all good procedures, in order to implement government policy on climate madness, on-going immigration, Marrakech immigration pact and EU power control. I know that is unprecedented in democratic history. A coupe of the cartel, a perpetrator, a henchman. I cannot stress enough how bizarre it is that the party that was set up to introduce the referendum has abolished the referendum. But that's not the only thing Ollongren did. I mentioned her in that debate two years ago as the assassin of democracy. This assassin has continued shooting. She's going to mint on free speech, the free debate. Not only did the vote of the people have to be abbreviated through the referendum, but the free exchange of ideas also had to be abbreviated. It supported the establishment of a censorship agency. She went to all kinds of television programmes and engaged all kinds of meetings to counter fake news. Fake news had to be fought. The social media would be full of all kinds of trolls. None of that turns out to be true at all. It all turns out to be total bullshit. In a report published by her own ministry, all accusations are levelled. We live in a country of a lot of authentic and original and critical and interesting people who are discussing the truth with each other, but when there are people who find things that Mrs Ollongren doesn't find, she thinks it has to come from fake news, from manipulation, from trolls from dark states east of Poland that would do things with advanced technology in all possible ways. And that must therefore be contained. That's the second thing she does. Then the third. It was not only after we won the referendum that the referendum had to be abolished. Now that we have won the Provincial State elections and have become the largest party in the First Chamber on 20 March 2019, the elections need to be changed. Now there must be a different electoral system in the eyes of Mrs Ollongren, because there too she cannot stand her loss, she cannot stand the fact that there are other votes, that there are people who do not agree with her. I wonder: if the Forum for Democracy will win the Dutch Parliamentary Elections in a year and a half, what will happen to our electoral system? Is it going to make a major change to this in spite of all the opinions of the Council of State and of all the other organisations? Is that what's going on here? Is that the tendency? Is that how the cartel defends itself: first abolish the referendum, then curb the free debate by a censorship agency, then change the elections so that there is no longer a electoral system in which changes in the population can move quickly into the political system? Yes. There is still a fourth way of manipulating this minister, who is now absent here, and that is the funding structure. The largest party in the Netherlands, the largest party, with no doubt, will receive a grant of €0. The local parties in the Netherlands in all municipalities do not receive any money and the cartel has again paid itself 9 million extra in grant. We are going to table a motion in the second term to make that money directly available to all local parties in the Netherlands in proportion to votes and size, because that is the parties that deserve our support. Since Tocqueville, since Thorbecke, all those theorists of democracy have been writing about it: democracy originates in the small scale, in the bottom-up organizations of small local parties. We need to support them, not those lousy cartels we see across the street every day. And then the final point, Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u286	Mr Baudet has an important point: the financing of local parties. The Minister has said that she wants to look into this and also want to see if money can be made available for it. As a CDA, we are interested in what the minister comes up with; that will be somewhere next year. It is true that the Chamber has adopted a motion, which Mr Baudet voted against, to release money for political parties. Mr Baudet is seriously opposed to this. Can I conclude from this that if the Chamber does not follow Mr Baudet and these funds are made available to political parties, which Forum for Democracy is also part of, he will not receive those funds? Or, if the Chamber decides to do so, is the Democracy Forum going to receive these funds in spite of the objections that Mr Baudet is now raising?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u287	This remark reminds me a bit of the following. You're gonna play a game of football and you're gonna say, guys, I don't really agree that the ball has a certain color or is made of a particular leather. Eventually you lose that and that ball gets that color. Then someone asks, "Are you never gonna touch the ball again?" No, we are playing the democratic game as it is under the current rules, but that does not mean that we do not see fundamental changes ahead of us. We see a much smaller government in front of us. We see a society in front of us of much more resilient citizens who operate much more independently, think much more from their own strength and not always have to look at the government, because that government is not as suffocating as it is now. I think that the CDA, traditionally the farmer's party, has dropped incredibly stabbing here. You, in fact, have completely abandoned that very independent, quirky, enterprising population, the farmers, with a mess of rules on nitrogen and phosphates. These people are becoming less and less proud of their work and less and less able to do their job. This is all part of the general trend towards bureaucratic despotism that we are watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u288	Apart from the support of the CDA for farmers, today is Abraham Kuyper's birthday. That has not yet been mentioned, so I thought: this is the occasion. You don't have to teach the CDA anything about building something bottom-up. He founded a party, founded a church and founded a university and did not want to be dependent on the government; see the words Vrije Universiteit. That's where we'll find each other. But I conclude that if the Chamber releases money for political parties, which Mr Baudet absolutely, absolutely does not want, and the cheque is also written for Forum for Democracy, he will receive that check. That's all I can conclude, and I think that's just inconsistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u289	That's nice, because I recently met conservatives from Seoul in South Korea. They are now making a book with collected essays by Abraham Kuyper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u290	Yeah, well, you didn't know that, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u291	I was sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u292	Oh, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u293	There is even in the United States at a university an entire institute that focuses on what Abraham Kuyper has learned about sovereignty in his own circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u294	Yeah, but that has nothing to do with South Korea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u295	That is true, but so is South Korea. There are people who come here specifically to do everything that Mr Kuyper has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u296	Okay. Now back to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u297	I would like to thank Mr Baudet very much for being able to emphasise this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u298	Back to the budget. Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u299	I come to my last point of concern. We're talking about all kinds of sub-topics and stuff. South Korea is coming over and I know what's going on. But what is happening here is a very fundamental undermining of the core values of democracy. You give the people the right to vote, a referendum, and it will be abolished once. People have freedom of speech in a public debate, on the Internet, and it's just being censored gradually. You have a electoral system that parties use. Newcomers also make very successful use of this. And you're gonna change that electoral system. And now we have seen the issue of funding. 30% of all local municipal elections are won by parties that are not members of the cartel, and they do not receive any subsidies. And the last point will come up again. For years, Forum for Democracy and other parties have been warning that our way of counting votes in the Netherlands is as leaky as a basket. We have all kinds of bizarre discussions about totally unbelievable Russian hacks in rented second-hand cars going around the IPCC and all that. But what is really a blind spot in our entire security system is that unprotected USB sticks are brought on a bike to an aggregate computer in a municipality, which adds up to a non-encrypted system without blockchain security, and that those physical computers themselves are set up in an unprotected place during the year. It's just absurd! If you told anyone this, he'd just laugh at you. Is that the electoral system in the Netherlands? It's so ridiculous! And she, who is not there in box-K, simply refuses to modify that system. If you add up all those anti-democratic reflexes of her: abolish the referendum, restrict the free debate and also change the electoral system, subsidies for existing parties but not for newcomers. And she refuses to make the election system, counting votes transparent. Madam President, not only do I find that harmful, I find it suspicious. We are either going to table a motion in the second term or we are going to support a motion in order to put forward a very concrete proposal in the very short term to make the counting of votes transparent. Because this system really can't go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u300	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. She is the last speaker on the budget this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u301	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wish the Minister well and a successful recovery. Mr. Chairman. Our democracy must be strengthened. A new electoral system, the binding corrective referendum, the elected reformer, a constitutional court; they are proposals from the Remkes State Commission. "Modernisation of democracy or the risk of erosion of democratic institutions and the democratic rule of law lies ahead," Remkes concluded. We now have the opportunity in this House to take the first step towards a more vital democracy by introducing the binding corrective referendum together with far-reaching opportunities for citizens to advise and adjust the government. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to Mr Van Raak for submitting the legislative proposal to introduce the binding corrective referendum. This brings hope back to the horizon for our democracy. To regain the confidence of the ever-growing group of citizens who have been disillusioned by the way in which traditional political parties cast their ideals and even abolish the party crown jewels, when they were created to protect them. Or take the idealist parties, which called on these citizens to vote for them in particular, because all their fine plans would require the courage of enough brave citizens to become a reality, but which, after the elections, demolish their idealistic electoral programme into explanation of vote and which themselves will not take initiatives to present these fine plans. It is a blow to the face of the citizen, who is standing on the sidelines again for four years without participation and will eventually turn away and no longer vote. Our task here is to represent the people, to weigh up all the interests and to take decisions that have the support of society, serve the public interest and protect the most vulnerable. According to the Council of State, the binding collective referendum can "contribute to reducing the feelings of isolation, alienation and exclusion existing among certain citizens." I very much agree with the author that this referendum is the crown of our democracy, and not just the safety valve, as the Remkes Committee calls it. There will be no bad laws that have no basis for acceptance. This restores citizens' confidence in politics. Mr. Chairman. It is indeed an outdated system for the Dutch citizen to show up once every four years to throw a ballot into a bright clique, while forms of direct democracy, such as referenda, offer much more opportunities because of the many technological developments. e-signature collection for participation procedures, referenda and citizens' initiatives on public websites should be provided for. In Italy, they were not prepared to wait for the government, and we saw how the Five Star Movement, with its Internet democracy, turned established parliamentary democracy upside down. Where the argument so far has always been that for practical reasons there had to be an administrative group to govern society, communication technology together with computer e-democracy as in Estonia has been made possible. Why is there still no legislative proposal to allow citizens to vote through their DigiD, I ask the Secretary of State. We can ask the citizens much more often for judgement, especially when it comes to subjects that were not foreseen at the time of the elections. The Ministry itself states: elections are at the heart of democracy. It is therefore to be encouraged that next year, in 2020, the government will continue to engage in digital citizen participation. I also believe that the public authorities should be able to be held accountable every day by the citizens. Mr. Chairman. One problem of these plans is that they are limited to local authorities. Why does the Minister confine himself to local authorities? And how does the government prevent public participation from turning out to be some kind of drama game, a tick that needs to be set up by civil servants, a must? The strategy of the government seems to be that citizens have to talk and provide input, but what are these conversations worth if the government is always free to ignore the opinion of the public? Why don't we just let civilians decide instead of just talking along? And even then there's a thought step missing. Because why does only the local government level experiment with digitized forms of participation? Why doesn't that happen nationally? Why does the outdated national system remain in place? Once every four years, and after that, it is for the citizen but hope that parties will adhere to their own party programme, which citizens have voted for. Mr. Chairman. Experimenting with local democracy is great, but it remains the national government that ultimately sets together the framework of policy for municipalities. Looking at the cuts in recent years and the far-reaching decentralisation of all kinds of public policy, I dare to predict where this is going. The involvement of citizens at local level will allow citizens to fight among themselves who will have to bear the austerity or the consequences of half-baked decentralisations thrown over the fence, or who will be excluded from the regulations and thus out of the way. After all, the government in The Hague has already decided that the austerity will be achieved. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, another question arises. If the government is working on an experimental law for new ways of voting, if voting is easier and faster to count, why is the parliamentary process so far behind the modernisation of voting? Don't the digital possibilities offer citizens the opportunity to vote more often? Do we, as the Netherlands, finally want to risk e-democracy? Mr. Chairman. I can tell you that I am sorry that the tone of my story on such a beautiful subject as democratic renewal does not quite fit in with the democratic party I would have liked to celebrate, but this distrust comes from somewhere. This brings me to my last but no less important point, the secret services and the drag law. Certainly institutions with the power of the State must be able to answer to the people in any situation, which is also the renewal of democracy. Of course, there is every understanding that, because of the nature of the work, secret services often do things outside the eyes of the public, but there is no understanding of the pattern in which the intelligence services ask permission from the cabinet, all privacy watchdogs indicate that the request is wrong, the secret services reassure the people with inimitable language and the Dutch later read in the newspaper that the secret services have abused this permission. This year, too, it was again when it became clear that the intelligence services were systematically tapping too much satellite traffic. What was going on back then? Last year's much discussed research mission-oriented interception from the tow law allows the services to intercept large amounts of communication in bulk. It also collects data from individuals and organisations that are not the subject of research. Services should minimise the acquisition of non-necessary data by means of filters. The secret service supervisor found that filtering was not sufficiently effective from the point of view of preventing unnecessary interference and violating the fundamental rights of innocent citizens. In addition, the intelligence services left it to destroy the unnecessary data. An internal control of the composition, operation and adjustment of the data filters was not carried out structurally. How can it be that the services say structuralally that we can trust them, but that they do not respect the rules in a structural way? Can the Secretary of State please explain this clearly? Finally, Mr President. Let us not forget that security begins at home and that protection against the whims of the security services is therefore just as important as the intelligence functions of the State. Also privacy is security. Just privacy is security. Privacy offers us security and protects citizens, among others, against the State, a protection that unfortunately often turns out to be necessary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u302	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. This also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-18.u303	On Thursday, we will continue to deal with the Home Affairs budget. Then the Secretary of State will reply on behalf of the government. For now, I'm suspending the meeting. I thank the MPs and I'll see you later.
