ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	The Court refers to the amendment of the Income Provision Act for the elderly as a result of extending the duration of that Act and increasing the age of entry (35294).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS agrees with the cabinet's intention to extend the IOW Capture Network for four years. In fact, we believe that this law is an important safety net and not just for four years, which should be the basis in the Netherlands for older workers who, despite efforts by government and social partners, become unemployed or disabled. The aim is to provide benefits after the end of the WW period. It's never higher than 70% of the minimum wage. That's definitely not a big deal. It is a benefit that is vital for the elderly unemployed, because it does not look at equity and own house. The misery that you have to eat your home at the end of your working life is so spared. The income and assets of the partner are also excluded. This prevents additional income loss after the end of the WW benefit. Despite all the efforts of the cabinet, the labour market position of older people remains fragile and vulnerable, especially once they become unemployed. With the increase for accession to 60 years and 4 months for the IOW, 50PLUS does not agree. As a result, the 55-plus group with a precarious labour market position is more or less left to their fate, with 12 more years to go on the labour market. Indeed, at the end of the period of high economic growth and extreme labour market shortages, there is now a good catch-up of 55-plussers returning to the labour market. That is good, but we have to look at the overall labour market picture of older people. First of all, the employment rate of the category 45 plus is 20% to 30% lower than that of the age group 25-45. 55-plussers are still overrepresented among the long-term unemployed. 26% of the unemployed between the ages of 25 and 45 are looking for work for more than a year. But for 45-plussers, that share is 54%, and still very worrying. Half of the almost-retired people live on a benefit or sometimes have no income at all the year preceding the pension. Once unemployed, 55-plussers are evidently much more difficult to get back to work. This is even more serious for 60-plussers. Very likely the 55-plussers who are now at work and have just got to work will be the first to go out again. And thanks to this cabinet with a sober retirement allowance, which makes their income position even more vulnerable. The benefit I've already said is granted from 60 years and 4 months. But you'll be on your 60th beach with your WW benefit: so tragic and so shining. That is precisely why 50PLUS calls on this minister to be more generous and to extend deadlines. If this minister has so much faith in his own policy of the Labour Market Act in balance, whereby you fire people cheaper in order to be able to take them back faster, he must be open to that. That does not cost much, because according to this minister they will be adopted again soon. We have a hard head in this and believe that in a rich country like the Netherlands you cannot have the greatest risk of poverty if you are fired as a 55-pluser. That is why we have tabled an amendment to raise the entry age to 55 years. That is social and it is a protection for those who need it. But we sincerely hope that it is not necessary, because everyone is at work and remains at work. Finally, we believe that not only the partner's wage, but also the survivor's pension, which has been deferred, should not be deducted from the IOW benefit as other income. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mrs Tielen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I am always a little shocked when Mrs Van Brenk puts the border between young people and older people at 45 years, because then I may not be on the right side as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. Working is important because it gives people so much more than just income: social contacts, appreciation, experiences, development of your talents and skills. It is therefore sad when people become unemployed because of dismissal or other causes. Fortunately, there are more and more people at work, and that is what is needed. All the talent is needed in the coming years, young and old. It is good news for the VVD that last week it turned out that 55-plussers are coming back to work. With the legislative proposal before us, the safety net for over 60 people in the case of unemployment is adapted to the adjustment of the AOW age. The VVD supports this bill. After all, it is not easily digestible that older unemployed people have to eat their homes or hard-earned savings which, of course, are meant to eat if they do not return to work soon. Mrs. Van Brenk said this, too. So the VVD supports the bill. But let me also use this moment to ask the Minister a question. The IOW, as this law is officially called, is evaluated as part of the evaluation of the Work and Security Act. We want to know how the Minister is going to evaluate this law. We will assess the effectiveness of the law on the impact on all workers and jobseekers. Does the law contribute to paid employment for men, women, young people, the elderly? What perverse incentives has this law been able to prevent? The VVD wants not only quantitative but also qualitative insights as part of that evaluation. It is important to find good answers to the issues this Chamber is going to address in the coming year when it comes to labour market developments and how we can regulate them. Can the Minister indicate how he intends to handle the Work and Security Act? Can he promise that he will also make qualitative evaluation research part of this evaluation? That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. Mrs. Van Brenk has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	I would like to return to the remarks of the VVD. I'll talk about the generations in Social Affairs later. I was also put away in "45 years." That is what is happening, Mrs Tielen, and perhaps you do not read enough, because you see those category groups at UWV. That is why I could see in the figures that it is above and below 45 years old. Not because we draw that line, but because you can see very clearly in the figures of UWV who is unemployed and who is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	I was not under the impression that I was putting Mrs Van Brenk away in any way. If that's how she experienced it, I'll take it back. I certainly didn't mean to. It was more of a joke about my own progressive age. It's a good thing it increases a little every day. Of course, Mrs Van Brenn is right. When we look at categories, we always have to lay boundaries somewhere because we cannot make policies on every individual in the Netherlands. Mrs Van Brenn is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then that's fixed. I give the floor to Mr Van Kent. He speaks for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We think this law is a good idea. We will certainly support the law. Of course, we would have preferred it to be a structural extension. This is also evident from our written input. Unfortunately, it is necessary to maintain such a system, because it is the realistic forecast that the position on the labour market of people aged 55 and over will remain problematic. We believe that this age should be reduced rather than increased to 60 years and 4 months. Nevertheless, it is an improvement on balance, because otherwise the IOW would end and that is an even worse idea. I would like to make two points about this Minister. The first concerns the agreements already made during the period when someone had a WW benefit on the job application obligation. We find it very strange that if an agreement has already been made, that agreement will not continue at the time of the transition to the IOW. Would the Minister give the UWV an indication that the existing agreements will be respected in the transition from the WW to the IOW? The second point concerns partner income which does not count in determining the right to an IOW benefit as opposed to a survivor's pension. The income of the partner in life does not count, but the income of the partner after death counts. This can ensure that there is either no entitlement to IOW at all or that the IOW benefit is reduced. We find that very strange. I understand all the formal arguments and how they are contained in the law. The Minister also shared this with the SP when we asked for them, but since we are dealing with the laws and rules, I would like to ask him again if he is prepared to amend those laws and rules in such a way that that difference is eliminated. I have a motion for that too, but I will keep it until the second term, as is the case with a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I call Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group also supports the legislative proposal and the age that is being detained. In my view, this is a response to a proposal by Mr Stoffer when dealing with the Labour Market Act in balance. I think it's nice to remind you of that one more time. For the entire duration of the extension of the IOW, the age of entry and the age limit is set at 60 years and 4 months. So it doesn't go up. I also think it wise that a transitional arrangement has been put in place for people who have been for 60 years. We also support this measure. I got pretty worried e-mails about that from people. So it's nice that this is also in the bill. I also think it wise that this is a temporary extension. It's still a bit of a search. On the one hand, we really want to invest in sustainable employability in the pension agreement. On the other hand, we see that the employment rate of people over 55 is going very well. The employment rate has increased from 59% to 69% over the last six years. At the same time, of course, Mrs Van Brenn is absolutely right that people in that age group who lose their jobs are still having more trouble getting back to work and experiencing age discrimination. In practice, it can also be seen that there is a high risk of poverty in this particular group between the age of 55 and the retirement age. On average, this is really higher than for people who receive a pension. In that sense, I think it is quite justifiable that we do this in balance. I read that the Council of State is quite critical. In my own words, he says, "Aren't you sending the wrong signal?" As far as I am concerned, it is and-and: we are doing this because there are still problems. Let me ask you a question about this, which I will no longer do in the budget. There will also be resources for sustainable employability. As far as I am concerned, they should not only go to RVU schemes; early retirement schemes. Can career checks possibly become part of the use of these resources? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Then we go to Mr Stoffer speaking on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. I was surprised, because I thought Mr Van Dijk was ahead of me. But I'm ready. Mr. Chairman. It remains a special experience when you see some bright stars in the sky in a dark night. They're light against a dark background. This experience is a symbol of the situation of older workers in the labour market. The government calls those lights for this group. It is positive that the drop-out to work among 50- to 60-year-olds has increased from 2016 to 2018. In addition, the number of unemployed has fallen since June in the 45-75 age group. At the same time, the background remains dark and the new day doesn't seem to break. The number of 45-plussers in the assistance fell by only 0.6% in June. The number of WW benefits among 55-plussers has increased. As mentioned earlier, the chances of getting back to work for 50-plussers are still significantly worse. Employers simply see it as a major risk to employ older workers. Mr. Chairman. There are two things to expect from politics. First of all, it is important to avoid a large income drop and, for example, to avoid the need for older people to consume their wealth in those last years. Mrs. Van Brenk named that. The Minister will therefore not be surprised that the SGP is positive about the proposal to extend the special scheme for older unemployed and not to increase that age limit further. Mr Van Weyenberg has already explained why we are so positive about this, I think. There's another thing going on. That is the commitment to providing more opportunities for employment. As far as we're concerned, we need a shovel on top of that. Indeed, there are benefits for employers to employ older workers, such as the tax wage gain. Unfortunately, however, the evaluation of the Action Plan Perspective for over 50s shows that this awareness of employers has not increased in relation to the past. That's just too bad, because we miss out on a lot of opportunities, even in smaller companies. My question to the government is therefore whether it intends to launch a publicity offensive in order to get this regulation much more widely known. At the same time, I would like to ask the government to look openly at alternatives that may be even more friendly to employers, even when it comes to administrative burdens. I am thinking, for example, of the suggestion that employers should be allowed to pay older benefit recipients at a minimum wage for a year without employers' costs, provided that they offer a permanent job at a collective wage after one year. I wonder what the government thinks of that thought. Finally, Mr President. The legislator has made working after retirement more attractive. That is a sympathetic movement for this group, because then you also just participate in society and many people just like that. The SGP likes to hear from the government whether it is now known what the effects are on the group of older workers under the retirement age. Do the opportunities of this group take away precisely because the position of the older group is attractive to employers? As far as we are concerned, we must avoid playing groups against each other before or after retirement age. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr President. GroenLinks supports the cabinet's intention to extend the IOW. In practice, we see that the labour market position of older people, of people over 60 years of age, is poor. Raising the age limit to 60 years and four months seems a little random to us. We have read that it has mainly been a financial consideration to put those four months on top of it. Whether with those four months more, 60 and four months instead of 60, you suddenly have a much better chance of getting a job, we ask ourselves quite frankly. That is why my first question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to see whether that age limit can be reached at 60. I also have a question about the survivor's pension. Quite frankly, I could not quite follow those answers in the written set we had. On the one hand, the cabinet sees the IOW as an individual benefit, which does not look at the partner's income. But when it comes to survivor's pension, it suddenly becomes a safety net provision. We actually think that's a little crazy. In our view, that also contradicts each other. If we have agreed that the partner's income does not count for the IOW, which seems very reasonable to me, then we should not include the survivor's pension. In addition, the survivor's pension is not deducted from the WW. I would also like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has requested a brief ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	I give the floor to the Minister to answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Before we talk about the budget this afternoon, we will first discuss the Income Services Act for the elderly unemployed. In short: the IOW. It will be extended by four years. That was in the coalition agreement. On top of that, an amendment by Mr Stoffer was tabled to the Labour Market Act in balance, which sets the starting date and the starting age for that period. I feel broad support for this law and I like it. It is true that Mr Van Weyenberg said that, in my view, it provides for a transitional right to prevent people between 60 and 60 years and 4 months from falling between shore and ship. Yes, that's settled. But the IOW's right to exist has shifted. The introduction of the IOW, at the time of the Work and Security Act, was designed to cope with too rigorous consequences of the shortening of the duration of the WW. Over time, the target has shifted. It is now a final safety net that prevents unemployed 60-plussers who have not yet found a connection to the labour market from falling apart. It is important to make that comment. With the extension of the IOW, I am not related to the effects of the cabinet's efforts to tackle unemployment in general, but specifically among older workers. It is, as I said, a temporary safety net, which will be extended by four years. As you know, the government has an active policy to increase the labour market opportunities of older people. We continue to keep an eye on this group, which indeed has a vulnerable position on the labour market. Mrs Van Brenn is absolutely right about that. Together with the social partners, we have an active policy for this. I would like to mention two action plans that have been specifically targeted at this target group from 2013 to the end of this year: the Perspective at Work programme, which also includes older people, and the intensified service provided by the UWV to help older people to work from a benefit. A number of speakers have also said that the employment rate of older people is improving. This is partly cyclical; Mrs Van Brenn is right in that. In the third quarter of 2019 there were 9 million people with paid employment. That's 106,000 more than at the end of 2018. Every quarter you see the number of jobs increase. Over 60% of this growth is accounted for by the 45- to 75-year-olds. That's pretty impressive to see. In particular, the number of working 55-plussers is increasing very strongly. Of course, this also has to do with shifting the AOW age and phasing out the VRS and pre-pension schemes, but these participation rates are impressive. That is a good thing, because that will give people who have been sidelined another chance to participate in the labour market. But is it done with that and let us leave it to the market? No, because a disproportionate proportion of unemployed people over 60 remain unemployed after the WW. We can see that, too. The chance to return remains smaller than for younger age groups. That remains a focus for the cabinet. This bill is intended for this particular group. As you know, the Action Plan Perspective at Work is now being evaluated. Soon I'll inform your room about that. I think we also have an AO on this point. I'll take a look at the clerk. Isn't it? This will soon be addressed in the Labour Market AO policy in December. Then a few specific questions that have been asked by your room. I shall begin with Mrs Tielen's question on the evaluation of the Work and Security Act. It is already running; it was announced before 2020. There are indeed quantitative aspects, but also qualitative aspects, precisely in order to get a broader picture of the effects. So it is already running and these questions are taken into account. Mr Van Kent, as well as others such as Mr Smeulders and Mrs Van Brenk, asked whether I think it is right that the survivor's pension should be deducted from the IOW and how that relates to the exemption from partner income. The objective answer to this question is that the survivor's pension is a benefit which is offset by the IOW, because in the General Income Decree social security laws the benefit under a pension scheme is considered to be other income. That is a technical argument, but a domestic one: we obviously have the assistance, the Participation Act, in which by default there is a partner test and a power test. In other words, if you have a earning partner or have a wealth, you have to either eat the wealth or use your partner's income before you qualify for a welfare allowance. In the IOW the same system actually applies, except that the partner income is excluded and also does not apply a capital test. The survivor's pension is, of course, just an income for people, so that is not counted as a partner's income. I understand that this is difficult to explain, because it is often poignant situations in which people are widowed or widowed and have this income, but of course that is the origin of the broad social security laws. I am not going to change it with this law, because it applies to all welfare and participation laws. This principle also applies to the IOAW. I see Mr. Van Kent standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. Van Kent, you're not entirely on the microphone, but you get the floor anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	I hear the Minister saying "the formal answer is," so I'm waiting for another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	The last sentence was also my answer: I do not intend to change this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	So all we get is the formal answer. Don't you think it's weird that the partner's income doesn't count in life, but that the partner's income does count after death? That is a very strange situation, which we should say together: we understand how the rules are put together; we are going to deal with the laws and rules; we are going to amend those laws and rules so that we can put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	Again, the normal rule for the assistance and Participation Act is: if you have a earning partner or have assets above a certain threshold, you are not eligible for welfare benefits. You'll have to build up your assets first, or you'll have to feed on your partner's income. For people who do not have a partner, it is true that this cannot be settled. If the partner has died and there is a survivor's pension, that is an income for the individual. If that's too low, you can qualify for a supplement. But the starting point is that that's income for people when they're unexpectedly widowed or widowed. That's the arrangement. It's in the IOW, it's in the IOAW and it's in the Participation Act. This is also the starting point for the broader general income decision social security laws. You can't beat that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	The Minister doesn't have to worry. I understand what's going on and I understand how it works. My argument is precisely that it is unfair in the way it is and how it works. The SP has made a point of this and other parties too. The question for you is not to explain to me what is going on, because we know that by now, but whether you are prepared to see how that can be adjusted, so that the deferred wage is not deducted from the IOW benefit, and the partner's salary is not. That's a weird contradiction. It is contradictory, and it is also unjust. It gets people in trouble. That is why once again the question to the Minister. I don't need an explanation of how the scheme is now in place. I ask him about his willingness to see how these rules can be adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	I just said I didn't intend to change this. The comparison made by Mr Van Kent between deferred pay and partner income is, of course, wrong, with all due respect. Delayed pay is pay after retirement, and survivor's pension is an insurance for income relapse after the loss of your partner. Those are really two different arrangements. But again, I have no intention of adjusting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Van Kent, we're doing the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	Then I'm gonna file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u29	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Smeulders asked a specific question about the WW. The same reasoning actually applies. The WW is an individual right, so if you have a WW benefit or a WIA benefit, that is a right you have as an individual and then the partner income is not deducted from it. This applies to assistance, to the Participation Act, but this does not apply to employee insurance. From the same reasoning: it is another source of income. If you have a WW benefit and a earning partner, you don't have to turn in your WW benefit. From this background, another regime applies. Mr Smeulders, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Van Kent asked about the entrance age of 60 years and 4 months. It has its origins in the coalition agreement. We have extended the IOW to 2023 and also linked it to the increase in the AOW age, namely five years before the AOW age. Of course, a great deal has happened there over the past year. The pension agreement has been partially delayed. Mr Stoffer has tabled an amendment to the Labour Market Balance Act in order not to allow age to grow with the increase in the AOW age but to fix it at those 60 years and 4 months. You can set up a whole tree about whether those 60 years and 4 months are fundamentally different than 60 years. Of course it is not, but that is the origin of the idea of five years before the AOW age. If you would like to extend it, Mrs Van Brenk has tabled an amendment which I shall return to in a moment. But this is the background of the established age. I implemented it directly into this law. Mr Van Kent asked if there were any agreements on the application requirement during the transition from WW to IOW. Can the UWV take that into account? The IOW is subject to the same rights and obligations as the WW. If there are specific agreements, e.g. on training that is being followed, that could be a reason for exemption from the application requirement, then the IOW is in principle also covered. I'm not aware of any signs that there are problems, but I'll check with the UWV to see if it's a problem in practice. I'd like to make that commitment to you. I suspect it will not be a problem because the same rights and obligations will apply in practice and the customization remains for the UWV to relieve people from the job application obligation if they are in training. But I am going to ask about it and then I can inform you about it, for example in the Labour Market Policy AO in December. I hear it's January. Then I'll send you a short note or I'll take it with me in another collector's letter that I'm sure will still be heading towards your Chamber. Mr Stoffer rightly drew attention to the unknownness of all the schemes in place to support older unemployed people in the labour market. There are a number of things going on. Of course, we have the Action Plan Perspective for 50+. That is currently being evaluated. We can also draw lessons from this evaluation on how to better highlight these good examples. At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, for example, we have also developed the financial CV. That's actually a kind of A4 that a job seeker can take to a potential employer and state what you're entitled to if you hire that person. This may include, for example, the wage cost advantage for older workers. But it remains a focus of attention to bring all the regulations that exist - no-risk policies and such things - to the attention of employers. The monitoring report will be discussed in the AO on 15 January. Then we can talk about it in detail. In any case, I am prepared to continue to reflect on how we increase the awareness of these arrangements. That will also be part of that evaluation and its follow-up. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the career gap, as it is popularly called, could also be part of the development of sustainable employability under the pension agreement. As you know, I consider sustainable employability to be an extremely important issue for the future labour market. EUR 800 million has been earmarked in the pension agreement to give real impetus to this together with the social partners. This is currently being worked out together with social partners in the steering committee, together with the pension contract and all the other matters. As far as I am concerned, these career checks are certainly a possible part of sustainable employability. As you know, I myself made EUR 15 million available last year. This scheme is about to expire, which is being evaluated at the moment. But the signals I get from the workplace or in the country, when I'm on a job visit, are that there's a lot of enthusiasm about that arrangement. But I have to wait for that evaluation, because we always do it scientifically and validated. He'll be coming to your room soon. As far as I am concerned, this is part of sustainable employability, but again, I will go into this in consultation with the social partners. Mr Stoffer specifically asked for alternative suggestions to help older unemployed people, for example Mr Stoffer's suggestion of being able to work for a year without social contributions and without additional employer charges in exchange for offering a permanent contract or a permanent appointment. I find this an interesting thought. We are, of course, thinking more broadly about the active incentives for employers to employ older unemployed people. This also fits in with the Action Plan 50Plus. I'm taking this suggestion with me. We have also had the variant to grant a premium exemption for the first year; such variants have also come along. We can discuss this further in January in the Labour Market Policy AO. Mr President, finally, Mrs Van Brenn's amendment. This is particularly about the starting date: according to the amendment, it does not go to 60 years and 4 months, but to 55 years. The amendment is covered by the LIV money, the low income benefit. I must advise against this amendment, on the one hand, because I have set this age of 60 months and 4 months on the basis of the coalition agreement and Mr Stoffer's amendment to the Labour Market Act in balance. On the other hand, I also made an agreement in the pension agreement, in particular with the employers' organisation but also with the trade unions, on a different use of the LIV funds. I let you know that in a letter on this subject last week, if that's all right. At least I signed the letter; I don't know if you read it too. I am now in agreement with the employers to use the remaining amount more effectively and efficiently on this point. That is why I must advise against the amendment. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS will agree to this law. We think it is very important that this safety net is at least there. We continue to believe that the survivor's pension should not be deducted; the point made by several parties. We really hope that the Minister will reconsider this. Secondly, I would like to have a statement from this Minister on the firm action of this cabinet against age discrimination. That is a very important point, especially for older people in the labour market. We see that coming back more and more often. I would also like to have a statement from this Minister on the issue of sustainable employability. We have argued that if people want to continue working, that possibility should be there. We have recently seen that police officers were called upon if there is a shortage and also teachers. We have called on the doctors to help the CBR with the inspections and the like. That could be simplified a lot. Perhaps the Minister could answer the question of whether he would have an additional role to play there, for example in collective agreements, in order to encourage this. Mr. Chairman. Once again, we are pleased that this legislation is in place. I would like to ask the Minister a question of conscience, but I think I already know the answer. If we were to find another financial cover for this amendment, would the Minister approve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mrs Tielen. It shall waive a second term. I call Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It remains odd that the partner's income in life is not offset by the IOW benefit and the survivor's pension that comes from the same partner, though. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the partner's income is not deducted from the IOW benefit and a survivor's pension;]] [[asks the Government to treat a survivor's pension in the same way as the partner's income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35294-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Van Brenk drew attention to strong action in the field of age discrimination. I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenn. As you know, the Secretary of State has an Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, and age discrimination is an important part of that. So very once. As you know, the government agreement also provides additional funding for the SZW inspection: 50 million extra, a large part of which goes to fair work and part to combating labour market discrimination. That it is still a problem, I agree with Mrs Van Brenk, and that we must continue to pay attention to it, too. Mrs Van Brenk's second question dealt with sustainable employability and, in particular, the possibility of continuing working after the retirement age. I have often spoken about this with Mr Roald van der Linde of the VVD during the pension debates over the past few weeks and months. I have also sent a separate letter about it and I have spoken to social partners about it. My view now is that there is no obstacle in the legislation to continue working. A lot of employers certainly see bread in this tight labour market. You gave the example of the police employer this week, and there are still specific questions about doctors, for example insurance doctors at UWV or company doctors. There are therefore no such obstacles. These obstacles have been removed in recent years, but it remains an individual choice between employer and employee, who must agree on them together in good consultation. I have recently informed the social partners whether they are opposed to this. That is not the case. Finally, a question of conscience: if there were any other financial coverage, would I approve it? The honest answer is I wouldn't do that. You are right about your question of conscience, but the LIV argument is a good one. I don't see any reason for that. Madam President. You won't be surprised that I am dissuading Mr Van Kent's motion. The point is this. The IOW is an exception to the rule. The rule is: if you have a Participation Act benefit, if you have a welfare allowance, then there is a capital test and then there is a partner test. That's the rule. The IOW makes an exception to that rule. Mr Gijs van Dijk is looking at me. That's right. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The exception to this rule is possible with the IOW. Now Mr Van Kent uses that argument to compare the survivor's pension. That's a really different situation. The survivor's pension is an insurance of income loss because your partner dies unexpectedly. Then that is income, but that is really a different scheme from the normal welfare scheme where a partner's income is precisely a reason not to receive assistance. I hope I have explained this clearly. It's a complicated system. I advise against this motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u36	This brings you to the end of the second-term answer and we have come to the end of the treatment of the amendment of the Income Provision Act for the elderly as a result of extending the duration of that law and increasing the age of entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-4.u37	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, because after this you will continue with the Social Affairs and Employment budget. All day!
