ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the acquisition of AkzoNobel's chemical industry. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, as well as the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. There have been six speakers. Everyone has three minutes' speaking time. For the first time, I'd like to meet two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. A year ago, one of the Dutch largest companies, AkzoNobel, sold its Specialty Chemicals component to the private equity investment company Carlyle. He received a loan from the State Fund from Singapore. The reason for this sale was not the poor market conditions and neither did Akzo's operating results nor the Specialty Chemicals component. The sale was motivated by the desire to pay shareholders a short-term dividend of more than 5 billion in 2018 and 2019. So these are more than 5 billion that are not invested in the company and not in the Netherlands, but they usually disappear in foreign hands. The case has a background. AkzoNobel threatened to be taken over by PPG in its entirety in 2017. By blocking this hostile takeover, American and British shareholders, in particular, who missed their takeover premium, felt disadvantaged. They have actually been paid off with the vast majority of the proceeds from the sale of Specialty Chemicals, which is now called Nouryon. A well-functioning business has actually been sold to spawn American and British shareholders. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has written to this Chamber to attach to the harmonious Rhine model. Does he not agree with the SP that in this case we see much more the effects of the Anglo-Saxon shareholder model, where the desire for short-term profits can directly conflict with longer-term business interests? If so, how can we protect our companies from these effects? Carlyle's business model is to buy up companies or business lines and sell them again after a short period of time. It is obvious that they intend to do the same with Nouryon. Moreover, the company is saddled with most of the debt of the loan needed to buy the company. Carlyle needs a quick win. Nouryon's new top manager has already talked about an aggressive strategy. And in the meantime, the investments that are being made take place in America, where the company also wants to go public in the future. Meanwhile, the more than 2,500 Dutch employees are actually on the sidelines in this process. Although they have helped the company to build up, they cannot do much more than use their legal advisory rights in this type of business; an advice that is subsequently ignored. If this is the Rhineland model, then we must conclude that it is really nothing more than an optical illusion: the appearance of participation to ensure that reality seems less serious. Mr. Chairman. I would like to put two basic questions to the Minister. In the first place, is he prepared to come up with further proposals to strengthen the position of employees vis-à-vis shareholders, precisely in order to counter the negative effects of corporate takeovers or the rejection of business parts? Second. How are we going to prevent large Dutch companies from being so defenseless for foreign shareholders in the future, aimed at short-term profits, that they must also have the negative impact on the employment associated with them? How can we arm ourselves against this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr. Chairman. In Groningen we sometimes use the proverb: what doesn't itch, you shouldn't scratch. Honestly, last year it was quite itchy when the news came that Akzo, for reasons which Mr Futselaar has just explained, sold a large part of the business to investors who seem to be focusing in particular on short-term profits. That made me feel very unpleasant. There were concerns as to whether employment would be affected. There were also concerns about the continuity of the company. Mr. Chairman. We've been a year. Mr Futselaar already referred to the Rhine model. Apparently, that Rhineland model did work, because AkzoNobel's central works council gave a positive opinion. There was concern about the collective agreement and the social plan, but last autumn there was a new collective agreement and a new social plan. The company's continuity prospects are good. On the other hand, I share the concern about what will happen if the company is re-sold and completely pumped into debt. Does that threaten longer-term continuity? I have more concerns about a number of other developments. In particular, it is a question of protecting public interests. At present, the influence of companies from the Far East, among others, is topical. Are our companies, and certainly the vulnerable key companies, sufficiently protected for the Dutch economy, for example, in the telecommunications sector? I also agree with Mr Futselaar's question as to whether the long-term interests of workers are sufficiently protected. I have seen that the SER merger behaviour rules were evaluated in 2015 and what have been amended. But shouldn't the ambition be to go a step further in order to protect workers from disadvantage as a result of what I call flash capitalism? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u5	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been some time since this debate has been requested. I've been looking for what I'm actually going to say here. I would like to support the questions put by my fellow Members. If you take stock of the situation, it is very painful, especially for the employees of AkzoNobel. What happened? AkzoNobel has in the past made an acquisition in Britain and that did not go quite well, also because that company had huge hidden pension costs. That is now settled at a price of EUR 600 million. We also see that AkzoNobel was criticized for her operations. Maybe some of that was justified. I've also spoken to people from the chemical industry. You can see that they are in a way happy with the takeover because they were the underprivileged child and there is now more capital available for investment in their activities. This translates into an excellent new collective agreement and Nouryon's willingness to look at the pension problem. Who's with the fried pears? The employees of what is still AkzoNobel today. Now I know that the Minister cannot do so much about it. It's not about a self-employed occupational pension fund. That's how we arranged it in the Netherlands. A number of critical comments have rightly been made about shareholder capitalism, short-term profits and the fact that employees often pay the price. We are now also engaged in a pension discussion in the Netherlands. We live in a time of increasing protectionism, where the game is played harder. My question is, therefore, whether the Minister, in consultation with his colleague, who is primarily responsible for it, should not even look at weaknesses in our system, including the role of occupational pension funds, which would allow for a repetition of these situations in the future, so that something could be done about them. I myself do not have ready-made solutions for this, but I would ask him to take it up with his colleague in Social Affairs, because there is a reasonable chance that such situations may continue to occur in the future. That is my most important question for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u7	There is an interruption by Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u8	I can go a long way with Mr Van der Lee's reasoning. He said that as far as Nouryon is concerned, the conditions of employment and so on have been properly regulated. In general, that is also true. Only the Carlyle fund has as standard to own a company between four and seven years and then sell it again. That's their model. So also employees for whom the pension is now reasonably regulated are in great uncertainty about what will happen in the coming years, because it is in the hands of a flash capitalist. Doesn't that worry GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u9	Sure. That is also the background to my question to the Minister. Look, we can't just change this system, even if we want to. They're listed companies. They are subject to the discipline of the market. This means that companies can also come into the hands of companies with a primary financial stake. At the moment, I do not have the impression that people are just drawing capital from that branch. It seems as if we are currently investing, but probably with the aim of raising the value of the company in the short term, to sell it attractively. At least, I could; I don't know. But I am concerned that we should look at what we can do from a political point of view in this type of company, which has pension schemes and occupational pension funds, whether self-employed or not, in order to build in more guarantees, so that those workers will continue to have certainty about their pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u10	Mr Futselaar, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u11	The value has already been taken out of the company in a way, because a debt of about 6.5 billion has been placed on the company's balance sheet: the money needed to buy the company. So in a way, Carlyle's already done the grab. The point is as follows. Mr Van der Lee said that a company must submit to the discipline of the market. That is true, but it must also be subject to Dutch legislation, if they are Dutch companies at least. Of course, we have opportunities to intervene, for example by creating more room for workers or by other protective measures. Does Mr Van der Lee see opportunities there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u12	Oh, yeah. I have often argued from this place that we will have to take a number of additional measures to protect ourselves better. This has partly to do with shareholder capitalism, but also with certain states that also have companies................................................................................................................................................................................................... I believe that the Netherlands is lagging behind. We have to come a long way, too. We are a very open economy. We have always praised free trade, but we live in a different reality. And now there are other countries that already have a new industrial policy. We are still waiting for our China policy. Choices are already being made in Europe. We are still waiting for what the cabinet has as its agenda in this area. So I think we'll find each other there on the same side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u13	Thank you. Happy ending!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u14	Always!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u15	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u16	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are debating the acquisition of AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals, now called Nouryon, by the Carlyle group. The reason for this debate was concerns about the impact on employees, such as the impact on their pensions. On 18 April last year we received a letter on this matter from the Minister. In it we read that the working conditions are guaranteed for at least two years. But what happens after that? Last autumn, the top man declared himself in favour of strategic investments of up to EUR 300 million. What's the status? We know that Nouryon is currently working together within the S/park in Deventer, but the question is whether they will permanently anchor themselves in the regional ecosystem. What can the Minister say about that? Mr. Chairman. The CDA stands for a fair economy and for the Rhineland model, i.e. for companies that connect the interests of shareholders and employees, are socially rooted and focus on long-term value creation. That is why the CDA has agreed in the government agreement legislation that allows companies to better protect themselves against hostile takeovers. There will be a statutory reflection period of 250 days and a reduction in the percentage of shares in which shareholders have to report. In that case, drivers will know whether there are activist locusts hopping in their garden. When do these laws come to the Chamber, so the CDA asks. Mr. Chairman. During the sale, there was also discussion as to whether vital technology would come into unwanted hands. The Nouryon website states that the company is a global market leader in the essential chemistry needed for the production of everyday products. The government agreement also made agreements on the protection of vital sectors. In addition to the water supply and energy network, Schiphol et cetera is also looking at agricultural land and regional infrastructure, such as the Westerschelde tunnel, at the request of the CDA, to identify it as a vital sector. However, we have still not received an overview list and only one concrete bill has come to the House of Representatives, the Unwanted Control Telecommunications Act. When will the list be drawn up and when will there be more legislative proposals, so that Dutch companies such as NXP, Deltares and Rijk Zwaan can be better protected? The CDA also wonders which ministry is primarily responsible for legislation on vital sectors: is that EZK or Justice and Security? Companies are now sometimes forced by activist shareholders, who only look at the short term, to sell parts. In addition, there are grey areas in relation to companies and sectors that are vital. Is the Minister prepared to ask the Scientific Council for Government Policy to draw up an opinion on both points? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u17	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u18	I have a question for Mrs van den Berg, if the President will allow it. One of the very first debates we held together in the Chamber has already been about this. It has been six years since a hostile takeover of KPN was threatened and that discussion has begun. Do you have any idea why it's taking so long? We have asked many times about these legislative proposals and measures, and we are already past half of this cabinet period. Does Mrs Van den Berg have any idea what that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u19	That is exactly the question we are asking the Minister. My maiden speech was indeed about protecting against hostile takeovers on the one hand, for which we need to give more tools to the board, and on the other hand the protection of our vital sectors. KPN is mentioned by Mr Van der Lee as an example. That's when, I'm just saying, that turned out okay. We are sorely waiting for this legislation. So we also hope to hear from the Minister why it takes so long, because to my knowledge Mr Van der Lee has even more knowledge of this from his history, I think a first list of vital sectors was already available in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u20	Like Mrs Van den Berg, I am really looking forward to the answer, but I still feel that there is also a certain reluctance, which really has to do with our tradition of an open economy, which has always been in favour of free trade. We still have a great deal of difficulty with this, unfortunately, as is the case with the cabinet, to relate to the new reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u21	All I can say is that as far as the CDA is concerned, we have to stop being naive. That does not affect free trade and that you are in favour of companies being able to work together and merge, but in some cases you also have to look at your national security interests and protect those kinds of companies. On the other hand, you have to make sure that companies can protect themselves from hostile takeovers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u22	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say to Mrs Van den Berg: welcome to the Land of Ever, here in The Hague. Everything's going slow here. Even the elevator doors open slowly and close here, so you don't have to expect speed here in The Hague. I've been waiting 13 years for that. Since 2006, the PVV has been trying to prevent takeovers of companies serving primary necessities, such as the energy companies, together with the Socialist Party; otherwise we did not get anyone on our side. Apart from the companies serving primary necessities, we are also dealing with companies of national interest, socially and/or financially and economically. Those are companies that should never end up in foreign hands. In this respect, we must be much more chauvinistic and may we take an example from time to time to the French, who are a little stronger than we are. Unfortunately, we could not prevent the takeovers because, as I said, it ended with the Socialist Party and the PVV and so there was no majority in parliament. That missing majority of the Chamber didn't work out. I may not be able to judge that; that will be evident from the parliamentary survey that is going to be held. There was also a lack of will or incompetence among the various Cabinets. Because let's face it: that also turned out to be the case with the De Wit Committee, of which I myself have been a member for years. Even though I quit three weeks in advance, I've been in it for almost two years. We have long argued for an independent investigation into the squandering of primordial-Holland companies. For the minutest I say that is with -sch; thank you, ma'am. An independent investigation into primordial Dutch companies, irrespective of whether or not the Dutch State is a shareholder. During my investigations for the De Wit Committee, it appeared that shareholder drive contributed to the various financial crises, with -es, because plural. AkzoNobel also allowed the shareholder interest to prevail over our national interest. There are watchdogs to prevent unfair competition and abuse of power after possible takeovers, but who really independently investigates the consequences for our country? That really doesn't happen too much. No one's gonna intervene. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. He may want to launch an investigation to avoid a parliamentary survey. In fact, I wholeheartedly supported Mrs van den Berg's motion for a resolution on the reflection period. I even believe my name is underneath it. For we are gradually losing power and strength, our culture and our traditions, but we are also losing business with which our small country has grown big. Very briefly: I like to get a reaction to everything I've reported here. I would also like to ask what the Minister's position is with regard to an independent investigation into the squandering of Dutch companies. I also ask the Minister to use all of his ministerial powers to prevent future takeovers of companies of social and financial-economic national importance where possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u24	Thank you. Just for the Acts: it's the stenography service and not a minutest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u25	Yeah, sorry. I apologize. That's what I meant. When I said it, I thought, "I'm not doing it right." It's the stenography service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u26	Here's to it. It's good in the Acts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u27	Look, I'm a South Limburger. I'm from the Eastern Mining District. We make more mistakes here and there. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u28	No problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u29	At least I didn't mean to be derogatory or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u30	I don't think either of us took it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u31	Madam President, we once had a chairman who had been a teacher. When I was talking about a school teacher, I got the chairman that the word "school teacher" was derogatory, and I don't know any better than a school teacher's name is a school teacher. So you can see that sometimes I don't do it willingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u32	No, definitely not. Thank you, at least, for your contribution. Then I give the floor to Mrs De Vries... Oh, there's been an interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u33	It took you a long time, Mr. Moorlag! 'Cause I was almost gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u34	Yeah, I was just chewing on the term "ur-Holland companies" with -sch. Mr Graus said that these ancient Dutch companies, with -sch, should never be in foreign hands. But what about the other way around? Are Dutch companies allowed to exploit supermarkets in America, as Albert Heijn does, for example? Albert Heijn is an original Dutch company, with -sch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u35	If I am going to table motions in the near future, it will be very explicit. But I have also made it very clear in my speech that I am talking about companies that serve a primary purpose of life, such as energy companies. They must never be put into foreign hands: payment security, security of supply, independence from abroad. I also mentioned companies that are socially or financially and economically of national importance. The Minister is about to tell us exactly which companies belong to it. I am, of course, a Dutch representative of the people, so I am in favour of our country and our companies. Whatever they're taking over will be more difficult for me, but I'm protecting our companies. That's what I'm here for: to protect us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u36	I do not get a clear answer to my question as to whether Albert Heijn, for example, is allowed to operate American supermarkets. Finally, in order to define these vital companies: does that include KING Peppermint? This was founded by the Tonnema family, but is now also taken over by an international company. KING is, especially for the people who visit the church on Sunday, a vital Dutch company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u37	Sure. I'm a big fan of KING peppermints anyway. They work well against abdominal cramps and stuff. Peppermint does a lot of good. KING is a company for me that I'm very proud of. But judging whether that is a company of national importance as I mean it now, we will leave it to the Minister. But of course I would prefer to leave all these primordial-Holland companies in Dutch hands; let that be clear. And I already answered that question about Albert Heijn. I'm not talking about what Albert Heijn is doing abroad. I tried to explain that by saying that I am a Dutch representative. I am trying to protect Dutch companies, our jobs and our economy. But I'm not going to discuss what those companies are doing abroad. That's not up to me. That's what the Americans are about. I wish the Stenographic Service a very blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are, quite rightly, extremely proud of our companies, of our SMEs, of our family businesses, but also of the large companies. In order to preserve and flourish entrepreneurs, businesses and businesses for our country, and also to ensure that they create jobs here, the VVD has been working for a good location and investment environment for many years. And AkzoNobel, which we are talking about today, is of course a good example of this. Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding a 30-member debate on a news item dated 27 March 2018, from more than a year ago. I therefore find the debate a little mustard after the meal. AkzoNobel's chemical branch was sold to Carlyle some time ago, so the relevance of this debate for, for example, employees and shareholders is somewhat lacking. After all, the company has just moved on. For example, it concluded a collective agreement with the unions at the end of 2018. My colleague Van der Lee van GroenLinks said the same thing. This collective agreement has also dealt with the difficult issue of pensions. That was a long time when the branch was sitting with AkzoNobel, a hot iron. They were also prepared to look for a solution to this problem. I think that's a good thing. This debate is about the sale of a business unit of an independent company. The VVD sees this sale as a matter in which the government and politics should not interfere. This is not a vital sector, nor is it a question of state security. The VVD is in favour of entrepreneurship, an open and strong economy with a good location and investment climate. And the VVD is in favour of free trade and protectionism, while respecting reciprocity. That has already done our country a great deal of good, and it has created a lot of jobs for all those hard-working people in our country. As far as we are concerned, this includes a market master, who, for example, looks at whether there is a level playing field and fair competition. As far as we are concerned, we also need to defend ourselves effectively in relation to infrastructure that is critical of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u40	There is an interruption by Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u41	I understand the balance between free trade and the ideology behind it. I do not share that ideology, but I understand her; let me put it this way. But if you look at this business, you can see what actually happened, namely that a Dutch company, mostly based in the Netherlands, lost about 5.5 billion to foreign shareholders. That money can't be wagered anymore. That's the dividend paid out. That's gone from our sector. My question to the VVD is therefore the following. If the ideology of free trade clashes with national Dutch interest, what weighs most?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u42	I think I have already indicated that we also think it is important that there is a good and strict market master who looks at a number of things. We also want to protect the vital infrastructure that is important for state security. I think that's important. On the other hand, we think that we should look at the investment and location climate, to allow these companies to flourish well and to give these Dutch companies room for manoeuvre here. We need to make that investment and location climate attractive for companies, so that they like to sit here, so that they stay here and so that they create jobs here. I think that's the VVD's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u43	I come fresh from the Committee on Agriculture, Nature and Fisheries. There we call these kinds of answers an attempt to save the cabbage and the goat. And that rarely goes well. I think that as a government, at some point, you have to choose what you do. And I think we need to think about how we can better protect these types of companies from flash capital that tries to make short-term profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u44	I have indicated that we are choosing precisely for those companies, precisely for the employees in those companies, because of course a company is not an end in itself. We really care about those jobs. I really wish that in some cases the SP would choose more for business to take care of those jobs, and that the SP would not cry afterward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u45	Yeah, that's what I was afraid of. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u46	Well, a very small point. It was said: mustard after meal. If Mrs De Vries does not want mustard after the meal, then she should have just supported a majority debate at the time. Then we could have talked quickly about this case. Now it is indeed a year later. That doesn't mean we can't learn anything from this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u47	I think we could have talked about this more quickly, but this could have been done, for example, in general consultations or in budgetary treatment. In that sense, I maintain that this debate is already somewhat mustard after the meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mrs De Vries is talking about a good market leader. That's the Authority for Consumer & Market. It looks very much at fair rules of the game between companies and at the interests of consumers. However, I would like to know from Mrs De Vries how she looks at activist shareholders. They come in, buy a few shares and then make a lot of resurrection. At that time, the rate rose and then they left again with the price gain in their pockets, often leaving the company behind with debts and other misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u49	We have already had a debate on how to protect companies. I always find it a little weird that we pretend we didn't already have opportunities for that in the Netherlands. We've got a lot of options for that. We have a Corporate Governance Code with measures that allow you to set up a 180-day reflection period. You have the opportunity, for example, to go to the Enterprise Room. Having said that, there are already opportunities for companies to protect themselves, including in their stock structures. In addition, there is now an opportunity for legislation to take place. I think it is good that we still have a good debate on exactly how this should be addressed, in order to protect companies from corporate takeovers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u50	I hope that Mrs De Vries agrees with me that once a company has been listed, it is virtually impossible for the board to set up specific protection structures. That is why, as a CDA, we are in favour of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u51	I think Mrs Van den Berg should also be honest in saying that many listed companies already have such a protective structure. They've already built that in. I have also mentioned a number of other possibilities, such as the 180-day reflection period, which is now available and which, according to the government agreement, goes to 250 days. But there's also a possibility to go to the Enterprise Room. It also balances all interests, not only the interests of shareholders, but also the interests of employees and the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u52	Thank you. There is also an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u53	The temptation is very great to talk about the location climate and the Netherlands as a tax haven, but I am not going to do that. I do have one other question. There are a number of elements that make Dutch listed companies sometimes attractive takeover candidates. That has to do partly with low interest rates and things like that, but they also have a lot of money in the bank. This is because the Netherlands has a huge balance of payments surplus. This year, that has even increased to 83 billion. 11% of our economy that we earn from abroad every year translates into large savings surpluses in companies. That makes companies interesting to take over, especially if they do too little with that capital in their bank. Does the VVD recognize that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u54	It is important that companies have a sound business strategy. In the end, that's the best protection structure. Then you must indeed consider what you do with your wealth, how you invest it and how you deal with it. But first of all, it is up to the company itself to choose a very good path.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u55	It may be taking things a little too far for today, but you can discuss to what extent one should encourage that things are done with equity and to what extent with borrowed money. The way we set up our tax regime is still too much incentive to do things with borrowed money rather than with your own capital. That is also a source of imbalance. The WRR also points out this in its recent report on Money and Debt. But that can also translate into making companies unnecessarily vulnerable to hostile takeovers. So I hope that the VVD with GroenLinks will at least work towards a better balance between making equity investments and investing with borrowed money. The latter is stimulated a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u56	What can I say? It's a lot of points. No, I am not going to discuss tax haven or tax haven, because the Netherlands is not a tax haven. There has, of course, already been a whole discussion about private equity. Measures have been taken at European level to ensure that there is not too much power to be extracted from businesses. On the other hand, we have already taken a number of measures with regard to the tax regime to make equity more attractive and debt less attractive. A number of steps have therefore already been taken. I am not of the category that says: all private equity is wrong. I think it is an important form of venture capital, which we also need in our country when it comes, for example, to family businesses that want to move forward. As black and white as it's always put down, I don't see it. You have to deal with excesses and excesses, but for the rest you have to take advantage of the possibilities that private equity offers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u58	I had a small finishing passage. At least this is not about vital infrastructure. This concerns the sale of a chemical branch of a paint and coating company. A nice company, which creates jobs in the Netherlands. We must nurture and give space to such companies and not suffocate them in excess of government intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u59	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he can respond immediately to the questions asked, so I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u60	Mr. Chairman. Akzo's chemical industry has been sold, but it has not had a direct impact on employment. The pension scheme has also remained unchanged, there is no intention to change working conditions and the pay level is guaranteed for two years. There is a social plan, a collective agreement, a clear strategy and all kinds of sustainable ambitions. By this I mean to say: there would be takeovers that might fit Mr Futselaar's words better, but I think he is using very big words here. This is a very orderly, responsible change of ownership. Yes, there's a certain amount of money coming from one company, but that goes in the other. He himself says: that money disappears abroad. Yeah, it's also from abroad. There's another share holding company. There's not much wrong with that. It goes through life as two separate companies, but both companies have an immaculate blazon where it comes from everything to sustainability ambitions. Then the whole idea of reselling with profit suggests that this company would only look at the short term. That is the suggestion of Mr Futselaar, whom I oppose. A private equity company may achieve profit or loss in a limited number of years, but in some cases the horizon is short. This is not so bad, as I am assured by this party. But you can only make short-term gains on your participation if you guarantee long-term profitability. Because every next buyer also works with a system of discounted cash flow and will also look at what is worth in the long term, to offer a certain amount of money for it in the short term. So the fact that someone has a short investment horizon does not mean that it would be at the expense of the long-term perspective of this company. In fact, the only way to earn something from it in the short term is by making it clear to another owner in the long term that the company is more fit for the future. I have seen that this company has a clear strategy and I have also understood that this is definitely the intention. So I have to say, I think these words are very big. This will benefit employment. He also referred to the word 'employment' and spoke of a'sight of participation', which I consider to be inadequate in terms of participation. The or has dealt with this, has been able to assess it in an orderly manner, and has also advised on this. I do not think it is entirely up to us to hand out a red card to the people who have performed that role in an honourable way and who, after having thought about it, have also advised positively on it. I think Mr Futselaar has said a great deal, but his key question is: do shareholders not have too much power, and should they not go to the employee? Let me go further, because that is, I think, the essence of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u61	I give the floor to Mr Futselaar for his interruption. Let us agree that, in this debate, we are assuming two total interruptions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u62	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, these are going to be lengthy interruptions. For example, the minister says that the company is being taken over, but it is also being invested in. Then I'll say yes, after 6.5 billion in debt has been placed on Nouryon's balance sheet. It's wonderful that such a company says "every year we're going to invest 300 million in that company," but under the line, if you just look at what Dutch companies have brought in or given away with this transaction, there's just a very clear loss there. What's Carlyle up to? Their average duration of a company is about five years, according to other cases. I can imagine them thinking: we're gonna keep it in the air for a while, we're gonna invest a little bit and then we're gonna give it to another venture capitalist, who's gonna chop the machete to see if it can be broken up, if different parts can be sold, if working conditions can still be lowered, or if people can be fired, or if reorganisations can be followed. In short, the standard recipe. So I understand that the Minister accuses me of big words, but if we are in that situation in two or three years' time, will he say: have I used very little words here for quite a worrying situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u63	Let me start with the fact that not only equity but also debt has been used in financing. That's perfectly normal. Companies exist not only to use own funds but also debt. There's nothing weird about that. Breaking up also doesn't have to be bad at all. In fact, this was a break-up. Akzo's management itself also considered that it could not pay sufficient attention to this particular company. It is the new management, which I also had at my table, which also says that it is now going to focus unilaterally on this sector. Breaking up doesn't have to be bad in any way. It is not at all the case that this eliminates business activities. In some cases, if there is no synergy between different columns, they may even be better off if they are housed somewhere with another mother, or continue on an independent basis. That's not necessarily bad. A reorganisation may also be necessary. But if you never look at the costs, you're gonna go down, too. So all these things aren't necessarily bad. Of course, it is conceivable that something bad will happen to this company or to another company. But then again, we have enough supporting elements in our governance model, in our code. We have anchored in the Civil Code all kinds of things of the Rhineland model. Then we'll all be there. Generally that works very nicely, but I don't rule out the possibility that some future owners of any company can do very stupid things, but that doesn't mean that the idea of a takeover or a split is bad. I think those words are too big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u64	That there are owners of companies, including in the Netherlands, who can do stupid things, I believe. The banking world has shown us a lot in that area. But my frustration isn't that stupid decisions have been made. My frustration is that the pressure of a large group of foreign shareholders is indeed what we would call 'flash capital', or'short-term thinking capital', or whatever terms you want to choose, has led to this series of decisions. If this kind of process can easily enter into force at such a large company in the Netherlands, which can actually force it into a corner, should we not build more walls in the interests of employment in order to protect such a company from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u65	Yeah, but I don't know if protecting... Pressure isn't always bad either. Let me confess that in an honor-honorable life I have also been advisors to all kinds of private equity firms. Sometimes there's snoring. The Netherlands has also for a while been comprised of a large proportion of snoring companies. They can also be shaken up. They're starting a new life. The margin is rising, employment is rising, they are developing greater international ambitions. We generally think that's very good. The Netherlands has grown big in this. Sometimes pressure helps, sometimes it doesn't help. I do not have general rules for this, but I do not have the general rule that activist shareholders or private equity companies in general would have a bad effect. In a previous cabinet, there has been a whole study of the influence of private equity firms. This was done on the initiative of Mr Nijboer. This study showed that not everything is going well, but that it can generally have a very beneficial effect and that it generally has a positive impact on investment, on margins and ultimately on employment. So we have to cherish that. We must always be vigilant for things that can go wrong. The government cannot always do something about that. Anyway, that's why we're a little Rhineland. We're all back to that in other ways. I will certainly not say that everything is going well, because it is not going well in any country, but I would not accept the general terms with which Mr Futselaar serves this type of transaction. Well, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u66	The words "activist shareholders" and "private equity" are a bit mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u67	It's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u68	As far as the CDA is concerned, these are really two different things. Private equity - Mr De Vries, I believe that this can be very helpful in the start-up of family businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u70	I don't call active shareholders a "sprinkle" for nothing. I would like to hear another reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u71	Well, you can, but it doesn't have to be. It's not like activism is bad. Regardless of how fast you find the capital, there must be a reflection period, so that each of the stakeholders in that Rhineland model can consider the future and make a good judgment of the whole factual complex and the situation. We really think so; the cabinet really thinks so and so does the CDA. It shouldn't happen in a curse and a sigh. For this, companies are too complex and the interests are too versatile, so this has to be done in a nuanced way. We want time to think about it. We want the Rhineland model to work. But that doesn't mean that every activism is always bad. Sometimes activism is also needed to bring energy in, but in a nuanced way. I think we'll join each other there. Mr. Chairman. Mr Futselaar's key question with him was whether shareholders should have less influence and employers more. That is not what this cabinet has chosen for in general. The role of the shareholder in the Netherlands is well embedded in the Rhineland model. There are all kinds of checks-and-balances around it. That is the way in which we make a balance between one and the other. We also believe that shareholders should have room to manoeuvre. It must be attractive for them to invest here. Shareholdership leads to investment, investment leads to activities and activities lead to employment again or in some cases to more sustainability or whatever. In the end, you're gonna need shareholders for that. We have to make sure that this country - and I shall come back to Mr Graus' questions later - remains attractive to shareholders as well. It has to be for employees, too. But that's what we do in the Rhineland model. Then it is not the case that one of the stakeholders has to win, but they all have to be able to play their part. So should shareholders. Mr Moorlag wonders whether there is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u72	Before you continue, I see that Mr Futselaar is using his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u73	Indeed, the government and the SP disagree on the role of employees versus shareholders. We can discuss this for a long time, but we will not agree on that. But that's not the only question before us. It is also a question of whether you should somehow protect Dutch companies that may be in a sensitive position to do so from activist shareholders at a time when they could have large-scale negative consequences. Do you not have to do more as a government to be able to intervene or give others more opportunities to intervene, even if it is institutional investors and so on? Shouldn't you be doing more of that? That is also a question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u74	I just talked about how to fix that. That could be two, but one of them is through the reflection period. It's not like you're closing a road for a generic type of shareholder reporting to the gate, but you do make sure that everyone can think about it in a proper way and that the Rhineland model can also work. That's what we'll do with the reflection period. The other way is not secret; that is what the coalition agreement says: we are also going to work on the vital sectors, and that there may need to be opportunities for protection there. This is the case, for example, with telecoms. We have all recorded this in the coalition agreement. This spring, I hope in May, the cabinet will present an analysis of the risks for these different sectors. Leading in this is the Ministry of Justice and Security. It concerns the assessment of the risks, i.e. the nature and extent of the risks, and the question of whether the instruments provide adequate guarantees. In some sectors, therefore, the answer could be no. In that case, we have to do something. In advance, the telecoms sector has already seen the need for more. The Secretary of State for EZK sent a bill to the Chamber for this. A number of motions have also been tabled, including by Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Graus. That is what is happening, and we have more to expect in May. It may be that more is needed in some sectors, but in a tailor-made way, based on specific risks. I am not going to go into that at the moment, because the Minister for Justice and Security has to complete his analysis of this matter first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u75	Mr Futselaar, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u76	I am almost certain that an AkzoNobel would not be included in that list of vital sectors, because no matter how much respect I have for paints and coatings, I do not think that the Minister for Justice and Security says: this is necessary for Dutch security. This while you can insist that it is very important for the Dutch economy and employment. That kind of interest is not going to be covered by this law. Then you can say "we have a cooling-off law," but after 250 days, a group of activist shareholders can still look at their watch and their calendar and say: now we can still make our move. That's not gonna solve the problem, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u77	But if you are really interested in employment, then I will come back to Mr Graus, because he has asked a lot of questions about it, even with -- if you are interested in employment, then you cherish what has created jobs in the Netherlands for years, for centuries. And that's the open attitude. This means that foreign companies like to invest here, in existing business activities, in new business activities and in all kinds of expansions. We owe this to our big multinationals. We have enormous employment here, and indeed that huge surplus in the balance of payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u78	How many shares was it KLM again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u79	How many shares of KLM? Well, I don't keep track of that. I wouldn't invest in that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u80	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u81	This is also an answer to Mr Moorlag's question. He asked if the public interests were sufficiently protected. He even mentioned Asian companies. They don't necessarily have to be Asian. Far East, okay. I have just given the answer to this question. That's the vital sector analysis. We could say that it does not apply in all cases, and we have that period of reflection of 250 days. I think I answered his other question automatically. I think that the Rhineland model is also generally capable of resisting flash capitalism, as he calls it, which I think is quite a big word. Mr Van der Lee, too, I find a single big word, which I might not have expected from him. He saddles AkzoNobel's employees with fried pears. I think he says that there are weaknesses in our system of occupational pension funds due to the fact that companies can be taken over. Of course, the sale of a company should not affect pension reservations. It's separated from each other. That should not therefore be a weakness. If you have to chop up a company pension fund, you can make one weakness, but I don't know if Mr Van der Lee would think that would be a weakness. I do not know whether this is seen by everyone in the negotiations with the social partners as a weakness, but my personal view would be that the lack of personal jars there is a weakness. But I leave this discussion entirely to Mr Koolmees, who is very sensible about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u82	This already calls for an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u83	Well, "baked pears"... What I was referring to is, of course, that the workers, who have not seen indexation for many years, had expected from their perspective that the acquisition would also look at the situation with regard to pensions, all the more so because, as it turns out, this has been arranged for a company that had taken over AkzoNobel and where there was a pension problem. Now that this also seems to be regulated for the employees of the chemical industry, which is now in other hands, this is at least acidic for those workers. Surely the Minister can acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u84	I don't know why a company's change of ownership should affect the size of the pension fund. Would you do that in the opposite way, so that if the sales results fail, you get a hold of the pension fund? You wouldn't want that, would you? The beauty of the system is that these are separate reservations, that this is set aside for employees and that you do not pollute it with interference around a possible takeover of the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u85	In the negative, I fully agree with the Minister: you absolutely should not want that, and it is good that it is separate. But you can also reason that by working hard for many years and also by accepting that their wages are barely developing and that pensions are not indexed, these workers have worked on the long-term value creation in such a company and, if that company is sold in part, they also see part of it. I don't find that wish so strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u86	But isn't it strange to use the moment of a change of ownership for that? Then you would say: every time someone buys a business item, the total is falling in value because it is being seized as a moment for collapse in the pension fund. Isn't that supposed to be a wonderful economy? I think the nice thing is that we separated that and no one should touch those jars. Mrs Van den Berg asks me about the conditions of employment at Nouryon. She says they are guaranteed for two years and she asks what happens next. I don't know, because I'm not part of corporate governance. We have legal frameworks for this, but I am not a party to it and I should not make a ruling on it either. It also asks to what extent this company remains embedded in the regional ecosystem. I can't entirely assess the future plans either, but I've spoken to the new management. I have been given detailed information on how the focus is on sustainability and how investments are being made in a green economy, in hydrogen in Delfzijl, in renewable energy generation, even with wind farms, and in sustainable raw materials, also in collaboration with all kinds of other industrial partners. It is a prominent party in all kinds of chemical clusters: Rotterdam, Delfzijl, Hengelo, Deventer. The R&D in the Netherlands; I think... How that goes, I can't see from this place, but I see that the company isn't starting to look for anchors in the regional ecosystem anymore. It also asks about the legal reflection period and the reduction in the percentage of shares in which shareholders have to report. One is in the hands of my colleague Dekker; that is about 250 days. The Internet consultation just closed. The next step, looking at and processing the responses, is for my colleague. I can't predict how long he'll need for that. I might be able to check, but I don't know now. I don't know if he knows that either, because he probably just got his hands on the reactions. The law on the reduction of the percentage of shares lies in the policy area of Mr Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance. I will also pass on that question and I will make sure that you are informed about it through the President. Finally, Mrs Van den Berg asks if I am prepared to have the WRR look at the vital companies and sectors. I do not want the work of the Minister of Justice and Security to be crossed by the WRR. The cabinet presents an analysis of the risks by sector. I'd like to wait and see. I think the debate on this should be held, perhaps also with Mrs van den Berg. And then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u87	The Minister has just indicated that the list of vital sectors will be available in May. We are very pleased about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u88	That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u89	That's what it looks like. I've been talking about grey areas. We do not want to put anything in the way of the list that is now being drawn up. We are concerned that you are also asking: what are the risks in the adjacent sectors, which can also be critical? So it goes a step further than the list that comes in May. The second part of the recommendation contained two parts of the request for an opinion concerning activist shareholders. We have now taken two measures. We agreed to that in the coalition agreement. The CDA knows this is the deal for this cabinet period. But we would like to have an investigation now into what else needs to be done to protect against activist shareholders. The request therefore concerned two parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u90	When it comes to speed, I don't know if a question to the WRR is the best route. I do not want to enter into my colleague's investigation either. I do not know exactly how much activist shareholders are included in this. It comes more from the sectors than from the type of shareholder. It is therefore conceivable that my colleague will take it with him. I would ask Mrs van den Berg to be patient until the cabinet comes forward with an effort. On the basis of the discussion on this issue, with my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security, she will then be able to assess whether more is needed and whether she may still see gaps in that analysis. But let's wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u91	Mrs. Van den Berg, is that enough? Yeah? There is also an interruption by Mr Graus. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u92	When a commitment is made, the most important thing is always: when? When can we expect it? This is important, possibly also in connection with the budget debate in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u93	I understand that it is the intention of the Minister of Justice and Security to come with it in May. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I believe that Mr Graus is quite right to say that the French are more chauvinistic. I can add that their economic growth is also lower and their collective burdens are higher. But the fact that they're more chauvinistic is also true. He's actually worried about selling out Dutch companies. He announces that he wants to keep the shareholdership of Dutch companies with Dutch shareholders. He is concerned about the consequences of takeovers by foreign shareholders. Our power would go down. Our culture must pass and our traditions would disappear. I would like to put an image to that effect for Mr Graus. Our culture and our success have been since the seventeenth century: openness, trade and transit. We are the place for multinationals. As far as multinationals are concerned, we are far above our fair share in relation to the size of our country. Those multinationals operate all over the world, but choose this place because there is this openness here, because that transit is here, because capital and goods can get in and out of here. We are even a node for internet traffic. We are an open transit country in all kinds of areas. We have a lot to thank for that. We must be proud not only of the companies, in whatever hands they are, but also of our locational climate, proud of our role in the world, which we owe to them, and proud of our employment. Was this ever this high? We also owe this to the balance of payments surplus. We owe that to our enormous prosperity. Look at the world ranking. If you take the oil countries off and take the very small countries off, which often have a different position to do things for attracting wealth, then the Netherlands is in the top two or three of the world's purchasing power per inhabitant. We owe that to this open attitude. If we were only to use Dutch shareholders, we would probably not have that position. I'd like to put that pride against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u94	I was talking about losing culture and tradition, apart from these companies. I mentioned that in one sentence, but I'm talking about the fact that we're losing Black Pete and stuff. In addition, we are also squandering our companies. I didn't link that culture and traditions to the sale of businesses. What I want to say is that we have been very large as a small country for centuries, when everything was in Dutch hands. We got so big when everything was in Dutch hands. I predict it's gonna get worse with foreigners getting involved. Our payment security and security of supply are also at risk. Dependence on abroad is never good. That is very important, Madam President. We've only just begun to squander those companies. It's something from the past few decades. The consequences remain to be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u95	If the waste can be expressed in how many foreign investments are made here and how many Dutch investments are made abroad, then there is no question of squandering. The balance is favourable in our direction. It is not the case that the Netherlands is systematically engaged in losing assets abroad. That is not the case. We've listed about 25 companies to the AEX. Well, how many percent of those shares will be in Dutch hands? My guess is less than 10%. The Netherlands has always been a country that, in a very good, very smart, very productive and very wealthier way, has used capital from other countries to increase our prosperity and employment here. We shouldn't demonize that, we should embrace that. That's what made us big. Mr. Chairman. I can't really add anything else. In doing so, I think I have done the right thing about Mrs De Vries' concerns and input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u96	Thank you. Then let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. At least that is the case with Mr Futselaar. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If a minister underpins his policy or lack of it by going back to the seventeenth century, then the historian in me is a little triggered. I will not dwell on this in detail, but let us note that the first Dutch multinational, the VOC, had a state monopoly and that you can take the observation that there was free trade with a large grain of salt. I have two motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch companies are regularly threatened with takeovers, that their effects cannot be described as merely positive and that the government has intervened acutely with Air France-KLM;]] [[considers that it is necessary to understand which companies are threatened by their survival, including by takeover;]] [[calls on the government to provide an overview of large Dutch companies threatened by activist shareholders in their independent survival, for example by the risk of hostile takeover,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the sale of AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals gave shareholders 5.5 billion in dividend payments;]] [[considers that employees have created the value of this business and not the shareholders;]] [[calls on the government to develop tools for workers to take decision-making power over such large strategic decisions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-111]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u98	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but a few comments. I maintain the term "flitskapitalism." I believe that there are indeed takeover parties that are purely profit-driven and have little regard for the interests of employees, society and continuity. I agree with the concerns expressed by Mrs Van den Berg. I must also say that it has turned out quite well here. I also expressed this in my first term. The minister says it goes well all the time. That may be so, but that doesn't mean that at most 1 in 100 Dutch people are inclined to steal a bicycle and we still equip all bicycles with a bicycle lock. In this respect, therefore, my appeal to the Minister is to remain ambitious in order to regulate adequately those parties which do not have the right motives. Finally, I would like to ask a question. Why is investing in Air France-KLM unwise? Why does the Minister distance himself from government policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u99	Thank you. Let me see if Mr Van der Lee needs a second term. That's the case. Mr Van der Lee is from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. I already had an interrupting debate on this with Mrs De Vries, and I think I want to ask the Minister: the European Parliament calls us a tax haven. This is not about the word, but we have a tradition of organising a race to the bottom. At least that's what we've done in the past. In addition, we really have a large surplus on our balance of payments. That's what I mentioned. This year it has grown again to 11%. We have an agreement in Europe that 6% plus is actually the maximum. This translates into a savings surplus in companies. They're not doing enough with that. They invest too little, also in the Netherlands. Can the Minister once again shed his light on that? How serious does he actually think that we are so well above that border that the Union says would be reasonable? Because that also causes imbalances in the euro area. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u101	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u102	Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that we would like to have an opinion from the Scientific Council for Government Policy. I have taken out the section on vital sectors in response to the Minister's comment. The motion is: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that activist shareholdership is increasingly forcing companies to sell parts in order to protect themselves;]] [[Whereas this is an undesirable development;]] [[Whereas society benefits from companies that combine the interests of shareholders and employees, are socially rooted and focussed on long-term value creation;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Government Scientific Council for Policy to deliver an opinion on activist shareholdership and how its negative effects could be mitigated;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this opinion is available by the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u103	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use all its (Ministerial) powers to prevent future takeovers of companies of national interest (socially and financially and economically),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent investigation into the decades-long squandering of primordial Hollands, including the social, financial and economic consequences in the short and long term, as well as to prevent loss of influence, control and affordability, security of supply of products and services, as well as maintenance of (foreign) independence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-114]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u104	Madam President. Ensuring employment, payment security, security of life and independence from abroad has nothing to do with demonising. That's what I wanted to say to the Minister. I really don't mean to. I'm just standing here with heart in front of the e.g. The Netherlands. If the government had listened to me about buying Air France-KLM shares a few years ago, it could have saved EUR 413 million in public money, taxpayers' money. So I'm not often wrong, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u105	Thank you. Then I'll look at Mrs. De Vries. It does not need a second term. Then I'll look at the minister. Is he ready to answer yet? He doesn't have all the motions yet. So we wait for a single moment. A number of questions have been asked which are a little outside the scope of tonight's debate, so I would ask him to limit it to the debate tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u106	The Minister is ready to give an appreciation to the motions and to answer a single question. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u107	Mr. Chairman. I'll do the questions first. I have received a call from Mr Moorlag to remain active. I will. He asked me a question about the investments in KLM. I can't. I'm not allowed to invest in my position personally. Or was it Mr. Van der Lee? I'm not allowed to. But I think it is very sensible, not to invest in a particular company, but to protect our hub function. That's at stake here. That has a meaning other than an investment of mine personally. Mr Van der Lee actually asked a very broad economic question, which I will probably also have to discuss with the Minister of Finance. It's an interesting question. Let me see if I can find an answer to that at another time and by another way. This also depends on the euro area. In any case, that seems to me to be something to involve the Minister of Finance. That's a promise I make. The motion in part No. 111, by Mr Futselaar, I do not recommend it for two reasons. Firstly, there is absolutely no provision for which companies are threatened or will be threatened by activist shareholders. That could be any enterprise. Furthermore, in the vital and critical sectors, our approach, the approach of the cabinet, is aimed at the sector, and not at the company. On the basis of sectors, we make a risk analysis. That's the way we do it. I must therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 911 is my recommendation, too. The current legal framework and the code provide sufficient scope to safeguard employees' interests. Then the motion to part No. 113. In line with my answer to Mrs van den Berg's questions, I would like to suggest that she hold this motion until Mr van den Berg's analysis has been carried out. If not, I'll have to discourage the motion. I can imagine that it makes sense to have a discussion on the basis of this motion as soon as my colleague's analysis is there. But then I'd like to hear from her what she's doing and whether she feels like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u108	I would like to look at Mrs Van den Berg, if she wishes to continue her motion. Or does she want to think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u109	I'd like to sleep on that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u110	Okay. Well, look at that. Then I wish her a good night's sleep. This is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u111	There are two other motions from Mr Graus. The motions on pieces No. 114 and 115.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u112	Oh, wait, I don't have it yet. In the meantime, they're worried. "To prevent future takeovers of companies of national interest." That's not government policy. We are looking at the vital sectors, as I explained to Mr Futselaar. This motion, in part No. 114, I must therefore advise against. Nor can I agree with an investigation into the decades-long squandering of primordial-Hollandish holdings. I need this motion, in part no. 115, dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u113	You have a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u114	I just mentioned KLM. I'm also an aviation spokesman. I've been telling you for years that we need to buy KLM shares. The government has always said that it is not necessary, that it is nonsense, panic-mongering and you name it all. I just got right: the government had to buy KLM shares. I was right at the De Wit Committee. Two years before the nationalisation of the banks, I said that the banks must be nationalized immediately. Then I was laughed at and called a communist. Now I really want an investigation. I'm not counting on the Minister, with his distress, but I really hope that the Chamber... I am really counting on the Members of Parliament, because believe me, if there is ever a parliamentary survey on the squandering of our businesses, a lot of people will have a wet buttock. 'Cause you gotta cover your ass as a room, too. You must have done everything you could to prevent anything. I just want to convey that message to the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u115	Thank you. I didn't hear a question from the minister. Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-26.u116	Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the MPs and the viewers at home.
