ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	First of all, I would like to welcome everyone, including the people in the public gallery, the people in the President's Lodge and, of course, the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court. The next item is the presentation of the accounts for the year 2018. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is an honor and a pleasure to present and briefly explain to you the annual financial report of 2018. This is my second day of responsibility as Minister of Finance, but the first full year of this cabinet. A regular year, but in many ways a good year, with strong growth and a solid budget. On Prince's Day, I told you on the basis of two polar travellers about the importance of proper preparation. I will not complete that comparison today, but we have certainly had a good year of our journey. We see a year in which the strong growth of previous years continued. In the meantime, we have had five years of economic growth in a row. Over the past year, this has been largely due to household expenditure. They could also spend more, because many people had a job and found it. Every day, every day, more than 530 Dutch were able to find a job. This meant 195.000 additional jobs in 2018. The Netherlands now has the lowest unemployment rate since 2001. To which I would like to add that, of course, we have been greatly helped by the economic situation. Mr President, you know my view that politicians should be reluctant to claim economic growth as their own success. Growth in the first, second and third place is mainly due to working and entrepreneurial Netherlands and the fact that we, as a very open economy, are always heavily involved in the waves of the global economy. However, all these new jobs and spending are very good news. First of all, for a lot of Dutch families where someone doesn't have a job at first, but now someone does have a job and goes to work in the morning. Of course, secondary but not insignificant, also for public finances and thus for society as a whole. Mr. Chairman. We spent a lot more than in 2017: about 13 billion euros. Among other things, education, care, safety and many other subjects that we consider important. What have we done with that? Well, the answer to that question is a decent laundry list. For the sake of time, I will limit myself to six points. We increased the salaries of teachers in primary education, we concluded government agreements with medical-specialist care, but also with general practitioners, the district care and the ggz to keep the care affordable, we continued to improve accessibility by fighting traffic jams and creating new roads, cycle paths and so-called fast bicycle routes, we strengthened the enforcement of social security rules and labour laws as of 2018 and last year we invested in recruiting inspectors and detectives for the Inspection SZW, we wanted to improve the debt approach and the impact of poverty on children and to reduce the impact of poverty on children by making additional money available for the professionalisation of debt relief and of course we took 60 tax measures for citizens and companies to make work pay more. Mr. Chairman. As I said, it is not an exhaustive list. But it does indicate the wide variety of cases in which the cabinet wanted to invest. What also contributed to the surplus, of course, is that we have not been able to achieve our plans in all areas. This has been particularly the case in the case of defence and infrastructure. The vast majority of this unspent money, as I say immediately, remains available for expenditure in later years. Moreover, the surplus is a much-needed buffer. The Central Economic Plan of March this year also stated that the high growth rate of the Dutch economy is very likely to be over. You could say we've had the peak of the business cycle. This year, the CPB provides for the same surplus as was agreed in the government agreement, which is significantly lower than in 2018. That is precisely why we continue to focus on sound public finances. This is prudent and sensible in the light of the many risks that exist internationally and the always sensitive Dutch economy and public finances. Moreover, public debt is significantly higher than before the crisis and we want to be able to continue to provide collective services with each other, in good times but also in bad times, whether it is about education, care or security. Mr. Chairman. I have basically told your Chamber about the state of public finances. According to the Audit Service, the financial management provided a stable picture. However, the findings of the ADR also indicate that there is room for improvement. ICT and information security, for example, are still calling for our attention. They are simply inadequate. These are persistent problems that cost a lot of time and capacity. Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to leave a detailed assessment of the quality of our financial management to the President of the General Court. It is, of course, very good that the Court of Auditors is so closely watching, because we are talking about a great deal of money, which is not ours, but the citizen's. I would like to highlight that it is a great good thing that an independent body with a great deal of expertise is putting its fingers on the sore spots. The more you go abroad, the clearer it becomes how well and securely we have arranged this kind of business in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. When I talk about checks-and-balances, I cannot and do not want to go beyond the permanent Committee on Finance. I very much appreciate her attention to the programme Understanding quality. The aim of the programme is to gain more insight into the results of policies, with the aim of asking: do we spend citizens' money in a sensible way? This is important, because it is citizens' money and citizens must always be able to rely on us to spend it in a good, sensible, effective and efficient way. I know it's not exactly a sexy subject or something you can score with in the media, but it's a very important subject. I would therefore also like to pay particular tribute to Mr Snels and Mr Sneler as rapporteurs for this operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. A compliment on this side is, of course, always dangerous, so I will limit it to that. So much for the brief summary. Of course, this includes a comprehensive description and a very thorough numerical basis. I would very much like to offer you this on behalf of the cabinet: the Financial Report of the Empire 2018. I very much look forward to the debate with your Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you very much. There's a nice orange bow tie on it. I shall now give the floor to the President of the General Court, whom I would also like to welcome. I call Mr Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	Madam President. Now for the second act of the first act. Government is forward-looking, it's adagium. The government just took the stage. Now, logically, we have to look back at the area in which the General Court acts. Thank you for your invitation to look at the year 2018. I do that with the theme of continuity of service, and this time not with the help of a novel but I remind a movie. Mr. Chairman. In a formal sense, I only have to share two things with you. One. The answer to the question of whether ministers spent and collected public money according to the rules in 2018: legality. Two. The answer to the question of whether ministries were organized: business management. The good news is that we can make a positive statement. That allows the States-General to discharge. But for the first time in time, we are approaching the critical border. It was about 0.07% or we'd ended up in a difficult situation. Because almost 1% of the commitments made by the cabinet must be regarded as unlawful. If that 1% limit is exceeded, then our approving statement is under discussion. I'll add a warning. On the basis of the new Compatibility Act, next year, we will assess all policy changes that have not been notified to your Chamber in time as unlawful, because Parliament will not be allowed to report on time. Imagine that this demand had already been made this year. Mr. Chairman. The government doesn't just take on obligations. We're also looking at income and spending. Here too, the percentage that has been lawfully collected and spent is falling. The benefits of the Empire to municipalities and provinces stand out. The legal principles are not properly respected. The so-called regional deals are the current but not the only example of this. There's a Financial Relationship Act, and there's only one way to explain it. That law prescribes how the Empire provides money to provinces and municipalities and when and in what way conditions are attached to it. And yet it is not dealt with. Mr. Chairman. In business we see more problems than in previous years. We're noticing 47 flaws this year. That figure is less important in itself than the problems identified themselves. The fact that we're seeing a lot of flaws at the IRS doesn't surprise anyone here. A quick fix is not possible there. The persistence of IT and procurement issues is striking. This remains a stumbling block in many departments, as the Minister has just referred to it. The security of digital information is inadequate. Please note, we are still talking about implementing rules from 2012 in 2019! Last time, I said at this place, at this time, information security is chiefsache. That is why I would like to mention all the ministers who have made sufficient progress: the Minister of VWS, the Minister of SZW and the Minister of EZK. Then I've had them all. But this isn't the last scene. You know that we allow an independent party to look at our own accounts separately, because it is uncomfortable that we are the butcher who approves one's own meat. I have to admit that the General Court is getting a slap on the wrist. We, too, make mistakes. Shared sorrow is half sorrow, I say to the Minister of Finance. But also for us: you only solve problems by recognizing them in equestrian terms. And that's what I'm doing here. Mr. Chairman. You know that the ambition of the General Court goes beyond just the communication that we are approving. We want to contribute to improvement through our accountability research. We want citizens to have value for money and so we are doing more and more research. This year we have looked with particular attention at the intensifications. We asked the question: what is the extra money? What do we see in accountability? We conclude that accountability is often not good enough to follow how that extra money is used. Also, results are not yet or hardly visible. How is that possible? How can you explain that? Now I come to that movie, Memento, to answer that question. The main character in that movie has a memory disease. He doesn't remember anything, and he doesn't build up any new memories. He only knows one thing: his wife was murdered. He writes what he goes through on paper every day. He's taking polaroid photos. And if information is crucial, he tattooed it on his body. He wants to know what happened. He wants to understand and then he wants to take care of it. We follow him in his quest, but logic is lacking in the successive scenes. Slowly we discover that every scene, every day, is presented to us in reverse order. We go back in time, not forward in time. The confusion of the protagonist also makes us master. How can you follow now and how can you understand what happened? What's that puzzle like? It is only when we see the film for a second time that we realize that the main character, despite all those photos, all those polaroids, all those notes, all those tattoos, is making the wrong conclusion. He's making a terrible mistake. Then why this movie? I told you, rule is vision. The Court of Auditors is looking back. Memento teaches us that superficial perception can be deceptive. What you see at first sight may lead to different conclusions in a second consideration. Every departmental annual report, every accountability survey can be seen as such a loose scene. You have to follow the trail back and put it in the right order to get the overall overview, also to a period you weren't with, and perhaps also to a previous cabinet period. The first image that emerges after our accountability research from those isolated facts can be confusing. Then it's loose scenes. Let me give you some examples. The UWV has extra money to provide benefits for people who are partially fit for work and to guide them towards work. Thanks to the money, the UWV makes more calls and there is more personal contact. But on 1 October 2018, only half of the people who applied for the benefit in 2017 had a first interview. The Minister of Defence has more money for modernising the armed forces and improving operational readiness. More plans have been made than before. But at the end of the year more money is being passed on than there was at the beginning. Education has a high workload. There's extra money available to deal with that. But before it is known whether it all works, whether the money has led to the desired result, the Minister decides to pay out the second instalment. There's more money for new infrastructure. But we can't get a hundred-year-old lock to work anymore. Ships therefore have to sail through other routes. Rijkswaterstaat now needs more money for the overdue and delayed maintenance than is available at all to regular maintenance budget per year. There's also more money to bet extra cops and detectives. But at the end of the year, there are fewer agents available on the streets and in the neighborhoods than at the beginning of the year. Mr. Chairman. Like I said, a confusing picture. Hence Memento. The main character lacks a coherent perspective of present, past and future. There's nothing out of the ordinary. There's no looking ahead and there's no looking back. Which brings me to this moment and this room. You will be presented today with the results of one moment: the Minister's annual reports and the Court's investigation. It's a snapshot, but they're not on their own. Unlike the main character in Memento you can go back in time, to a moment before this cabinet period, or before you were MP. You can follow the trail back and see that what doesn't seem logical at first sight is still explainable. For the performance of the UWV is a direct result of targets imposed years ago. Services had to be cheaper and more efficient. Digitisation would replace personal contact and make less personal conversations necessary. Their effects are still working. Defence has been cut more and more over a long period of time. Those cuts have mainly been knocked down by support services. Those services took care of staff, procurement, storage and maintenance of equipment and buildings. It is precisely these services that are needed now. Between ordering a ship and putting it into service, there are years. That is why people spend less money than is available. The police have not only been ordered to hire more district agents and detectives, but they have been struggling with large outflux of personnel since 2017. The police, like many other public services, are running into a tight labour market. New people will only be fully employable after a few years of training. That explains why fewer people are available. Reductions on maintenance of roads, locks and bridges have been going on for years. Lack of money translated into delay of maintenance. The policy was that problems had to harden. This approach leads to intervention after something has actually broken down, but you will get the bill presented once. Turns out it's higher. Shippers and drivers must be rerouted by other routes. We have not been surprised by the fact that teachers' workload has been reduced thanks to the extra money. It is the same conclusion as when extra money was provided for the quality of teachers or appropriate education was introduced. If you follow the trail back, you will see that clear agreements between you, the minister and education are always lacking. Our conclusion today is therefore twofold: extra money does not immediately lead to visible results and there is still overdue maintenance in places where no money is available. That can be explained at the moment. Our question is whether this will change in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. For the first time in a long time, the Chamber is not talking about the question of savings, but about the possibility of making additional funds available. We would point out that it is precisely then that vigilance is needed. What looks like something at first sight may turn out to be different on the second face. Connect the view to the look-back. It can be of wisdom to spend money not now, but later. It may be wise to maintain the existing before demanding something new. It may be useful to look back halfway through the movie to see if the choices were the right one. Making priorities is what you do with a long-term perspective. The continuity of public services is a valuable asset, which is difficult to relate to rapid decisions. Our advice: follow the trail back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	First, I'll receive the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister and the President of the General Court for the documents on the accountability of the national budget 2018. It is the twentieth time that the House of Representatives receives the accountability documents from all ministers on the third Wednesday in May, plus the reports of the Court of Auditors on this matter. Not only will you be considering today's accountability in the coming period. Next Monday the so-called V100 will take place for the third time. This year's V100 with 100 MBO students. Thanks to the work and the commitment of Joost Sneller and Renske Leijten we have a very beautiful day next Monday. Then 100 citizens, i.e. 100 MBO students, will be actively involved in this report by both the General Court and the ministers' accountability. They can submit their questions so that the financial spokesmen can also involve citizens' questions in the debate on this issue. I would particularly like to thank Joost Sneller and Renske Leijten for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	Today, also for the second time, the Monitor Brede Prosperity has been presented to the Chamber, which has been prepared under the coordination of the CBS. I would therefore also like to thank the Director-General of the CBS for his presence here in the Chamber. I expect that the Monitor Brede Welvaart, together with the accountability documents of the Cabinet and the reports of the General Court, will provide a good basis for the Accountability debate. The debate on responsibility will take place next Tuesday, 21 May. The individual annual reports will be discussed in the committees in the following weeks. Final decision-making on the annual reports and final laws, as well as the discharge for the financial management carried out by ministers in 2018, is foreseen for the last meeting week before the next summer recess. Finally, I would like to point out that today the annual report 2018 scheme Big Projects has also been presented to the Chamber by the Permanent Committee for Finance. I trust that the reports presented today will help to assess the policy pursued in 2018. Good luck with that. I'm suspending the meeting for now.
