ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the own-initiative proposal 34534, Proposal for a law of Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Geleijne providing a framework for the development of policies aimed at irreversible and gradual reduction of Dutch greenhouse gas emissions in order to limit global warming and climate change, i.e. the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u2	I will give the floor to the initiators in a moment. May I ask from you in advance how many initiators are going to answer and who are going to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u3	Mr Jetten and I will speak. As soon as I start, I will also indicate how we have divided the tasks. And, of course, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u4	Yeah, but I was actually talking about the initiators. I've got the minister on my retina anyway. I will tell you that, regardless of the state of affairs, we will suspend for dinner break at about seven o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u5	That sounds like music to the ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u6	Then I'd be delighted to give you the floor, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u7	Thank you. Mr President, through you, I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber for their contribution to the first term. It's special to be standing here. It is an adventure, this climate law, which we started about three years ago. That was with someone I'd like to call Diederik Samsom. He was then leader of the Labour Party and was in the coalition. I was a member of the opposition. Yet we both had the same feeling: if we really want to achieve something with climate in the Netherlands, we have to try to overcome the differences and do something that is not commonplace. Two group chairmen who submit an initiative law, one of which is also in the coalition and one in the opposition. When we started doing this, in the first place together, we were right to think that it should become broad and that as many parties as possible should join. I am therefore very pleased that all those other parties are participating. In the end, it's eight. The last one, 50PLUS, joined the debate itself. I am pleased that these parties have been so brave to put away the differences and to see how one can work together on such an important subject as climate change. The process of coming to this law was not always easy. But this is the way to move forward in the Netherlands when it comes to tackling climate change. As I have just said, I will say something about the division. It's actually very simple. In a moment, I will go into the general intentions of this law and the question why we wanted to do so again. I will also address the objectives. Questions have also been asked about finance. Mr Jetten will address governance and the questions that have been asked about the participation of citizens. I believe that there is also a particular interest in the role of Parliament. Mr Jetten will also comment on this. When we started this law about three years ago, we talked about the tragedy of the horizon, as the explanatory statement also states. We quote the governor of the Bank of England. Climate change and its approach are so great that we can always move it further away. The approach will not then be taken. We wanted to write a law that did not focus all the content of climate change and its approach, but the way we should go together to tackle climate change; a framework law. We call it the rules of the game: the rules of the game for no matter how we disagree, we can work together to arrive at a shared approach. That is why I should like to start with the question of why it is such a bald law. Well, that's why. We are not standing here to hide the fact that the climate debate in the Netherlands is far from ready. It's still being fed. We are not here to say that we agree on how to achieve the objectives of this law and the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. We are standing here to say that we share this objective and that we want to get there. We make rules with each other, we set them up, so we know how to work together. And that's exciting, because we don't know exactly where it's gonna end. But I think this is the best guarantee to make sure we actually get out. I think the proposers, like you, speak to a lot of people in the country. People are worried. Concern about what climate change means for their lives or for the lives of their children and grandchildren, but also about whether they can afford it. What are they doing in The Hague? Who pays the bill? The heat pump has already been mentioned a few times. Do I really have to do one of those things that makes so much noise on my roof and have to pay for it myself? There are concerns about what's going to happen. These concerns are an important part of uncertainty. What is The Hague going to do at all? What this law should ultimately offer to all those Dutch people, citizens and businesses is certainty. That is why we have said that every five years there should be a climate plan with a look-through for the next ten years, so that it is clear which path we are going on. It was asked, I believe, by the Labour Party Group, which means the opinion of the Council of State which says that Parliament must also be bound by it. That's a lot to ask. It requires us to have the courage to hold on to the course we set together, which may not be ambitious enough for some and which is far too ambitious for others, and to do so for a number of years. Not because we like it so much, but because the only way you can make that big change and take the people with you in the Netherlands is if they know where they are going. That is what I believe this law provides the handle for and what binds us here behind this table. In the contribution of your Chamber I heard 50PLUS very graphically say that the law is very detailed on some points. The SGP said: there is very little in this law, especially when it comes to finance. I'll get to that in a minute. The Party for Animals said it wasn't ambitious enough. And if I understand the PVV correctly, it's hell and damnation, because it's far too ambitious. All other parties are under this law. We have tried to do this in a middle way to see how we can get as many people together in this law as possible in order to achieve a shared approach to climate change. The most bizarre law ever, as it has been said. I am glad that things are not always different here than in the House of Representatives; it feels like coming home with these texts. The comparison was made with the purchase of the Joint Strike Fighter. That took 16 years. I would like to point out that we have been talking about this since 1989, since Ed Nijpels' first environmental policy plan, and that we are only now discussing a climate law. If it succeeds and if your Chamber agrees to this law, I promise you that we will continue to achieve the objectives for the next 30 years. In that perspective, the purchase of the Joint Strike Fighter was a real piece of cake. The PVV Group also said that nuclear energy is excluded. If I may speak in a personal capacity, I might have wanted to. But the law doesn't. The law is technically neutral. To be honest, I am pleased because we do not know how the technology will develop in the coming years. That's why we didn't choose one technique or another. It's all possible. We will see what choices will be made in the coming years. That's how it was about biomass. That is one of the things that we have adapted in the letter of amendment to the bill. We are in line with the Renewable Energy Directive, because we see the problems with biomass. I felt a huge connection to the PVV group when it came to logging. I am very curious to see which Natura 2000 area you live in. The large logging, in the Netherlands but also around the world, worries me too. I couldn't help but think of the cuts in state forestry in 2010 in the first Rutte cabinet, which was tolerated by... well, fill in yourself. There were cuts in state forestry and it was necessary to sell larger plots of forest. That's worrying. I believe that we should be very critical of the biomass we use, and that is why we need to comply with the Renewable Energy Directive, as it prevents constant changes about what is and is not appropriate. The honourable Member of D66 has asked a number of questions concerning governance in particular. As I said, Mr Jetten goes into that. I would like to comment on one thing that has been requested by several Members of your Chamber. This is about the climate authority: where did it go? With pain in the heart we finally said goodbye to that, but with full sense. We thought we needed an authority and needed to establish it. But authority builds you up and such authority needs authority. In the end, we thought it was very sensible to join the Council of State. If there is a College of State that has authority and is used to advising on complicated legislative pathways, it is the Council of State. We could have chosen to build a whole new institute and try to ensure that it is as independent as possible, but why make something new if there is actually a very well-functioning institution? You will soon see in several choices we have made in the law that we are trying to join the existing practice. For example, we had in the original bill that we wanted to work with emission budgets, as requested by the Party for Animals. In theory, I still think that this might be a much better approach and that it could work much more efficiently, but in the discussions we had with the Minister on this law, he indicated that this is not European practice and that objectives are being worked on there. And yes, then we can push ahead and say: we necessarily want to be the only country to work with these budgets. Or we join a system that is already there, so we don't have to be too busy with the system but can look at the content much more. In this sense, we have adopted a very practical approach, an approach which we welcome and an approach which I believe can work. The Christian Union Group spoke in a slightly different way about the tragedy of the horizon and how we are trying to break it. The group asked the proposers to reflect on "it was so beautifully put "the fact that it seems as if there is sometimes a small cultural war going on. How keen is the debate on climate? I am not so afraid of the sharpness of the debate. A sharp debate is part of a democracy. But at the end of the day, we need to get together, as we have come together under this climate law. That is the great challenge for the coming years. How do we ensure that the differences in Parliament and society do not become so great that joint solutions are impossible? This climate law must guide this. Eventually, the authors also say: we do not all agree on how we are going to stop climate change, but the rules of the game that we are going to come up with are clear. The debate will not be less intense, but I hope that we will have a path through which we can come to solutions, so that it does not end with shouting or too intense a debate where nothing comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u8	I welcome Mr Klaver's answers. I indicated in my contribution that we can still find consensus at the level of objectives. You are all the example of that. But when it comes to measures, of course, it is going to be difficult. You say that this is part of the political debate, and I fully agree with you. Do you also see possibilities to connect those two camps of skeptics and believers? In my tradition, that means something else, but let me take over that word. Do you see any possibility of connecting these two camps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u9	Maybe that starts by not talking about these camps or about believers or unbelievers, because that puts people right away. I was recently visiting Tata Steel to speak with the employees there. They were very concerned about what ideas there are about the advent of a CO tax. I think it is important to keep talking and taking these concerns seriously. I understand very well that employees of such a large company are worried about what's coming towards them. You shouldn't put them away like people or types who don't want to move forward. That is not the case at all. There is also concern about climate change, but there is also justified concern about their job. It's important to start talking all the time. It is the task of politicians, of all of us, to continue to talk, not only in policy but also about what society will look like and what this means. You spoke of the great changes that are needed. That's about more than a bill more or less. It's about how our lives will change. Having that debate with each other is the great challenge we have. It will often go wrong and become firm, but I hope that we will have more success and that we will listen to each other without putting each other away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u10	I have one more question about that. I also asked a question about it in my contribution. I think this is the right time to put it again. It sounds very nice that we stay in conversation and that we hope to come out together, but the question I would like to ask is: isn't that something more necessary? Shouldn't you be making agreements about how we do it? That can be a kind of advisory committee, in which the Parliament or the initiators of the First and Second Chamber together say: we had very nice intentions but did we actually make any of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u11	Yeah, I'd come back to that later, but it doesn't matter, so I'm gonna get into it now. Yes, but as parliaments, we need to reflect on how we want to do that. You yourself suggested working with a rapporteur. I know that in the Lower House there has been some thought about a thematic committee in this area, so that you bring the various issues together. Should we think about whether the First and Second Chambers should join together? We, as proposers, do not have an answer to that at the moment, but I do think it is a question that we, as States-General, should ask ourselves. How we organise our own work is important for the way in which we enter into this process. How much control we have, what we're about to have, and how involved we are in what's going on here, we haven't made any choices. In my opinion, this really is something of the sort, but I can imagine that you have other ideas about it, and I am very open to it, first of all, to see what happens when the first climate plan comes and how we deal with it. How is this plenary debate going? How is that dealt with in committee? After such a first year, we can learn what it was like, how we did it as a parliament, and then we can put ourselves as a task to see if we might have to change something in the way we work. But if there are any better suggestions, I am highly recommended, either in this debate or outside. The group of the Christian Union also made a distinction that I really want to consider. She said: we have the climate law, we have the climate agreement and we have the climate plan. Sometimes I think everything gets thrown into one big pile. That will depend on us as proposers, because we do not know how to make that distinction well enough or perhaps not to make it clear enough. But I do think it is important for the debate that we are focusing on that. With Mr Atsma of the CDA, I even heard in his speech that it was sometimes about the climate agreement when he actually reacted to the Climate Law. What I see and understand very well in the House of Representatives, and actually here too, is that we, as a parliament, are wondering through the whole process with these climate tables: what have we been doing lately; are we still involved; what is going on here? This climate law should give us more tools, which Mr Jetten will be working on in the near future, to be involved in what is happening in tackling climate change. The Climate Act is really different from the Climate Agreement or the Climate Plan. It's an empty law in the sense that he indicates the rules of the game that we're going to work by. I really think this is an important difference. I would like to stress that in the House of Representatives I have the feeling, and here too, that the Chambers are not always well involved in this climate policy, but that it is separate from this law. This law is precisely intended to anchor that involvement much better. The SGP had a contribution as you might expect: state law, pure. It was about affordability, feasibility, reliability and legality. They asked why you would want to set goals in a law, because that's not what laws are meant for, is it? I don't think that's entirely true. We also define the objectives for air quality in the law, or the driving times for ambulances. I think that's good, too. Capturing targets is important to us because we want to give certainty to people. We set out these goals in order to make clear what we are going to work on in the coming years and what that means for the commitment of the politics and the choices that we have to make. I tried to follow you well. We do not know what the financial consequences of the global approach to climate change will be, but your colleague from the PvdA said: that account is there anyway. The task we have with each other is to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement and to do so in the most cost-effective way possible, so that citizens do not pay the main price for it. That is a complicated task, but climate change or its approach is not a choice. The SGP has also agreed to ratify the Paris Agreement, which means that we will have to meet those objectives. Those objectives and the path by which we define, because the proposers are convinced that by establishing them, by providing certainty, by working with climate plans, we are most likely to be able to do so in a cost-effective way. Your Chamber pointed out that it is the most difficult until 2030. I really think that it will be a difficult task until 2030, a relatively short time, and that it will be easier afterwards, but we need to record it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u12	It is a good argument, but the comparison of the driving times of the ambulance with this law for 2030 and 2050, I have some doubts about that. At the beginning of his speech, Mr Klaver indicated that there is a question for the citizens and that is: who pays the bill? Actually, that's what he's referring to. I understand that he is asking that question, but most citizens have an earlier question, namely: what is the bill? If we don't even start with an idea, then you're actually scaring your citizens away from your ideas or your plans, because they say: beautiful all of them, what you think of in The Hague, but who's going to pay for it? At least the citizen. They also say very often that business is going to pay with it, but business pays with money that the citizen paid first to the companies. In other words, we're all gonna pay for it. My question to this group of initiators is: what will this account be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u13	The Minister says, "Let me answer that, but I'm stubborn." If we want to make a complete picture of what the costs are until 2050, which the Minister may be able to do very well, I would say that this does not give you an honest picture. We have to be careful to display that. I think it is important to make it clear to people that we have years before this transition, that we will not leave them alone and that we will not be chasing them for enormous costs when they cannot bear those costs. But to say right now that we're presenting a complete overview, we can't do that. I think: if you promise something, you have to keep it; at least I'll teach it to my children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u14	That's what I'd keep doing, the last thing, so you have to do what you promise. You haven't heard my party shout about any amount of money. There are parties in this country that mention amounts, and that is about many billions. Thousands of billions, that's what they're talking about, but I don't know. It's not about that. But citizens do hear that. And then you can say that citizens are smart enough to know that this is probably not true, but if you do not even start a direction, but set very high objectives in the law, then I think that we will not get those for whom we are doing it, the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u15	Okay, if you say, this law is important for the support base, and this law should give the answer to what the costs will be. I think we all have the responsibility, when we talk about the costs, to say: what do we make? In the debate as it is now, we hear a lot about what all kinds of costs are, but not about what savings, investments and expenditure are. That debate may be difficult to implement, but that is the debate we need to have and how we need to talk about it, including in your Chamber and also when we are outside, in the country, in order to give as clear a picture as possible. But we can't make a promise about how much it costs or not, because we don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u16	I can very well imagine that Mr Klaver genuinely thinks that we are all going to do this very cost-effectively, but I can very cost-effectively, very easily build a very large house, with everything that I can't afford anyway. As a country, I can say, "You know what, we're gonna put someone on the moon." That is a fantastic goal, but we in the Netherlands cannot afford it. The objectives you have set yourself are such that there are absurdly high amounts of money involved. That's the problem. You can say 'we're going to do it very cost-effectively' I think it's immediate but it doesn't remain to be paid. That's still the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u17	I like that you're gonna quote it to the moon. John F. Kennedy said, "We chose to go to the moon. Not because it's easy, but it's hard." I think that's the same with climate change. This is a hugely difficult task, perhaps even harder than putting someone on the moon. And yes, there are high costs involved. Mr Ester talked about not just discussing each other in technological terms. There is also a more fundamental difference of opinion here. The PVV does not believe that people have an impact on climate change and that we do not need to take such measures. There is an important difference of opinion. That is why there is a difference of opinion as to whether or not we should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u18	Yeah, there's a difference of opinion there, too. We seriously doubt the extent of human influence. That's one. Two. We seriously doubt the feasibility of the plans. Is there even an effect measurable in 50 years? We don't think so. But assuming we have to reduce the CO content in the air, the question still arises as to what the environment is doing, what we are doing and what it is going to cost us. We are so deeply concerned about this that we are saying no to these bizarre plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u19	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u20	Let me put a question to Mr Klaver, because the words he says about cost efficiency are very clear to us. This applies not only to households, but also to companies. You have indicated that the initiators are actually gathering as much hand in hand as possible in order, above all, to radiate this stability. Rightly so, I say. But how do you look at, also in the light of cost-efficiency and uncertainty among citizens and businesses, the initiative legislative proposal that was presented not so long ago to introduce the CO levy? I believe that the Labour Party presented this in January. How is that in itself consistent with this kind of objective which we support, which you are now putting forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u21	I presented that proposal for a CO tax myself in January. The Labour Party has also presented a plan. If I stress that it is important to come together and find the compromise, I am not saying that the political debate should disappear. There is a political debate on this CO tax, on which we disagree, but that is not what this law is about. As attractive as I find it to talk to you about this in this Chamber, this law is not about that. I cannot speak on behalf of the co-subsidiaries about how such a CO-tax would look like, nor would I be able to comment on the substance of it. I already have itchy hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u22	This, of course, affects one of the points you have just said: we must unite, unite in policy, and the people and businesses must know where they stand. If then one party comes up with its own proposals after the other on the left, of course, that is political debate, can you understand that this leads to some confusion, regardless of how cost-effective and cost-effective such a tax is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u23	I understand. In fact, I told you I've been to Tata's. There was a huge unrest there. There is still unrest among the people who work there. They're proud of their company and they're thinking, "Oh, my gosh, what's going on here and what does this mean for my job?" I talked to a young guy over there who said my grandfather worked here and my dad worked here. What are you doing, man? I see the unrest too. We will not remove all the unrest, but the hope I express is that because the climate law is there, there will be a first climate plan and then a next plan every five years. We therefore know where to land these climate plans and proposals. Instead of remaining in discussions that only stay over the market, there is a need for choices to be made, and that will happen in the near future. But again, that falls outside the scope of this law. Maybe we'll meet again in this Chamber, but not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u24	One final point, Madam President. Do you not think that it is precisely by coming up with comparative initiatives separately, which only increases uncertainty among businesses, households and citizens? And that people will ask: where are we now? Of course, you do place everything in the light of the dot on the horizon provided by the Climate Act. In that sense, you can't separate that from each other. You confirm that this will indeed increase this uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u25	Your point is clear. You indicate that when there are all kinds of proposals, from the left or right, this gives rise to uncertainty. That's what I'm saying: yes, that's true. The most important thing I think is that we will be able to remove this uncertainty as soon as possible and that, ultimately, there will be a political consensus on what we should do. They also asked what would happen if the targets were met. Is the law going to go away? We had to check it out. No, the law won't expire. We can change the law at a time like this. Let's hope this happens as soon as possible. As far as I'm concerned, earlier than 2050, but I also say that we have until 2050. A question was asked about local authorities and companies that were not committed to this. Mr Jetten will deal with this later, because that is also about participation. It was very attractive to discuss and to discuss the NATO standard, but we agreed that we do not want to deal with the NATO standard in any way. We would, however, like to make the suggestion that if your colleagues in the House of Representatives would be able to tell them that they feel the need to make a legislative proposal for this, they would, of course, be free to do so. In the suspension we had to prepare for the answer, we did not reach a consensus on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u26	If the group of the SGP were to table such a bill on the other side, the costs would at least be in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u27	Yes, that is also very clear, 2% GDP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u28	Exactly. Well, at least we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u29	I see the bill has already come one step closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u30	Well, who knows? At least it'll be much clearer. We'll know what we're talking about. In the meantime, you have given the answer to the question of what would happen if the targets were achieved in time. But what if they don't get picked up? Should any of these parties submit a revision or an amendment of the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u31	No. If the targets are not met, the Minister will explain. And then he has a lot of explaining to do, because we have politically agreed that these goals need to be met. If you'll allow me, I'll go straight to the question of whether it's not legally enforceable. Some people thought that was a very good idea, others said that it should be. The authors have said together: this is really a law that must bind politics. It shouldn't be enforced by a judge. It's a political direction. If the targets are not met, the Minister will have to answer for them and additional policies will have to be put in place to achieve them. Or the Minister will have to explain very well why it is not possible at the time and when the targets will be met in time. That's what happens if the targets aren't met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u32	If it's not legally enforceable, I notice two things. You then foresee that a repetition of what happened to Urgenda is not possible. Is that a correct conclusion? Or can any organization or every citizen indeed bring the government to justice because the goals have not been met and the law is broken? It is an important question whether or not that happens at the time. If that is not legally enforceable, what does the law actually do? Then it's more of a plan or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u33	First of all, the State has already been brought to justice without this law. You could've done that. The Urgenda case was conducted without this law, with recourse to the international conventions. We say that this is about the exact wording of the authors. It is the intention of the proposers that this law binds politics and that it is not legally enforceable in the courts. We also indicate that in the end we cannot give a guarantee. It was expressly not the intention of the applicants to create a legal enforceability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u34	Finally. I wonder if all the parties here are aware that it is simply a law that is not legally enforceable at all, that it is a political intention that hopefully will be fulfilled, and that it is a pity if it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u35	I can tell that the support of the SGP is getting closer, but perhaps that is too hopeful. What we considered important with this law is that we go on a path and go along with it in order to achieve the goals. It's a road map. That's what we're doing with this law. That's all that matters. In doing so, the proposers, I myself, are convinced that we are actually going to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u36	I asked for this this morning, too. The penalty will then be political. In fact, Mr Klaver says that. My question was: but why was this chosen in relation to the objectives? Why a law which, according to the authors, legally does not recognise sanctions in any way, only politically? What are the considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u37	What were the considerations? I have a very good story about that. It was a political compromise to keep it as broad as possible. Some of the proposers at the table felt that this is not what should happen, we do not want the judge to speak on this, we do not want to increase the chances of us being brought to justice again. If I may speak on behalf of Mr Samsom and also on my own behalf: when we started it, that was not the intention. That's why we didn't mind writing it down in that sense. What we considered important and important is the commitment of all these parties, who say: we agree with the objectives of the Paris climate agreement, we lay it down legally, we talk about the route along which we are going to work to achieve it together. However, there is nothing certain in life, certainly not in a political life, but this gives us the confidence that we are really going to achieve the goals and that climate action is coming. Mr Nagel of 50PLUS asked what we do when the streets are open, what we do about the noise pollution of water pumps and what we do when the citizens are hit too hard. On the one hand, we must be very honest: the change we are facing is enormous. The way we live will certainly change. On the other hand, we must do it in such a way that people can experience it. We must be able to limit the nuisance that this causes. I myself think that predictability is the most important thing, so that people know where they stand. The government has to direct that too, so that you know when the streets are open and you are not caught by it. When we make such a big change, when it comes to how we heat our homes, and where our energy comes from, it will have great implications. People will notice this, too. I really think that we as politicians should be honest about this and not pretend that this is going to go quietly and that nothing else is going to happen. I think it's getting better and better, but people will feel the change and notice it. The question of governance will be raised later. I have just touched on the issue of the parliamentary advisory committee. The other question about the knowledge infrastructure and participation will come in a moment. The quote that the circumstance doesn't require a normal path, I like it. We're doing something very new. This isn't business as usual. That's exactly what it is. The bill is there anyway, because climate change is a fact, whether we tackle it or not. Left or right changes our society, changes our world. We will have to deal with this together. There is also an account, but in addition to costs there are indeed revenues. I trust the Minister will take that up later. Together, we need to put more emphasis on what the revenues can be. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance spoke about the timing of the climate note. The honest answer is that we would have preferred it to be different. We would have preferred it closer on Prince's Day, but we have also taken a rather practical approach in this regard. However, the figures needed to prepare the climate note and the climate and energy exploration are not yet available. The fourth Thursday of October is actually the first time, and that is why we chose to do so. It's still close enough. The advantage is, I think, that the climate now has its own day. It is a climate day and it is intended to give it as central a role as possible, so that we can inform people in the Netherlands about what is happening, what the plans are and what happened last year. It is a moment of accountability, but also a moment to present our plans further. In fact, we wanted something different, but for practical reasons we chose October. If we look at it now, we think it's actually a good time. The overall balance of everything comes with the budget. We will see this year after year, both in the Tax Plan and in all departmental budgets. It will be with a lot of budgets, but with Infrastructure and Environment and Agriculture and Nature you will certainly see it again. What can we learn from other countries and what can other countries learn from our climate law? Not so many countries are doing that, some eight or so. I know that Belgium is currently working on a climate law following the Dutch initiative. We have been inspired mainly by the United Kingdom. The picture exists that after the Brexit decision no one really knew what to do, but it was the Minister of Energy who then walked towards Downingstreet. According to the Climate Act, we must continue to address this issue. If you then see how much CO reduction has been achieved in the United Kingdom over the past year, even though it is quite a mess in that country, I dare to take the liberty of saying that, then that is impressive. The Climate Act has played a very important role in this. We have also been asked what other countries can learn from the Netherlands. Let us first ensure that this law gets a majority, that the first climate plan comes and that we gain experience with it. I think it is important to keep in touch with the other countries, to exchange experiences. That's very important anyway, but certainly by a law like this. What I hear from my international contacts is that people find it very special that this is a parliamentary initiative, that this is a parliament law that has been tabled and supported by so many different parties. We are used to something of fragmentation in the Netherlands. A country like Germany doesn't have as many parties as we do, but they don't know what happens to them. The same applies to Spain where a coalition government must suddenly be formed. The fact that we are able to tackle an important issue such as climate change in the Netherlands and that it comes from the parliament itself is something that the proposers are proud of. I think this is something that could inspire countries. For the rest, we're really gonna have to make this law come true. Only then can we look at what other countries can learn from us. Important measures to reduce emissions have been requested. It is very attractive to go into this in detail, but I do not, because I cannot speak on behalf of all the authors when it comes to what measures we should choose. This law regulates the path and the rules of the game about how we discuss this with each other, as far as I am concerned, and how we are going to make choices. For now, I can't go into it. I come to the fraction of the SP. I enjoyed the footnotes, the contributions and the economic treatises. Very interesting. I also think it is right to talk about the historic debt that has been built up. We do not often see this in the debate, at least not in the House of Representatives. We are only looking at the emissions that the Netherlands has in relation to other large countries, but we have been ejecting for a long time because our industrialisation has started much earlier. It was indicated that trade flows are shifting and that this will have a major impact on the world. I think we should talk about that more often. In fact, I think that the climate debate that we are having with each other in the House of Representatives, but also here in the House of Lords, is a perfect time to hold all this kind of discourse and to discuss it with each other. Then we can consider what this means for the future. That is not a concrete policy proposal and it does not directly change a law, but it is important to have it on the retina, because it is the world in which we live. It could be our ideas. So much appreciation for that piece of the SP contribution. The group indicated that it would have liked to see higher objectives. Behind this table are parties who would have liked to see it. Others might have wanted different goals, but this is what we found each other on. I'm proud of that. That's really important. The Party for Animals asked why it was not used on that 55%. That's a bet, but we're not there yet. Members of the CDA and of D66 are working from the Parliament to form a leading group in Europe for those 55%. The cabinet's working on it. I see that the Minister is already sending messages to his colleagues in Europe to say: you really need to hurry up with that 55%, because I am being asked about it. You can see we're working on that on all kinds of fronts. I can't wait for it to happen and it could land in the Climate Act. We're not there yet. Is it necessary? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u38	Before anything new arrives in the Climate Act, we'll be a few more years. Unfortunately, time is scarce to deal with the climate crisis we are currently in. Mr Klaver talks about 55%. I am pleased that this is being worked on. I was aware that the government has advocated this in Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u39	It's parliament itself, isn't it? I really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u40	And also the parliament. 55% in 2030. That sounds very nice, but why didn't you include it in this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u41	You mentioned Hansje Brinker who did not ask permission to stick his finger in the dike. But Hansje Brinker didn't need a majority. That's what we're dealing with here. We were looking for a majority. In order to reach that majority, we could agree that we came to 49%. In Paris it is agreed, although below the 2 degrees, that it is the intention to go to that 1.5. With 49%, we're not going to that 1.5. I'm not gonna play hide-and-seek for that. That's what the others see. But it has been said that we are going to try to fight it for each other in a European context. I think that's a win. I think that is very good, and it really should be done. That is why I believe that all of us, with all the contacts we have with other parties in other European countries, should try as much as possible to achieve this. It is not only a responsibility of the government, but also of Parliament to ensure that we go to that 55%. The answer to the question as to why it is not in place at the moment is that there was no majority for it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u42	Then Mr Klaver should have better convinced his colleagues of the degree of urgency, because of the dangerous tipping point. I also referred to this in my contribution. If we reach that 2 ̊C, we'll get to a dangerous tipping point. If we get there, there's a good chance that the climate crisis will become out of control. Then the costs will not be seen. I believe, however, that the initiators have assumed far too much of the feasibility in the beginning, rather than thinking about what the precise problem is and what it takes to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u43	It is almost starting to feel like a major failure that I have not been able to convince colleagues, but I would really like to record it for my fellow Members. I see a willingness on everyone's part to reach that 55%. It has just been said that we need to agree on this in Europe. I can see how serious this is being done. We are all critical of what the government is doing about it. That's fine. But I see how hard and with how much surrender it is being worked from the parliament. I really think it's possible. In other European countries, you do not see the movement soon enough, but I really think it can get there. You can say it's not in there, but shouldn't we have presented the law? That is almost the question I would like to ask again. If we agree on the rules of the game and agree on the path we are going to take to tackle climate change, and at the same time we are working to raise the targets in Europe, so that they can also be increased in the Netherlands, I really believe that a flywheel is going to work, which is going to achieve the goals. Am I sure? No. Am I sure we're gonna make it if I'd set the target to 70%? No. Eventually, it's human work. Ultimately, it is our job to ensure that we meet these objectives by taking concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u44	But how does Mr Klaver know it's going to get to that flywheel? There's no guarantee in that law. The 2030 target of 49% is only an objective. We have just heard Mr Schalk say that there are no legal consequences whatsoever. That ambition is soft as butter. Surely we have no guarantee that this law will actually organise a flywheel?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u45	No. There's no guarantee. And the question is, what then? I prefer hope. I hope it does. It's harder than usual for me to get back to work. I think I have the most beautiful profession in the world. It's never hard, but I became a father again ten days ago. For the first time in my life, I feel like it's harder. On the other hand, if I am standing here today to talk about the climate law and defend it in your Chamber, then I remember what I'm doing it for. In the end, hope is the twinkling in the eye of my son, who is now about ten years old. Am I sure this is gonna work? No, but I do know that I can explain to him later that, when I was in parliament and always working, I did much more than I like to say that I did everything I could to achieve it. That's why I can look at myself in the mirror. That's all that matters to me. Guarantees? I wish they were there, but I can't give them to you. I would have stayed with the SP. The most important point that the SP group had was governance. It is about the agreement that Parliament should give to the climate plan. Mr Jetten will deal with that in a moment. I'm sure that's gonna be a lively debate. I have already answered the following question, but I will go into it. The group of the VVD asked why it was such a framework law. I would like to emphasise once again that tackling climate change will take at least 30 years. This is a path we're going on that's not easy. The only thing I know for sure is that we can get there if we agree on rules. That's what this law does. That's why the VVD and GroenLinks were able to find each other. When it comes to all kinds of measures, you will see the differences again. But there too, I hope we can find each other again. I think this climate law is working on that. That is why this has become a framework law. I've already gone into checkable policies. From the Party for Animals I have already answered a number of questions. It was about air traffic for a while. They asked why it wasn't there. OSF also mentioned air traffic. Others also said that shipping is not in it. Personally, I regret that this is not part of the Paris Agreement. The Montreal Convention agreed that flying should be as cheap as possible. In the 1950s, after the World War, it was very logical that as many people as possible should be able to travel. Now that's a stand-in-the-way. I hope that we can overcome that internationally. In the House of Representatives, too, we often have debates on how to deal with air traffic, but that is not what the law is about. That is not out of unwillingness, because we do not want to deal with air traffic, but because it is, as it were, really an effect of the Paris Agreement. It's not gonna fall in there. In other areas, we will have to work together to include air traffic and shipping. The fact that it's not in here doesn't say anything about the priority that the proposers want to give to air traffic. But we choose to follow the Paris system and also to restrict ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u46	I would like to point out on this point that this means the 2% or so. 1.5% is achieved effectively less quickly. Because that international transport is quite extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u47	Sure. It's 2°C and 1.5°C, but I understood what you said. It's really gonna be harder if we don't, that's true. That is why I say: that gives us a great commitment to ensure that it is taken into account. It remains a very big task. The Montreal Convention certainly protects aviation properly. The lobby for that is very strong. This means, internationally, that adaptation is very difficult, but also in the Netherlands we will have to look at what this means and what we can do. This cabinet has introduced a flight tax. Again, this is a very relevant subject. I don't want to run away from it, not at all. We have to deal with it, but it's outside the scope of this law. At other times, we'll talk about this. Then I come to the contribution of the CDA group. Their main point was also the question of what is the role of parliament. What is the role of the Chambers in establishing such a climate plan? Mr Jetten will deal with this in a moment. I found the marl caves and the polar bears in the Sahara very interesting. I took it all. I do hope that I have understood correctly that the CDA group also recognises that climate change is really man-made and that all the examples cited that climate change is of all times were not meant to indicate that human influence was limited. I fully assume that this was not the case and that they were not trying to say that. They also asked how many countries already have such a law. I indicated that at least Belgium is working on it. From many more other countries there is real interest: how do you do that and what does that mean? All countries, like the Netherlands, have an obligation to come up with these nationally determined contributions. Such a climate law can help them very much. I think that the Netherlands is the frontrunner in this and that many other countries will follow. Are the objectives of the Climate Act feasible and affordable? We need to make them viable and affordable. Tackling climate change? It is not that we have invented: it is nice to achieve these goals. No, it's different. Science, the IPCC, the United Nations, have done research to see how many degrees the Earth is warming up. From there, they're going to calculate how many degrees we need to stop global warming to make sure we keep our planet. From there we have created goals and said: we are going to achieve them. Now we have the joint task of achieving these goals in such a way that our societies can experience them. That's what we stand for now. This Climate Act outlines the path to getting there. I'm gonna repeat myself. The fraction of the CDA used different terms several times. I refer to the Climate Law, but it was also very much about the climate agreement and what it says. I would like to stress that we really need to separate all of that from each other. It is attractive to discuss all this in one debate, but unfortunately that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u48	Mr Klaver asked me a question. The answer is yes. The influence of man is also beyond doubt for us. That is what I said, by the way. Feasible and affordable, are there any guarantees to be given? That's one. Maybe you can go into that. The other point you are referring to was that the CDA Group discussed the agreement, the law and also the climate plan. Yes, because the coherence between these three is, of course, extremely obvious. Without a chord and without a plan, you can't reach that dot on the horizon. That is a bit the job of this Chamber to watch over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u49	I would say that this should in any case also be the task of the Chamber on the other side. From the two of us together, then. 'Cause it all works out for each other. I didn't want to choose my words too harshly, but why I'm still making a little strict about this divorce is because we're now discussing a bill for the Climate Act. I cannot go into everything that was or was not agreed in the climate agreement, all the more so because the cabinet is still in the process of making this final. What I know, and I find all sorts of things about it, is that there is a draft climate agreement. The cabinet has had all sorts of new things passed on. The cabinet is still discussing this, as is the question of how it should look. At the end of the day, we need to discuss this with each other. I'm afraid we can't do that right now. What we can talk about is the law. Is there a link between climate plan, climate agreement, climate law? Of course. That seems obvious to me. But it is really too early to be able to have the debate on all kinds of things we have heard from the draft climate agreement, such as what it means for the built environment and for electric transport. Or about what we are going to do with the CO tax, which has already been mentioned. We could have a debate on this, but you really should ask the Minister later. That's why you've come to the wrong place with me for the moment. Countries are not equal, that's right. Hydropower in the north is a huge advantage. France has traditionally had a lot of nuclear energy. Those differences are there. The Netherlands is a smaller country and therefore more agile. We have to get rid of gas in the end, but our gas infrastructure offers a lot of opportunities for hydrogen. So we, too, have all kinds of advantages over other countries. That's why I think equations are limping very quickly. We were asked how we will achieve a better guarantee of the House of Representatives. I would like to point out that this is precisely the purpose of the Climate Act in order to secure Parliament's involvement. I believe that this law has succeeded. Then there's one question I actually want to ask back, because I couldn't follow. That was entirely up to me. It was about the provinces. In some agreements it is agreed that they no longer want to spend land on the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u50	That question was for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u51	That question was for the Minister? Great! Then I don't have to ask any more questions about that. Good luck, I'll tell the minister. It's gonna be all right, I see. He knows exactly what question it's about. Then I come to the questions of the OSF Group. I liked it very much as the spokesperson said: the how and the what are not yet fixed, but the where. That's what this law lays down. The aviation is definitely one of them. I have just gone into it and tried to explain why it does not fit into this law now. But we cannot ignore that in the overall approach to climate change. I very much appreciate the fact that the group has indicated that this law is a good start. But now it's time for the climate plan. That must be ambitious, but it must not hit people disproportionately hard. I actually liked that to conclude my contribution, because that is actually the task we are facing in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For me personally, it is the second time in just over six months that I can stand here on this side of your Chamber as the initiator of a bill. I thought that was very special last time, because that was a constitutional change at the time. But it is even more special now, because I am allowed to do it with so many colleagues on the side of the House of Representatives. Mr Klaver and I actually have the same division of roles on behalf of all the initiators as when we defended this bill in the House of Representatives. Mr Klaver spoke about the goals and ambitions of the Law. I am talking about governance and further development. I have to confess, last time I didn't actually have so many questions to answer. We briefly talked about that in the suspension. In the House of Representatives, the debate on this law was almost exclusively about the goals and ambitions, but as initiators, your Chamber has asked us a lot of questions about the role and involvement of Parliament, in fact the role and involvement of both Chambers of the States-General. That is also quite understandable, because that is precisely the discussion that we had with each other in great detail when we were writing this legislative initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I will discuss the climate plan, the climate note and the KEV, the climate and energy exploration, and then the role of the two Chambers of the States-General in establishing the climate plan. Finally, I would like to address a few short questions about possible other necessary legislative changes and the participation of citizens in particular in the further development of climate plan and paper. Mr Klaver has just explained that this law actually has three objectives: the 95% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2050, a 49% target by 2030 and a CO-neutral production of our energy by 2050. Compared to Mr Klaver's first bill and Mr Samsom's, we have agreed a slightly different governance in this bill for monitoring these objectives. This is because, as initiators, we have tried to align ourselves with a number of agreements made at EU level, agreements on how all Member States report to the European Commission on a five-yearly, 10-yearly basis on how they are implementing the Paris Climate Agreement. So we have tried to join this as much as possible in order to ensure that, among other things, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but also other departments concerned, do not set up a completely different cycle for European accountability than for the accountability resulting from this climate law. What does this translation look like for the Netherlands? It actually passes through three important instruments or moments. First of all, this five-year climate plan, together with the climate and energy exploration prepared by the PBL and the annual climate note with the government's response to it. First of all, the climate plan. We have developed this in the initiative proposal in Articles 3 and 4. The climate plan shall be established at least once every five years and shall have a ten-year horizon. It describes how the objectives of the Climate Act should be achieved over the next ten years. The Climate Plan provides an overview of various measures taken, but also of the expected share of renewable energy in those ten years and the intended energy savings during that period. Furthermore, I would like to point out, among other things, to the PVV group, that there is a review of the latest scientific insights and technological developments. So, as Mr Klaver has just said, this legislative proposal does not exclude solutions. It offers the opportunity to include and anticipate new scientific insights and technological developments in the climate plan. The Climate Plan also outlines European and global developments relevant to Dutch policy. Should it be the case that other countries in the European Union suddenly join this European leading group and all go towards 55% by 2030, then the government can go into this in detail in the climate plan and possibly make proposals to adapt the Dutch climate policy accordingly. This can also be done if exactly the opposite is the case, and in fact the whole world lags behind instead of implementing the Paris climate agreement. As a country, you don't want to go too far ahead or too far behind. I believe that this is reassuring for a number of groups that have expressed their concerns about this. Finally, the Climate Action Plan also includes an assessment of the impact on the financial position of households, businesses and governments. Mr Reuten and Mr Nagel, among others, have considered whether the transition is fair. The fact that we have discussed in detail in the climate plan the financial situation of households and businesses, among other things, makes it clear that we consider this to be a fair sharing of costs and burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u54	It is wonderful that Mr Jetten says that all kinds of modern technological developments can be incorporated into this law. Great. But when we talk about nuclear power, for example, or thorium plants, what happens? Nothing at all! Then we're talking about technological developments. We are talking about technological developments that could really help this country. That's why we have the knowledge. We also have the experts for it. Over the last 100 years, there have also been quite a few Nobel Prize winners in physics. We're not doing anything with that! Then what good is it that all this can do, but that we do nothing with one of the essential technological innovations that are possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u55	I think that the various initiators behind this table have different views on the present generation of nuclear power and thorium. In various debates in the House of Representatives, we do notice that everyone says: please let those technical universities, companies and researchers continue to develop thorium technology. If it turns out at some point that it is an affordable energy source that can be safely used, then almost all the groups in the Chamber are open to debate. They are also open to including in the climate plan that the cabinet should consider technological developments. We also force the cabinet to anticipate thorium once it has become a truly affordable alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u56	If the technical universities have to develop these thorium plants on their own, then I know what will happen: nothing at all. They don't have the money, very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u57	I would like to touch on the issue of international comparison. I'm a little worried about what Mr Jetten just said. He indicated: perhaps the Netherlands is too far ahead. The objectives are fixed and the longer you wait, the more problematic it becomes. Mrs Teunissen mentioned the tipping point. Do you not want to take back what you just said, namely that we can adapt to the international situation at that point? It would reassure me if you took those words back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u58	As far as I am concerned, it is certainly not meant as an automatism, so if other countries lag behind in relation to the Netherlands, we will automatically scale down our ambitions. I think we all see that the social and political debate has been strongly polarised in recent months. A lot of people ask us as politics: aren't we going to be crazy Henkie, is the rest of the world participating? Those are legitimate questions and concerns people have, I think. By asking the Cabinet to outline and reflect on international developments in the climate plan, I think we are also addressing a question that lives in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u59	It seems that Mr Jetten does not take the objectives of the legislative proposal seriously!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u60	If I have given that impression to you, that was absolutely not my intention. I will come back to what some of your Members have said very well. We see that the climate debate has been strongly hardened, polarised over the past year. A few of you spoke of losing sight of the climate debate. We all see that. By forming this broad coalition with all these initiators, we are trying to bring back some peace in the debate, but without closing our eyes to questions and concerns in society about the affordability or role other countries play in complying with the Paris agreements. Hence the point in the Climate Act that we also ask the Cabinet to outline the international context. The first climate plan is envisaged for the period 2021-2030. The Council of State will be asked for its opinion. As initiators, we have had a number of contacts with the Council of State to discuss and examine whether it intends to take on this role and whether it has the right resources and the right people to do so in order to fulfil that advisory role properly. He confirmed that. We are very pleased that the Council of State wishes to assume that role. In addition, the climate plan also provides the opportunity to present views. The bill now states that the Minister will adopt the climate plan after consulting both chambers. I will come back to that point in more detail in a moment, because that was one of the most important points that emerged in the first term of your Chamber. Before doing so, I would like to briefly consider the other instruments mentioned in the law to outline the whole context of governance. With this Climate Act, the Cabinet is forced to report to both our Chambers on the progress of achieving the objectives of the Climate Act through an annual climate day on the fourth Thursday of October. Then the KEV, prepared by the Planning Bureau for the Environment, is offered to both Chambers and the Cabinet adds a climate note. In this climate note, the cabinet presents an overall picture of the realisation of all the measures envisaged, their impact, the implementation of the measures per ministry, but also their impact on the departmental budgets and the financial consequences for households, businesses and co-governments again. Mr Ester asked about the costs and revenues of the various measures included in the climate plan. The cabinet is also asked to give a look at the next climate plan. Does such a climate and energy exploration now force you to adjust your policy? Sometimes it's very short-term. We as initiators aim to do this every five years because of the predictability of the policy, to which Mr Atsma also referred. But I think we have all seen at the beginning of this year that sometimes you will have to adjust climate policy less than once every five years. The increase in the energy bill was predicted by some and expected by others much lower, but it caught us all. The noise in society was great, and wide in both Chambers the cabinet was called upon not to wait five years but to intervene much more quickly to at least adjust the tax portion of that energy bill as quickly as possible. With this annual climate note, we are forcing the Cabinet, at a fixed time, to answer to both our Chambers about the effects of the planned and implemented climate policy and, where necessary, to adjust it in good time. Mrs Klip was also clear about this in her contribution. How does this climate law contribute to the settlementability of climate policy and the role that we can play in it as both Chambers? We believe, as initiators, that this will really happen with the annual climate paper, in which the cabinet has to answer. And as Mr Klaver has just said, we would also have liked to have seen that climate note at the same time as the Princess Day papers, so that you can even better weigh it fully with all the other policies. After extensive consultations, however, we have come to the conclusion that it will not be possible for the departments to submit this to our two chambers as early as September at least in the short term. But the Minister has promised us, in my view, in the debate with the House of Representatives, at least to make every effort to make this information available as early as possible. At least that fourth Thursday in October was chosen as a fixed time in the Climate Act. I think it would be good if both Chambers were to ensure that the departmental budgets of, for example, IenW, EZK and LNV, which this is mainly about, were to be dealt with only at the time when the climate note was submitted to the Chamber, so that you could discuss it in its entirety. Then I come to the main point of discussion from the first term. That is the intended role of both chambers of state-general in the adoption of that five-yearly climate plan, as set out in Article 5 of the Climate Change Act. I can mention almost all the speakers in the first place, because almost everyone has thought about it. We, as initiators, understand the broad need in this Chamber for greater involvement not only in the climate plan but also in the climate agreement and indeed in all climate policy. Let me take a trip: almost all initiators are also members of the permanent Chamber Committee for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy in the Lower House. Over the past 18 months we have often had an exchange of views on how we could strengthen our role as a Second Chamber vis-à-vis the Cabinet. The energy agreement, concluded a few years ago, has brought us much to catch up, including in the area of renewable energy production. Widely in the House of Representatives, however, there is the feeling that we were also a bit attacked by that energy agreement. The polder was done with the energy chord and said "here it is," and we could actually all draw at the cross. There was little room for us as a Chamber to ask questions about or to adjust. With regard to the climate agreement, which will hopefully be concluded shortly, the House of Representatives has given a great deal of thought to how we can play a much greater role in this than at the time of the energy agreement. We have therefore taken the initiative to organise technical briefings with the presidents of the climate tables, to organise hearings with parties sitting at those climate tables, but also sometimes with parties who could not participate in those climate tables. In this way, we as the House of Representatives have tried to get a bigger role in that. We have had the same discussion as the Dutch Parliamentary Committee for EZK about the entire Groningen dossier. We have gained more control over this by going to work together more often in Groningen and more often taking the initiative for permanent AO's or permanent hearings. So I understand very well that the Chamber is also now saying when it comes to dealing with this climate law: what kind of grip do we have on this climate agreement, what possibility do we have to change that climate agreement and that five-yearly climate plan? Would it not be wise to add a right of assent or to create the possibility of tabling amendments if we deal with that climate plan? I will go into these two concrete proposals in a moment, but let me start by explaining how we, as initiators, came up with the proposal that has now been incorporated into the Climate Law. In our view, the climate plan outlines the frameworks within which the cabinet will achieve its objectives for the next five to ten years with a number of instruments. That climate plan is partly standing policy, partly new policy and partly planned policy. This will then have to be worked out by the Cabinet in legislative, regulatory, subsidy and administrative agreements with co-governments that also have a role to play in the implementation of the climate agreement and the climate plan. This means that both Chambers will be given an opportunity at a great many times to express their views on the development of this climate plan, on the legislation and regulations that are coming our way, on those departmental budgets in which all the policies envisaged will eventually have to find a place. Maybe it'll help if I highlight a few examples. They have been randomly chosen by me; many others can also be made up. For example, we are currently having a major social and political debate on the promotion of electric cars. Policy envisaged in the government agreement is to allow 100% of newly sold cars to be emission-free by 2030, i.e. electric cars or hydrogen cars instead of current fossil fuel cars. That is a plan in the coalition agreement. This is also a plan that will soon land in the climate agreement. So I can easily imagine that the cabinet will write in its first climate plan, which we will then receive at the end of this year: we aim to make 100% of the new sales of cars emission-free by 2030: we will support, drive, stimulate tax measures for the leasing market, tax measures for the second-hand market and roll out a whole network of loading posts, as we have read in the draft climate agreement. These are intentions contained in that climate plan, but then the government will have to include those fiscal measures in legislation and regulations. It will then be offered to both Chambers, and that is the time, as far as we are concerned, to amend it and to use our budget right and right of assent. So not with the five-year climate plan that is a bit more high left, but with the adoption of all these laws and regulations and the budget every year. Madam President, I would like to mention a few other examples, but I see that there is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u61	This is really a fantastic example of how to pump billions away without having to achieve one gram of useful effect on these CO emissions. Okay, those electric cars are clean for their immediate surroundings, but they run on electricity produced somewhere. Everyone thinks: oh, that's what we do with the windmills and the solar cells. No, we have talked about the maximum amount of renewable energy currently produced in the Netherlands. Then we are talking about 5.5% of the total energy consumption. That's the maximum we're gonna get now. Those cars are generating an additional electricity demand. So you have to look at what marginal electricity production is doing: with coal and with gas. So those cars don't run on wind, those cars run on coal! We've already spent a billion or six on that. This is precisely the kind of measures that we are so terrified of. Billions are wasted without any useful effect, even if you think that the goal of CO reduction should be achieved. But that is not achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u62	I knew in advance, of course, that if I give examples, there is a risk that we will discuss the content of these proposals together. I fully understand Mr Van Strien's reaction, because I think that we will also have a lot of debates in the House about the usefulness and necessity of stimulating electric cars and so on. But I do not think that is the debate we should be having now. Let me take advantage of Mr Van Strien's criticism here today to explain once again how we see the relationship between the climate plan, the legislation and the times when we as both Chambers can adjust to it. The climate plan is therefore a five-yearly plan submitted to both our chambers. The Minister will then have the debate with us on this in detail. We will all ask a lot of critical questions. If you do not agree with the intention to encourage these emission-free cars, you can table motions to persuade the Cabinet to amend the climate plan in these areas. You will then get or no majority for those motions. The cabinet will then work on it or not. The cabinet must then come back to you again with the elaboration of this tax measure. Then at that time you can support or not support those laws and regulations, amendments, etc. That is actually the cycle we are proposing in this Climate Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u63	I agree with Mr Jetten that this is just an example. That's the problem. On all kinds of local levels, plans are being made that cost mountains with money and that do not result in any CO reduction at all, which is your goal. That's exactly what we think is so bad about this law. A fantastic goal is set and then everyone is going to do something, which has no effect whatsoever. One thing we know for sure: if they have any effect, then there is still billions of waste. That's what it's about. That is my main problem: the billions of waste that this law causes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u64	I didn't hear a question. I think that Mr Van Strien is primarily calling on both our Chambers, but also on all the Provincial States and Municipal Councils, that it is our job in the coming years to closely monitor the cabinet and the colleges to see if they are cost-effective and useful in achieving those goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u65	I have a question for clarification. Mr Jetten actually outlined the process following this climate law, which was referred to as "framework law." So there will be a climate plan every five years after this, but I heard that this is another framework plan. Do we have to see it the same way again? Do we, too, only have high targets without a foundation under them, or are they filled with a financial paragraph as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u66	I fully agree with Mr Schalk. The climate plan must, of course, go much further. We, as initiators, propose that the first climate plan, to be presented to our Chambers at the end of this year, is actually a summary of the current energy agreement, the climate agreement to be concluded and other cabinet policies affecting climate policy. That is therefore very comprehensive. It is about almost all sectors, about proposed legislation and regulations, and about grant instruments and fiscal instruments that the government intends to use to achieve those goals. What I was trying to explain is that we, as initiators, have chosen not to attach a right of assent to that climate plan, which contains all these measures, because we, as a Chamber, will then deal with all these separate laws and regulations on all these different issues. At that time, we can amend and adopt or reject a bill. We can therefore see that the Court's right of assent is not in the process of examining the five-year climate plan, but in the process of drawing up all the proposals that follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u67	One final question for clarification. Then what do the Chambers do with the discussion of these climate plans? After all, they do not have to agree. They don't really need anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u68	I think that is also the discussion that we will conclude this evening, because, as I have just said, a number of your colleagues have proposed to increase the role of both chambers in relation to what we now have in the Climate Change Act. The idea behind the Climate Act is that if the climate plan will produce a strong and robust debate with the minister or several rulers on it, both chambers will also be given the opportunity to table motions on it, to amend the policy envisaged in the climate plan. To be honest, I am also confident that the cabinet will not ignore any motions tabled by one Chamber or two Chambers to change the direction of such a climate plan. The broad call here is to ensure that climate policy does not remain a polarising theme, but that it is a theme that can count on broad support in both society and in both chambers. By submitting motions to the climate plan after a wide-ranging debate, we will be able to change the policy envisaged. We can also check if a minister adapts such a climate plan to that. I think that we, as both Chambers, will stick to it in the drafting of all these laws and regulations. We can then say: in view of the climate plan and the statements made by the two Chambers in it, we believe that you have or have not responded to the call made by these Chambers in the drafting of these laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u69	I have a question about direction. You all take the word "trust" in your mouth a lot. I feel very strongly about this, but in the end it is also about direction in politics. What is the connection between this wonderful plan, the climate plan, and the individual measures which must also be approved separately by both chambers? Of course, a lot can go wrong there. It contains a kind of fallacy of the wrong level, to put it in good Dutch. It's about the coherence of things. You do not have the integrated climate plan, where I understand you do not choose the route of consent. You have arguments for that. The right of assent is then mainly in the case of individual measures. That's where the political game is going to be played, of course. That's where you're gonna have to deal with the pros and cons. How do these two stories relate to each other? What are the implications for the wider direction? That seems to me to be a very essential question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u70	Wouldn't it be helpful if Mr. Jetten answered this question, which I think is rather important, after dinner break?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u71	Ah, it might help to do that on a full stomach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u72	Then you can also think about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u74	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u75	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the own-initiative proposal 34534, the Climate Act. I give the floor to the initiator, Mr Jetten. I believe that you are now responding to Mr Ester's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u76	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I was very excited to defend a constitutional change here a few months ago, but if you had an hour to think about an interruption by Mr Ester, then the pressure is very high. Mr Ester's question was, I hope, to sum up: who keeps the direction of the climate plan and all climate policy? Mr Ester himself gave the following example. You've set the climate plan on main lines. There are a lot of measures and instruments that will lead to the achievement of these climate objectives in the coming years, but what if a bill falls? You actually pull a card out of that house of cards. Then who is responsible for monitoring the direction of the overall package presented in the climate plan? I would like to add: not only legislative proposals that, for some reason, do not make it in the Second or First Chamber, or departmental budgets that are being amended and are therefore being amended in relation to the climate plan, but perhaps also the observation in the climate paper that the targets are lagging behind, that the CO reduction is disappointing or that the CO reduction may be not so bad and that we can scale the policy down with less impact on society and industry. My answer contains a number of elements. First of all, the fact that eight political groups from the House of Representatives are here as initiators of this law shows that at least the House of Representatives has the willingness to take more direction on climate policy, because we believe that too little has happened in recent years. By submitting this initiative law as a Chamber, we show that we are prepared to take action ourselves if the cabinet is left behind. The direction is to a very large extent also with the Minister of Climate. He is not only responsible for drawing up the climate plan, and must include his colleagues in the cabinet who also deal with climate policy, but also consults with us annually the climate paper, in which he feedbacks the progress to us. If it is disappointing because legislative proposals are falling, because the objectives are lagging behind, or because the policy may not be so bad, then it is also up to the Minister to outline this to us in the climate paper, so that both chambers have the opportunity to adjust to that. In any case, I personally expect the climate coordinator to make active proposals to change the policy, but both chambers will then be able to draw more on the direction by means of motions, amendments or own-initiative legislation. It was, among other things, Mrs Fiers and I also believe Mr Binnema, who asked in their contribution whether it would not be good for the Chambers to reflect on how we want to increase and strengthen our commitment to climate policy during the year. Examples have been mentioned, such as thematic committees or rapporteurs, which are on top of that. It seems to me very sensible that we should continue to work this out with each other. We have organized this quite extensively on the side of the House of Representatives, for example around the Delta programme, with often one umbrella rapporteur reporting on the main lines of the Delta programme, and rapporteurs who deal in detail with specific projects of the Delta programme. The Second Committee of Parliament of Infrastructure and Water State also exchanges views on this at regular intervals with both the Delta Commissioner and the Minister. I can very well imagine that we will soon be putting this on the agenda of the climate plan and the climate note. Perhaps we could also examine with each other whether both Chambers could move in a little more together. I think Mrs Agnes Mulder's initiative is a very good example. She is rapporteur on behalf of the House of Representatives and is trying to get as many countries behind this 55% target in Europe as possible. Mrs Mulder visited the Benelux Parliament a number of times on behalf of the First and Second Chambers, and finally got her to participate in that lobby. I would very much welcome that kind of cooperation between our two chambers, because it gives us a greater role and enables us to be close to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u77	Thank you for the fact that, as I see it, you have spent the dinner break so usefully. I think what you are saying is important: given that the Climate Act is itself an administrative innovation, we need to move towards new forms of institutionalisation. You do not want us as both Chambers to have the right of assent as regards the whole measure and the climate plan. We'll be able to hear about that later. But that's a little lovely and a little little little. We really need to be much more creative and think of other things on the side of new forms of institutionalisation. It is good that you have said something about this at first, but it might be a little more than you have on offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u78	I agree with Mr Ester that we will not be ready if this climate law is adopted by your Chamber. Then there is certainly a lot of work to be done for all of us. We as eight initiators from the Lower House will certainly pick up that glove. I would also like to ask your Chamber a question back. I tried to explain why we as initiators chose not to include that right of assent in the Climate Act. I have heard some of you make suggestions for this in the first term. But we are trying to imagine that. Such a climate plan includes not only new policies, but also many ongoing policies. I have already given an example of the current energy agreement, which will also form an integral part of such a climate plan. Suppose one of our two chambers rejects that climate plan with that right of assent in its hand. Then what are you saying no to? Is that a no to the planned policy or is that a no to all the current policies? We have already discussed this with each other in the first suspension today. We didn't quite get out of there. That also seems to me to be a very interesting part of going further with you in the second term, but I hope that I have now been able to explain why this initiative proposal does not include that right of assent in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u79	Mr Jetten is going a long way with that rejection. Here it sometimes happens that a bill is rejected, but in the Lower House I think it almost never happens, because a bill is repeated until it has a majority. That's what I'm imagining with a climate plan. However, you cannot agree with the initial proposals that the government comes with, but then you can amend: this will be different, that will be different, that will be different, and then we will be okay with it. Surely that is a very normal process in our parliamentary democracy when it comes to important decisions? I assume you also think that a climate plan is an important decision. So I don't really see the point of saying: say what you have to say about it; in the end, we will put it to Parliament, because that is the voice of the people. Is that how you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u80	Mr Reuten outlines a common process, but that is, I think, mainly about legislative proposals. As I have said before, the climate plan is, in our view, a comprehensive and comprehensive outline of all the measures and policies envisaged to achieve the climate targets. In my view, Mr Atsma referred to the key planning decision, where amendments were made to increase the role of one of the two chambers. But you can see that in the new Environment Act, another position has been chosen. We compare the Climate Act not so much with a legislative proposal, but rather with planned policies, as you do at Prinsjesdag, for example, in which the Cabinet makes a sketch of where it wants to go in the coming years with the Millions' Note and all related documents. That is what the debate is about. By means of motions we amend the government's planned policy from both chambers. We then have the right of assent and the right of amendment in the departmental budgets and legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u81	In my view, in response to Mr Ester's interruption, it has been concluded that a climate plan must be integrated and that it is not possible to pull a slice out of it. Because it is a total package, that is all the more reason to submit that climate plan, that integrated climate plan, to Parliament. Mr Jetten has just admitted to Mr Ester that this is the way it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u82	That's right. I believe that this has been said earlier in response to an interruption by Mr Schalk. Again, the climate plan is being discussed in both chambers. We will then have the opportunity to discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u83	We've read the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u84	I am sorry if I repeat myself, but I am trying to outline why we have to use the right terms in this Climate Law now. I think that the right of consent is not necessary if both Chambers and the Cabinet can adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u85	That is your view. A number of people in this Chamber feel differently about this, because it is not a small issue, it is not a small one, it is something that society lays down for years. That's the kind of huge decision you leave to parliament, not just the government? I mean, we can also go home when it comes to important decisions; then we can make the less important decisions like Chambers. You understand I charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u86	Sure. In my view, it is the challenge of both chambers not to let the cabinet get away with it, that is to treat the climate plan seriously and in detail and not to let the minister get away with it either. When the climate plan has been dealt with by one of the two chambers, we want to see, in an elaboration of the climate plan and in the underlying laws and regulations, that the cabinet has implemented those motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u87	Mr. Reuten, at least!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u88	Yeah, mini! Mr Jetten has just said that there are four opposition parties and four coalition parties that have found each other. In the Lower House you can make a motion. You can do that in the First Chamber, but that's different. If the government rejects a motion, then the coalition parties will have nothing to do with blowing up the coalition. That's a really big instrument. I wonder if it's gonna come to this. The way of amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u89	You said you'd be brief. You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u90	The way of amending a climate plan is much less far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u91	Yes, but we cannot amend it here. It'll be a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u92	I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u93	I agree. Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u94	This is a point of principle, I think. Let me see if I got this right. You're actually saying this is the law and we're making a plan. And that plan is actually a policy plan. Let me translate this into the sector I'm better at. In October, the Minister of Education will present a policy plan for higher education for the coming years. That's discussed in both chambers. It has old and new policies in it. We can then say: 'Hey, there is a chapter missing and we want it to be in it.' Then we'll give direction to the discussions. Then the Minister finds out, heard the two chambers. Then there will be laws implementing this plan. Then, of course, things are going the way they always are. In fact, the climate plan is something we do in other sectors as well. The climate plan is not a climate law. I honestly think that's where the confusion lies. Did I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u95	Yes, my thanks to Mr Pijlman are great, because I think he has summarised this very well for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u96	I actually had a question along the lines of what Mr Pijlman said. As I said in my first term, I actually see the climate plan as a hybrid document which contains a number of reflections on climate, what technological developments there are, what European developments there are and what progress has been made on technology and science. In addition, there are a number of measures deemed necessary to meet the 2050 targets. Where the right of assent is concerned, I imagine that this will be about the laws and legislation resulting from the measures announced or mentioned in the climate plan. I'd like to get a confirmation of this. At the same time, we actually have three different instruments or three moments in our hands with the climate report, the climate review and the biennial progress report on the climate plan, at which both chambers can assess whether the measures taken will bring us closer to that goal. As far as you are concerned, therefore, is that the time when the debate on consent and the approval or rejection of the efforts the cabinet has undertaken or intends to undertake should take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u97	I can actually answer both questions with yes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two other points. First of all, the importance of good civic participation. Mrs Fiers and Mr Binnema both paid attention to this in their first term. Forgive me if I've forgotten about one of the other senators. Article 5 ensures that knowledge institutions, businesses and residents can share their views and concerns about the climate plan and the underlying policies. But your Chamber was right to point out that we need to avoid only the usual suspects and exploit the opportunities for civic participation. I think there is a very big role for all three levels of government. We will see at national level the usual suspects presenting views. As chambers, we can try to involve more people with hearings and round tables. But I see, in fact, a very great opportunity for our fellow governments. Many regions and provinces are currently preparing their regional energy strategy. This is an excellent opportunity to involve as many people as possible at local and regional level in the question of what objective the region has for renewable energy production. What means are we prepared to use for this? Is that wind? Is that sun? Are there any other options? Where in our region do we want to do that? The great test of citizen participation in climate policy is really in the heat transition over the next few years. At the level of villages and cities, we want to get rid of Groningen natural gas at some point. At local level, we will have to look with municipalities, grid operators and corporations to see if we will switch to full electric, hybrid solutions or a heat grid. How do we take residential areas with us? I think there are some 20 pilot projects spread across the country. You can see that we're learning how to take neighborhood residents in a good way. We must also manage the expectations at the front. People should also be given the opportunity to think and talk about the best solution to solve that heat demand. So I think that citizen participation is on a lot of levels and a lot of levels. If that climate agreement is to be final, hopefully in a few weeks' time, it is really up to this minister to think about what that means for the climate table process. You gonna keep doing that? You want another trial? That's something the cabinet should take us into over the next few weeks, I think. But the great opportunity and also the great challenges of civic participation lie at the level of the co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u98	Those regional energy strategies should indicate a minimum percentage of wind and a minimum percentage of solar energy. This means that this cannot be freely determined at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u99	That's right. That's why I also said that at the front you have to do the expectations management right away and state what a legal obligation is. I do think that since the energy agreement we have learned that we should not only impose the number of wind turbines in one region from above, but also give regions the opportunity to think about other solutions. I myself have been working in a number of regions lately. There I saw that it also works now, that people think about it and say: we might want less windmills here, so can we do more with sun on rooftops or with geothermal heat? With these regional energy strategies, we have therefore laid down more direction in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u100	So as freely as you now suggest that they are, they are not at all, because they really need to set a minimum percentage of wind and a minimum percentage of sun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u101	Sure. You shouldn't hide that when you start a regional energy strategy. You should not imagine it more beautiful than it is, because then you will indeed get disappointments in such a process, in which people like to participate in thinking about the solutions for their region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u102	I am hearing all kinds of possibilities for how this citizen participation can take shape and content at different levels of government. Do I understand that the initiators also believe that the climate plan, which we will soon be able to see first, or in the autumn, sets out in detail how this citizen participation should take shape and content? Is that going to be an integral part of the climate plan? What is now in the law is quite minimal. There's a viewing procedure, but that's a little thin. Is that a yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u103	We have chosen, in my view, to align Article 5 as much as possible with what we do in other policy areas. Mrs Fiers is actually calling on the Minister and all of us to do more than just an opinion. In any case, I wholeheartedly endorse that. In the concept of climate change agreement, VNG and IPO also stated that they want financial support or support with hands at their levels to shape citizen participation in a good way if the government wants them to play a very important role in it. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's getting wider. But we have tried in the Climate Law to align as much as possible with the process of views as we know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u104	But we have the same idea about that in the climate plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u105	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last question, which has also been asked by Mrs Fiers. She mentioned a number of areas for which laws may need to be amended if you adopt this Climate Act. Competition legislation and state aid legislation have been mentioned by Mrs Fiers. I think these are very legitimate questions. We, as initiators, would like the cabinet to outline in the first climate plan the areas in which legislative changes are envisaged to achieve the objectives of the climate plan and the climate agreement. It should not only be an outline of the areas in which these legislative changes may occur, but also a legislative agenda for the period for which both Chambers can expect them from the Cabinet. Mr President, I hope that I have answered all the questions that have been put to us in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u106	I spoke 20 minutes ago and asked only four questions. I did that very consciously. The first question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u107	You're not gonna do your whole story again, are you, Mr. Reuten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u108	No, I want to remind you of a question that I haven't had an answer to. My first question was whether the initiators could in principle have chosen to submit the climate plan to Parliament for approval, or to cast it in the form of a law, for example a framework law. My question is whether they could have chosen this in principle, regardless of what the conclusion was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u109	I think we could have chosen that in principle. We didn't. I have tried to describe as well as possible how we have come to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u110	I think that is an important observation, so it is simply an opportunity for which the initiators, at least collectively, have not chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u111	If I may respond to that, I think that Mr Reuten has made a good statement in his speech on how you could do that. We did not choose it with these eight parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u112	Okay. Another question that I have not had an answer to. I have argued that the current design of the bill gives a future government room to say: we support the objectives of the bill, but we are doing something different because there are other priorities as well. Do the initiators recognize that space is there? And do they recognize that this is not the apparent intention of the bill, given the reaction I received in the written procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u113	I think Mr Klaver has just made an attempt to answer this question. That space is indeed there, because there are no automatic penalties under this climate law if those objectives are not met. But it is precisely with the cycle of the annual climate note that we force the Cabinet to account every year for where it stands in achieving the objectives set out in the Climate Law and the Climate Plan. It is indeed up to both our chambers to check the cabinet and act accordingly if we believe that the cabinet is doing too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u114	Finally, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u115	Does Mr Jetten recognise that, if you do submit the climate plan to Parliament for approval, the government has less room for manoeuvre on this point, depending of course on the composition of the parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u116	I'm gonna have to think about that because you're gonna have less space. With the consent of the climate plan, it is then up to the cabinet to deliver with those laws and regulations and all the instruments we have mentioned. I don't think that space would be more or less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u117	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u118	Mr. Reuten, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u119	We're in the middle of a round of unanswered questions, I believe. I had asked a question and Mr Klaver did address it for a while, but I do not have it very clearly. It's about the climate agreement. I know we're not talking about that today, but it's hovering over us. We know it's coming. There are about 130 measures, and 470 have not yet been taken. Do those numbers make sense? I see the Minister shaking no, so I'll be happy to hear how it's different. Whatever the case, isn't it true that at least the low-hanging fruit will initially be picked so that we can reach 2030, but that it will become much more complicated by 2050? That is a very crucial question. Then there is the second question. Should we assume, although we are not talking about the climate agreement, that the climate agreement as a whole will become part of the so-called five-yearly climate plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u120	To the last question, the answer is yes. Mr Schalk's first part of the question would be better answered by the Minister, because I find it difficult to deal with it so specifically as one of the eight initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u121	You're done answering your question? Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u122	Mr. Chairman. I'm allowed to stand here in my role as an advisor. A lot of questions have been asked by those present, both to the initiators and to the government. That gives a certain risk of duplication. A lot of questions have also been asked about government policy that is on the way, but is not there yet. This presents a very high risk of gaps. I am particularly at risk of talking about matters that the people present here know or I do not know yet. My only way out, that's how I came up with it, is conciseness. I don't see another way out. I'm gonna try that. The question of why has been asked to me. Why this law? Two of the initiators have already referred to something that has happened in the recent past and has caused us a bit of a bruise, which has made us feel that it is a good thing to regulate parliamentary involvement firmly. That has already been mentioned, that is the energy agreement. The energy agreement has led to many things, including a huge reduction in the cost of wind at sea. We owe it all to this and we reap the benefits of it, but at the same time that bruise is there in the sense that both Chambers suddenly noticed something was there. They didn't know exactly what, but they did know they hadn't been so involved. And we shouldn't do that anymore, because the subject is too important. I'll say a few things about that later. We need to ensure that there is a clear and appropriate way for everyone, call it a framework, as GroenLinks says, to ensure that parliamentary involvement is secured and that Parliament has information from independent sources to base decisions, that there is a policy phase, that there is then legislation and that the whole cycle is complete. That proposal is here now. First of all, that's useful because it could solve that bruise. Furthermore, I am asking as a non-subscriber, and may I say this independently: in which country do you see eight political parties making a joint proposal? That has a certain Dutch beauty. I'd like to point that out. The newspaper readers among you may see some grunting, but this is also the Netherlands. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u123	That is, of course, because we have a lot of political parties in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u124	That is precisely the point that I had deleted from my text. There have been several insertions. There were speakers who said, "There's really nothing in it. There are no measures at all." But others have said other things: 50PLUS, but Mr Van Strien has also complained about concrete measures. He says, "There's way too much boarding up." I am also thinking of the "numbered terraces" of 50PLUS. But I myself have not found numbered terraces in the proposal of the initiators nor in other proposals. No, there are no policy measures in this. This regulates the framework. So the law regulates that there is climate policy and that the Chamber has an influence on it, but it does not have to come out of it in the end. That is actually just an answer to the slight annoyance I heard from Mr Schalk. I do not hear him so much annoyed, but I have heard him say that all kinds of climate measures have been devised at tables, while the people's representatives were not sitting at those tables. That is the purpose of this law: to ensure that Mr Schalk and other representatives of the people come to that table democratically. Because no, our country is not ruled by tables. Yes, the innovations can be devised outside parliament. I guess that's almost always the way it is. New initiatives are often taken in society. All kinds of things come from society, but democratic decision-making takes place here, not at tables. And that is precisely because of Mr Schalk's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u125	Mr Jetten has just assured me that what has been baked at those tables, namely the climate agreement, will soon have to enter into the climate plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u126	Well, as you know, there's still a government in there. You have also seen that a draft climate agreement came from the tables and that the government has indicated on a number of points that it is not the same. We know that Mr Schalk and others will not speak to the tables on the outcome, but to the government. We like to keep it that way, because that's the way it's supposed to be. So that means that the government must also take responsibility for what eventually happens. And the government will have to implement it with laws. But the government will first have to expose itself to all the questions and concerns, including those in this Chamber. That's how we want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u127	I very much agree with the Minister, but it is very good that this is being said. I have just heard from Mr Jetten that it is different: the climate agreement is coming into the climate plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u128	Well, I didn't hear them say that. And I also think that some of the initiators here will appeal to the government about what will be in that plan. They won't turn to the tables. I can count on that, can't I? I'm hearing some corroborating noises around me. That's what I thought! I see we agree on a lot of things in this country. Then we'll get to those targets. Because is it the case that if you want to regulate parliamentary order and Parliament's involvement, then there must be goals in it? Well, they're in there quite often. Laws on air quality and the environment often have standards, so they are often in them. But in this case there is another reason, because we already know these goals. They're old acquaintances. If we say there must be a 95% reduction by 2050, it's already been through here with you. The ratification law has also been passed by you. We've already decided that. That's an old acquaintance. That's nothing new. This objective of fully CO-neutral electricity production simply follows from the scenarios. Because if you want to reach the first, you're stuck with the second. Yeah, there are also scenarios that say you have to have negative emissions with your power supply. That may be true, but positive emissions from electricity are not part of the scenarios, so that just follows. And also about the third goal, the 49%, I don't have to be very secretive: that's what I'm getting at with............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We've drawn the line between now and 2050, and then you come up with something for 2030. And that too, live the ruler! It follows from what has already been decided here. I will have to live with that, because we know that laws are passed by parliamentarians and not by members of the government. Mr Schalk has also made the analogy with NATO and pointed out that the 2% NATO target is very much cheaper than the climate target, but I will get to that in a moment. He says: well, that would be something; if we do it this way with goals, I might want to have a 2% target in the law. But, yes, that is the difference between a 2% target in the field of defence and climate policy. Mr Schalk can easily draw from a single document, the annual defence budget, exactly whether the 2% is achieved or not. He does not need any other integral document or overarching law to do so. That's a little different with climate. The climate goal comes from the addition of, but also the interaction between, a variety of different policy areas and various departments. That overarching, common goal requires some coordination. This would be beneficial if we were to write down an objective somewhere other than in a single budget. That's what we did here; that's what the initiators did here. That is quite logical, and the Council of State agrees with this in its opinions. It says that a goal in this law, a goal for climate policy, is useful. I believe they use the word "useful." So there's a certain difference with the defense budget. Now we have goals, and if you don't make them, what happens? Mr Ten Hoeve said, very nuanced, for which I thank him, that it may be attractive that we do not bring about Urgenda-like situations here. At the same time, however, it is a question of whether, in his words, that should not be regulated a little tighter. That's actually the question. But then back to the purpose of this law. The purpose of this law is to involve Parliament in policy-making, not to place the judge in a political chair. Given that objective, it is logical that we commit ourselves without bringing in the judicial system immediately. In my view, that should be the answer. There is also a lot of question about how to decide on the Climate Act if you do not know the costs. I will come back to the size of the costs later. It's a question that's been asked, but right now it's the main issue. I must remind you that the Paris targets have already been ratified here. The joke of this climate law is that, in intensive treatment, within a framework and with a proper cycle, we can talk about what that policy should be, what it may cost and what the impact of that policy is. That is what this proposal is for, precisely in order to be able to have that conversation. So anyone who is concerned about costs should be us, but I'm going to have to come back to that later to embrace the fact that this climate law is forcing us to talk to each other over and over again. The big cost up to 2050 doesn't exist. There are estimates, but I will come back to that in a moment. Another point that has been raised a great deal is the so-called approval of the plan. But that is, of course, essentially about the role of Parliament. That too is important, precisely because that is the bruise it started with. That's why we're doing this. That is the central point, and that may be asked. So that's what this law is about. Whether it was Mr Pijlman or Mr Binnema, I can no longer trump them, because they have explained it very clearly. In that cycle there are government plans, as in so many other areas. The Millions note is a plan, but also structural visions, the Regional Planning Act, the MIRT, the NOVI and all legislation in the field of nitrogen and air quality. There is a plan and then we have the 200-year tradition of discussing it with each other. There is a tradition that the government takes motions seriously, also because otherwise it could be sent away ultimate. That's how you talk about a plan and then legislation comes along. There is only one person who can say yes or no to this legislation, and those are the people present here. That's a big difference between a bill and a plan. That is the case in all these areas, and we have always done so. If every policy plan were to follow the route of a bill, you would in fact create a very busy task for this Chamber, because then it becomes co-ruled. That was never really the intention, and none of the speakers found the intention. The Council of State's opinion on the handling of this plan has been explicitly followed, so it is as the Council of State suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u129	Now the Minister is talking very thoroughly about the nature of such a climate plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u130	No, I don't think so, but I'll come back to the amending motion. I believe that we should be careful not to prejudice the position of Parliament or the position and roles of future governments because of our debate on the right of assent. I assume that none of the speakers here means that Parliament's influence must come purely from the ability to vote on a plan. The instruments of the Chamber are so much wider and more powerful than that. The power of the House of Representatives, from co-legislator to government auditor, contains so many instruments and ways, all tried and tested in hundreds of years, to influence policy, other than by chance to vote on a plan and then pretend it is. That is not the case, because after that there is something every year and things happen in between. We have to stay focused on it all the time. So let us not shrink Parliament's powers to this and make Parliament less important than it is. At the same time, the speakers cannot mean that the next Cabinets are so weak that it will no longer be possible without the co-government of Parliament. That's not what we're talking about. So I think we should try to do this well in order to have a strong parliamentary commitment to climate change. That is essential. This cabinet also wants to live up to that, just within parliamentary traditions, with all the instruments that the Chambers have for that. The suggestion that government parties in the Chamber automatically vote with the government when they move is a fantasy that I really must reject Mr Reuten from this position. Maybe I hope so sometimes in my sweetest dreams, but that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u131	I think that the Minister is a little self-explanatory and the sitting cabinet and perhaps the initiators too. This cabinet has shown, at least in words, that it wants something, but over the next twenty years there will be many other types of cabinet, from another Schnitt, who may be much less sympathetic towards the climate objectives. I think you should take that into account in a law that has such an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u132	The forthcoming governments may have a variety of views on a variety of subjects, but we have the parliament for that, with the controlling role of both chambers, and the possibility of tabling motions to let the government know that Parliament wants something or is not of any use. That's always worked. Mr Atsma suggests another figure. He's talking about the amendment motion. That was just a study for me, because I know the amendment from the Constitution and the motion from the Rules of Procedure, but the amendment? It is true that it is contained in the Acts with regard to the key planning decision. The planetary core decision was also a bit of a strange animal, because that was pseudo-law, to mention it. It wasn't really legislation, but it did have direct effect in municipal zoning plans. We wouldn't do it like this anymore, and we're not doing it like this anymore. But apart from that, I think we're fooling ourselves with that figure a little bit. Something is a motion or an amendment. The motion is the instrument of the Chamber with regard to plans. There is also the amendment. I expressly believe that we should not begin to make the motion less important than it is. After all, we all know that governments regularly change their policies when they find that the parliament wants to move in a certain direction and that they also look ahead and see that certain laws may not make it. That's the power of our system. Mr. Chairman. Then there are also a lot of questions about future policy. Of course, I cannot really answer questions about that, because future policy is future. It's not here yet. So I'm not going to do any details on what a CO levy might look like. I can tell you what it's supposed to meet, but you already know that. I am certainly not going to comment on the car plan of the municipality of Amsterdam, because it is not up to me to judge fellow governments if they work within their powers. But it may be useful to say something about the direction of this cabinet's policy and to respond to a few concerns that have been mentioned here at a higher level of abstraction. I am not going to talk specifically about concrete measures, but I think this point has been made most clearly by Mr Ester of the Christian Union. For every part of the debate, there is always someone who has said something most clearly, but here I am thinking of Mr Ester of the Christian Union, who points to a certain polarisation in the debate, if I may put it that way. The social debate is folded into two camps. We know from research that 70% of the Dutch believe that man has an influence on global warming, if a few thousand scientists have counted on it. They also believe that this is not always beneficial, that as a responsible country you simply have to do something about it and that you have to manage the so-called negative external effects. There's no political ideology that says you can store garbage in the neighbor's garden. There isn't one. A lot of Dutch people think it is quite normal that we should do something in a normal, perhaps not too ideological way. Most Dutch don't get very excited about it, but they don't get very excited about it either. So that goes for two thirds of the Dutch. But the two camps are dominant. One camp says that the earth is hardly actually warming up, and if the earth is already warming up, it's hardly because of us. Moreover, a higher temperature is good for the plants, it costs by the way 1,000 billion, so we shouldn't do that. The other camp says that the earth will perish, our grandchildren will not survive, we must take our whole lives now. They talk about Amersfoort aan zee and about seven meters sea level rise in the Netherlands. The cost, as these people sometimes trust me, does not matter: "Mister Wiebes, do you see that when the earth dies, we have no income at all?" Those are the two camps. This cabinet feels that if there is reasonable scientific evidence that something is going on, it will not help deny it. And if you don't deny it, but accept it, doing nothing isn't an option either. So if you have to do something, then it doesn't make much sense to wait for everyone else to do something. So you have to do something yourself. Then there is the argument that the Netherlands is only such a small country. That's true. But if we divide every world problem into small parts, according to that reasoning, we never have to do anything again, so I have never been very sensitive to that. So we're gonna do something. Mr Ester's question is: how are we going to bridge that gap? I think there are only a few things that we have made into government policy. My description of this is always: the reasonable middle, that 70% of Dutch people who are willing to do something about it in a reasonable way, provided that it is reasonable. I have a number of comments to make on this reasonable point. The first is that it has to be in a cost-effective way. We have independent referees for that, but costs matter and burdens matter. We can say that greater interests are at stake here, but still costs for acceptance. Half of Parliament's discussions affect income and purchasing power in one way or another. That's what people care about, and so do many here and me. So costs matter. That means, in my rather ungrateful role, that I have to pay attention to what scientists say about it. Whether you take the International Energy Agency, the IPCC, the PBL or whatever, the most cost-effective route is one in which you use a wide range of techniques and do not exclude things. That means that you see me all the time arguing that we should not exclude wind on land, but that we should not say no to wind at sea, even though I am talking about the stick with the birds, the fish, the boats and the aircraft, which may pose risks to geothermal energy, but that we should not rule out the possibility that CO2 storage, as stated in the government agreement, should not be excluded, that nuclear energy should not be excluded and that sensible biomass should not be excluded. That's my fight, because if you rule something out, it's gonna be a lot more expensive. But how much is it gonna be if you don't rule that out? There's a lot of stories about that. I sometimes think we should read those very thick reports from the PBL. It's not an exciting book. You do not have to read 98% of the pages, but somewhere there is a passage on what amount all the scientists who have worked on them will be. How much is this? The cost of climate policy is slowly rising to 2030. These costs are less than half a percent of our gross domestic product. Less than half a percent. Care costs 13%. Moreover, this cabinet period alone will cost 10 billion more and the AOW 5 billion more. This is less than half a percent. Let's do the math. That's what this means. Between now and 2030, our income is increasing from 100 to 100. Can I gamble? 1 100% or 120% of today. Our income soon is 110 or 120. Let it be 120 and now 100. That means that half a percent of those 120, 0.6% are for climate and we can all eat the other 119.4% ourselves. Is that poverty? We can afford this. Can Dutch people live with the fact that they only get 19.4% richer in their spending experience? Then I do not count on the money going to a more comfortable house, quieter transport, cleaner air and that there is no money going to oil countries. I'll give you some in return. That's the cost. That's the first of the reasonable centers. It takes a lot of effort to pay attention to that. All independent referees have been engaged. That should be the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u133	Unfortunately, that reasonable cost of half a percent does not support what exactly half a percent is made up of, what happens to it. I made one point. This is the fact that in some provinces people are already being actively talked about not being able to pay for the heat pump, the associated underfloor heating, in short, the whole climate neutral of the house, nor can they increase their mortgage to transfer the bare ownership of the land to either the province or some investment fund. It's a solution. I also asked the Minister's reaction to this. Is he gonna get there or is he gonna be able to say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u134	I am not going to respond to any proposals that have not yet been made, but I would like to say the following. Everyone who owns the house decides what happens to his house. I would also point out to Mr Van Strien that the draft proposals explicitly stated that people should be able to move to a new situation neutrally, and that the so-called heat fund should be created for financing needs. That means that we want to enable people to get to that comfortable house without having to pay for it. That doesn't all happen in one year. We have more than 30 years to do that. Previously, a generation was 25 years old, but now a generation is 30 years old. So, within a generation, we must be able to seduce all those people to move to a new situation without losing blood, and to give them a more attractive home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u135	I would like to go back to that half-percent, which in the second sentence turned 0.6%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u136	That's half a percent of 120.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u137	Yes, but you said half a percent first and then 0.6%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u138	Sure, because half a percent of 120 is 0.6.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u139	Oh, half a percent of 120. Okay. Yeah, I knew you could count faster than I could; it's turned out again. But make that concrete. How much is that per capita? This is a percentage that sounds very low, but what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u140	This is the total amount that we would have lost in 2030, according to the last estimate of the Plan Bureau for the Environment, on top of our current costs in the baseline path. These costs are both for business and for individuals. Now, of course, costs for the business community are partly returned to private individuals, as individuals are customers, shareholders or pension beneficiaries, who thus have dividends. But that's the total cost. You can't just turn it over to households. Some of them will simply end up in the inflation rate and will also be compensated by wages, but that's how you see it. The figures can also be done by Mr Schalk himself, but they are not very meaningful, because they do not yet say anything about the distribution and how you see those costs. For example, it's not a cost that you see one-on-one in your energy bill. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u141	No, I understand all that; it is 0.6% of 120, if we assume 100. But how much money is it? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u142	Our gross domestic product is.................................................................................................................................................... Half a percent of that is 4 billion. The last estimate of the PBL was somewhere between 2 and 3 billion, so less than half a percent. The first estimate was somewhere between 2.5 and 4 billion. The estimates have therefore fallen slightly, because it was discovered that there were new opportunities to reduce costs. That's about the amount. That's half a percent. And just so you know, in the care sector, it's 13%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u143	Sure. So we're talking about the four billion a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u144	At the moment it's 2 to 3 billion in the estimates, but I'm doing it a little spacious. It's less than 4 billion. Mr. Chairman. That's one: affordability. It's crucial. The second is that we should not wait for foreign countries, but should not drive our businesses and jobs away. That is also important, because people do not want to see their income disappear, but they want to see their jobs disappear even less. I am sure that I have been able to experience in this job that if there is a company in danger of disappearing somewhere, whether or not due to government policy, everyone is at the interrupt microphone. Everyone is concerned about this, because everyone knows that this is about people, families, households and local communities. I do not know how many parliamentary debates I have been reminded of Siemens in Hengelo. The gas turbine wasn't sold much anymore, and that plant had to do something else. There was great concern about that. That was about 600 people, but on an average working day 1,000 jobs are added in the Netherlands. Even if limited employment is threatened, we find it a problem with each other, and 'we' are also a problem with 'we'. Employment must therefore remain in the Netherlands. We have announced a sensible tax on this. We are now working out this sensible tax; it will come as soon as it comes. I would also like to comment on Mr Van Strien's remarks on this point. In his speech, he stated that he was the first, so everyone would listen very carefully to the fact that the industry is being chased away. That surprises me, because Mr Van Strien is talking about a non-existent government proposal that is not on the agenda today, and the only thing the government has said about it so far is the opposite of what Mr Van Strien says, namely that the jobs must not run away. So I lost the logic of Mr Van Strien. But that is not a question to Mr Van Strien, because the questions are asked to me and not the other way around. He can do whatever he wants, but I am suggesting that a proposal is being sought which does not remove the businesses and thus the jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u145	Let me give you one example of the Minister's cost calculation just now. It's 4 billion a year. This means that the Economic Institute for Construction has just been fantasizing, because if it is just about making the houses energy neutral, they will come to EUR 235 billion. Then you don't even come up with that 4 billion for the total in 30 years to make all the houses energy neutral. I really have no confidence in the calculations that the Minister is making now and which he is going to make in the future. That's why I think he's gonna drive the industry away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u146	The household bill does not yet have a direct relationship with industry, so now I miss Mr Van Strien's logic again. We have entered the debate at a good time, in which I say that I cannot follow Mr Van Strien's logic. Then he tells me he can't follow my logic and then I answer that I can't follow his logic again. But let me help him a little bit. Such sums are, of course, made by physicists and business experts. Mr Van Strien is both. So he will be able to follow my explanation. He could have worked at the Planning Office for the Environment. But adding up investment, without cutting the savings, is just bullshit. That's bullshit. This means that all saving investments, all efficiency gains in this society, go through his life as cost increases, because he counts the investment, but not the savings. That's not right at all, is it? Anyone who studied physics and business administration knows that. So that's bullshit, just bullshit. There are also things where I can follow Mr Van Strien directly. I've confessed that before. If his eyes start shining at the fourth generation of nuclear power, so will mine. So it is not at all true that in general I cannot follow Mr Van Strien's reasoning, but I had a bad time here. There is a third pillar that seeks this cabinet passionately as part of the reasonable middle. That reasonable middle line is a little mercantilistic in the Dutch language that we think we should also make money from that transition. Cost increases and investment must lead to employment somewhere. Bringing less money to oil countries means that we are somehow replacing something with our own employment. That means that other countries do the same. And we'd rather be exporters than importers. We are not more ambitious than other countries. The initiators stressed this in this debate too, but we want to start that ambition a little earlier. That 49% fits Germany just as well. Soon we will be talking to the governments of the surrounding countries. But we want to start a bit earlier, because we want to be exporters, as we have been exporters of waterworks and of all kinds of other things in this society. Let's start with it in a cautious way earlier so we can just make something out of it. There's nothing wrong with that. That's the third part of what I call the reasonable middle. There's a few things that go with that, but we have to do that with each other. That's what I need you for. And that's that we don't have to sell nonsense to all kinds of Dutch people all day long. That would be nice, too. People get very worried about that. If I am bombed all day with numbers that are wrong but impressive, then at some point I also think: something is wrong here. That's not good. In all kinds of areas of society it is nice to have a nice story, but it is even more fun to contribute to a calm transition, step by step, in a sensible, affordable way, which simply leads us to what we signed in Paris. I also think that has a beauty, but that requires a little more self-limitation, a little more thinking and a little more calculators. That's important. I'm trying. No, not so many people listen to that, I know, but I'm gonna go on quietly. Where does that lead? I would like to stress, in response to the Christian Union, which does not say so clearly, so I do not say so either, that this cabinet in itself does not think that it is necessary to change our level of prosperity and well-being. We may have to, no sure, go to another way of producing, other energy sources, throw away or reuse other ways of your stuff, circular agriculture. Yeah, things are gonna be different. But it's not like this cabinet is obligated to drive a Tesla. This cabinet doesn't stop anyone from showering. I'm a father of teenagers of 16 and 17, so I'm eight less showers, too, not always in the public interest. Nor is anyone sentenced to the vegetable disc. You can see them eating me, but I don't have to make you do that. That's not the point. That's not what the climate agreement is about, it's not about vegetable discs and showering. This is about producing differently in all kinds of ways, step by step, over a generation of time, and we are going to enjoy our prosperity and well-being in a different way. That's what it is, and that includes a climate agreement. Oh, yeah, that's for sure. We have to make policies in so many areas. We don't get enough for all the tables either, I can say. Some tables got an insufficient, so there's still quite a bit to fix. That's what we're working on. That's what's gonna happen. By then, we'll talk about that policy, even here. This law for this cabinet is not a kind of milestone that changes society as a whole. This law is a way of speaking with each other in a structured dialogue between government and Chamber about a challenge that we have over 30 years to face and which requires changes from us in all kinds of areas. The cabinet is looking forward to that structured conversation. We are going to talk about all these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u147	We passed a motion in this Chamber not so long ago. We would like the reports from these climate tables to be publicly available. The Minister is now talking about a number of different figures. Apparently, he often doesn't follow my figures, but neither do I. At least we agree on that. But why doesn't he help us by just making those reports of the climate tables public? What does that have to wait for and why? At least we can talk about numbers coming from there. We'll both be able to read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u148	The talks at the climate tables are not about figures other than what we should know. The Planning Office for the Environment is our provider of figures. That produces very thick reports. I have just told Mr Van Strien about a very interesting page from there. There are also attachments and sessions in which all kinds of experts can learn more about what is happening under the hood. Those reports are public. There will also be new reports. We have a cycle for that, because that is also part of this Climate Law. There will be new plans every time and they will get better and better because they will be tightened up. We're all gonna see that over the next few years. Those numbers are leading and public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u149	Mr Wiebes says that these figures are not relevant, but we cannot judge them because we do not get them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u150	No, I was talking about the interview reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u151	We'll get those figures, but when the discussion is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u152	I'd like to respond to Mr. Van Strien. I supported that motion from the PVV back then. It doesn't happen that often. However, a comment was made by the Minister for the Interior. People have to give their own permission if they didn't know before that business would go public. Moreover, the committee has also been discussed once again when it does or does not, so I think that this is quite unnecessary, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u153	Well, you'll get away with it, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u154	I'm saved. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u155	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for answering the questions. Unfortunately, I have to say that the biggest problems and the questions have not been resolved for my group. This is mainly due to the fact that, in our view, a completely unattainable objective has been set, which we would have to go to in the years to come, without any clarity as to how that objective should and could be achieved. I think that is not just the case with my group. Only one thing we know for sure. We are convinced that the costs will be enormous. This is best illustrated by the figure on current renewable energy consumption. On at least one thing I agreed with Mr Pijlman today, namely the current renewable energy consumption of about 5.5%. I'm just saying, about 5.5%. This has increased by only 0.7% in six years, despite billions of grants. My group fears with great fear that this will be an illustration of the immediate future. The Minister mentions four billion as average costs per year, even if these are investments minus returns. These investments, too, seem far from realistic to me. It means that our total judgment of this law has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u157	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the initiators and thanks for the answer. You've been very honest. It's really weird that I say that, because, of course, every ruler is always honest. But what I mean is that you said clearly: it is simply a compromise, otherwise we would not hold that broad coalition. I liked that Klaver said in his introduction: what we have done is to overcome the differences that exist, together. I think that's the power of this law, too. We all know that if that plan is there, translated into laws, those differences are there again. However, my position is that it gives everyone who signs this law an obligation to take other initiatives if we reject measures, because sometimes we will. It forces us to take other initiatives so that the objectives set out in it are met. Then you have a very different debate than before. That's the power of this law. Eight parties are at the table. I should like to say quite frankly that I myself find it extremely regrettable that this does not apply to the Party for Animals and to the SGP. That is why I would ask them to reconsider whether they should reject this proposal. I understand from Mrs Teunissen's point of view that she says that it is not ambitious enough. If you were to say yes to this law, you could also join Mrs Mulder and Mr Jetten to raise the targets so that there is even more ambition at European level. It does not oblige you to take a minimum position. No, you're just getting closer to taking them in your opinion. Se SGP started in her contribution this morning on stewardship and good paternity. Mr Schalk said it is necessary and so is the other. I'd like to ask you to choose the stewardship next week, Mr. Schalk. I think that is best suited to your tradition. I have little illusion that we are getting the PVV over the line, but I still have one comment. You have said a few times today that nuclear power and thorium are the future. Thorium is definitely still in an early stage. I hear you're a physicist, Mr. Van Strien. Then you will also know that this technique has been stopped in the United States because it could not serve as an arms race. It's a very interesting science, though. I fully agree with you on that. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, the example in England. There was no private company that wanted to build a nuclear power plant. There has been a great deal of support for this, and you are not directly in favour of it. Then they have been working for twelve years and this project is not able to supply energy for that ordinary Henk and Ingrid at a normal cost. A great deal of funding is needed there too. Moreover, we still have the problem that we still have nothing going on after 12 years. So I do not think it would be wise to mention that as a shining example. Thanks again to the initiators. I also found it extremely beautiful and beautiful to get to know Mr Klaver today as a pragmatist. I am also convinced that the role of Parliament on the road proposed by the initiators and the cabinet is actually much stronger than I initially thought. That's just crystallized. The climate day, the fourth Thursday in October, is another addition which forces us to debate it in full. In short, time for action, time to give citizens fair information and take them with them, time to share costs fairly and, above all, to make many opportunities out of innovations that this country has always brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u159	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for answering the questions of the Christian Union Group. I would also like to thank the official staff. We are looking back on an intensive debate today. And you should, because this debate is about something. It's about the future of the Earth, of our planet, and how we have to relate to climate change. It's also about our climate ambitions. It is also a debate with a whole new generation of young politicians. I also find that very inspiring and fantastic to see. In itself, I find that very hopeful. By the way, you can all subscribe to that definition of young generation; I am very easy to do. The debate has also shown that we have a reasonable political consensus in the Netherlands on those quantitative reduction targets for CO emissions over the next three decades. That is also what I think the profit of today's debate on this important initiative law reflects collective commitment. It is important to be able to see that with each other. At the same time, of course, the debate also shows that the consensus on measures to achieve these objectives is significantly less. But several speakers have also indicated that we still have a lot of work to do to include everyone in that story. As far as the measures themselves are concerned, the debate is much less polished and loving, especially in society. I had a rather heavy metaphor for it in the first place, namely that it sometimes resembles a small cultural war. At the same time, such a heavy metaphor takes the view of the common ground. I think there is. Just think of the large migratory flows that will be triggered by failing climate policies. It must be possible to bind parties from the left and the right. Our friends and friends of the PVV should be able to recognize themselves in this. The intensity of this climate debate may not be surprising either. It is of course also about our lifestyle, about very fundamental economic and ecological values. These values will be fully met in the forthcoming debates on climate action. This also applies to the macro- and micro-economic consequences. We've had a lot of debates on that. The Minister has just shared a very long reasoning on that point with us. We ourselves think about the same line. Macroeconomic is to do so. If we look at the PBL estimates, this can be done. I have hesitated for a moment, it is a bit later in the evening, but it is in the order of the abolition of the dividend tax. Who else knows her? Macroeconomic can then be done, but that does not mean that we should not be aware of microeconomic consequences. Of course, they can be very large. There really must dominate the distribution standard; at first I mentioned climate ethics, the norm of reasonableness and justice. We have started to think a little differently about the role of Parliament, partly thanks to Mr Pijlman's speech, which I found very enlightening. He made the analogy with the HOOP, the higher education plan. The Minister and the initiators have gone into this, so I see it differently now. I also think that Parliament, here and on the other side, within the format that has been offered, can achieve its full potential. We can follow our traditional tasks there, especially when it comes to implementing the plan in concrete laws. There we have our role to play, as we play here every week when it comes to laws. We have to assess them on our own criteria of legality, feasibility and enforcement. I see that story much more clearly than at the beginning of the debate. The initiators and the minister convinced us. Thank you for that. There's a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u161	Are you thinking about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u162	Yeah, I'm definitely gonna do that. A question has not been answered. Since this is a unique policy experiment, we would very much like this to be comprehensively and continuously monitored and evaluated, precisely on the question of what the failure and success factors are in achieving or not realising the reduction targets. I'm rounding up. The intensity of the climate will not diminish, but hopefully the debate will be more structured by this law and we have given long-term thinking a place in the climate debate. After all, the mission is not small: it is about the coolness of creation. That being said, it may be worth something to us too. The Christian Union Group strongly supports the Climate Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I would also like to thank the authors and the Minister for the fine answers and the nice conversation we had with each other so far; we are not quite finished talking, of course. I would like to add my congratulations to Mr Klaver, who reported that he had a son ten days ago. I think that's a good reason to give him a round of applause. Am I really the only one who thinks that's important? I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u165	He takes it with him and does the night hours. I'm gonna be surprised. All right, back to my input. I hear here next to me talking about diapers and so on, so it's gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u166	I was wondering if maybe he was gonna use fabric instead of paper diapers for the baby.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u167	Instead of diapers, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u168	And then wash them by hand, huh? Not in the washing machine, but just rinse by hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u169	Let me write this down as a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u170	Ah, he's being noted. Madam President, shall we begin with my time? I need to speak very quickly now. Mr Klaver has indicated that what is now there is actually not legally enforceable. It may only be politically enforceable. That means that any coalition agreement can actually make a new choice in this. This could mean that the Climate Act would be adopted without guarantees. That's quite a risk. This was reinforced by what Mr Jetten told us, namely that there will be a climate note next on climate day, the fourth Thursday of October. I checked it out, but fortunately it's just not an autumn holiday anymore, otherwise nobody listens at all. Then there will be climate plans, re-framed for five years. There is still a little uncertainty as to whether or not the climate agreement will be included, but I think that Mr Jetten is going to give me some clarification on this. That climate plan finally gets under the real plans and then we know what it costs. Those costs are one aspect that I have explicitly mentioned. A few examples have been mentioned, including those of the ambulance's driving times. I didn't think that was the strongest example, but perhaps you've just been working on it. We've got 15 minutes of driving time now. I am sure that if we decide with each other or if it is decided in the House of Representatives that that should be ten minutes, there should simply be an approach and a cost. We'll see if there's proper cover and we'll make some, and we won't do all of that right now. My question, which has not actually been answered by the proposers, is: can the parliament throw the people into an uncertain adventure? Of course, I have also asked the Minister whether the Minister for Finance thinks that a law with targets without proper coverage can be taken away. I've heard from the Minister that he's sensed some annoyance with me. Of course, that must not happen at all. If there was annoyance, I'll take it all away. Maybe I radiated something wrong. Well, that was mostly surprise then. Madam President. Half a percent is about 4 billion. I have just turned that around: that would be €235 per capita per year. Now I have a family with five children. That means €1,175. I'm actually really glad that four of them are happily married, so I'm still a bit uncomfortable. But if that's how you're gonna convert it, that's a lot of money a year. I'm in my last second, Madam Speaker. I was challenged for a moment by Mr Pijlman, who asked me a question about stewardship. It is very unfortunate that he has run away, because I had just written an example of biblical stewardship. I would have loved to have given it to him. In Luke 14, verse 28, write it down! It says: "Who of you who wants to build a tower does not sit down first and overcharge the costs, whether he also has what to finish it?" Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u171	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. To satisfy you, I stopped the clock at some point and let you pass for half a minute. You've got everything you wanted. Then we'll go to the next speaker. That's Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u172	Mr. Chairman. We also express our gratitude for all the answers given. We are not going to repeat anything in this second period. I think that over the next few years the issues will be discussed enough to allow further discussion of all the variants. If the plans in 20 years' time, so in 2050, have not become quite what they were, then I agree with Mr Ester, who said that we are dealing here with a young generation of politicians. I think the early fifties Jetten and Klaver could then develop the plans again in 2050. I think there's an accent difference here and there. I noticed, for example, the great lust Mr Klaver showed for the rules of the game. We of 50PLUS are actually more of the goals, but that aside. I found Mr Klaver's answer on predictability very honest. He said you have to prepare the people and be honest. That reminded me of the passage from my first term in which it was about the elderly and in which I called on him not to take the escape route of "we do not fill in things." I pointed out that the elderly had no indexes, that they had been cut, that there were discounts again in the coming years and that they had a certain purchasing power. This group also has a short depreciation period and perhaps a short experience of the changes that need to be made. My question was, I hope, that there will be a clear answer to that in the second instance: do we not think that proper compensation arrangements should be guarded for this group? Finally. We have pointed out in the first instance that we have such a fine definition of discount rates, which should make it possible to compare the annual costs of various project variants. We have found that the discount rate in the calculation of development costs in the Climate Act is different from the discount rate used by the same government in pensions. That's not right. It seems as if we are weighing things in different ways, but not on the same scale. It is actually a kind of VAR: we should never look at goals that we make, but we should look at goals that others make. This difference just can't be. That is why I have tabled a motion on behalf of a number of political groups. We know that a number of other groups would like to take a look at this. We hope that we will have a good vote on this next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u173	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u174	No, the motion. Mr Nagel, Mr Reuten, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government assumes a discount rate (calculation rate) of approximately 1.5% for future pension liabilities;]] [[noting that the Plan Bureau for the Environment (PBL) assumes a discount rate of 3% in the calculation of climate investment;]] [[Whereas in the General Court's glossary, the discount rate is defined as follows: "The discount rate is a factor to ensure that series with annual costs of various project variants are made comparable';]] [[calls on the government to apply consistently either the approximately 1.5% or the 3% in the calculation of pensions and climate measures in both cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u175	Oh, the motion! Excuse me. It's all complicated, but I'm fine. It's all good. 'Cause you're running away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the initiators for the comprehensive answers. That has led to a nice debate. The Minister said in his introduction: I'm going to keep it a little concise. That also means that he didn't answer some of the questions I asked. I don't know if that was conscious, but I'll come back to that. I think the Minister also deserves a compliment: he can actually get into the theatre, because somehow he can place things here with some indignation, we just noticed. It's a pleasure to watch it. I have three questions for the Minister, because he won't get away with not answering them. I would also like to make two further commitments that I have heard. And finally, I have one more appeal to the initiators. A question to the Minister. We have asked for legal systems that could interfere with the climate law. We have referred to state aid rules, competition rules or possible scope for regional authorities in national legislation. I would like another reflection from the Minister on that question. The initiators then indicated that they consider it important that this be included in the first climate plan. I'd like to hear from the Minister that he thinks that's a good plan. The second question to the Minister was about employment. Can he give us a tip of the veil on the employment plans that might be included in the climate plan? The first question is: are they coming in and can he tell us anything about it? The last question to the Minister is the following. In the coming period, many parties are once again discussing climate change measures. They eventually lead to a plan that is also submitted to the Chamber. We have asked another question about the transparency and weighting of interests. So the question is whether we can respond to that. The second commitment, which I would like to make just a little more explicit, concerns the focus on citizen participation in the climate plan. I have heard the initiators say about this: it is our intention to explain in the climate plan how we are going to give this form and content; it is more than just a viewing procedure. I would also like to get a comment on that. Finally, I heard the Minister say that innovation is primarily conceived at the climate tables and less in the Chamber. That is a fine appeal to the initiators to address the opinion of the Council of State on 'no non-binding attitude of the States-General', in contrast to what the Minister claims, perhaps only once innovatively and to come up with a good plan for that. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u177	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also thanks from GroenLinks to the initiators for the clear and comprehensive answer. After the compliments Mr Wiebes has received, I do not know what else I can add. I understand he can get into the theater because it's especially nice to look at him. In addition, I understand that he is also counted as a new generation of young, promising politicians. That too is a compliment that you can put in your pocket. I had to think of my party colleague Bram van Ojik, who, in my opinion, was declared politically talented far after his 50th birthday. Who knows what's ahead of this minister. On one subject that I raised in the first term, I would like to have some further answers. This is about what is being said about the period between now and 2030. The objective is an objective and is not a fixed target such as that for 2050. The specific question I asked is about the KEV. "KEV" is apparently the abbreviation I need to use: the climate and energy exploration. Part of this is to identify the developments and measures that have contributed to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. As the initiators themselves have said, the added value of independent parties who indicate that we are not on track for goals, is that this contributes to the effectiveness of those goals. It is said throughout the discussion that, somewhere between now and 2030, we can see that the goal is not feasible, despite a real effort. I wonder, then, whether it is up to the Planning Bureau to determine whether or not a real effort has been made and whether or not the objective is feasible. Or is that, in the final analysis, a political judgement that is expected? In particular, could this not put the Planning Office in an uncomfortable position when it should assess the extent to which the effort has been made and whether it has contributed to the reduction of greenhouse gases or not? I recognised what Mr Ester said about parliamentary involvement in both climate plan and climate note. I also recognised in the wide-ranging discussion we had on the right of assent that it would or would not be part of. I went into this debate with a slightly different idea, but I found the arguments of the two initiators clear. I think that in the chosen construction parliamentary involvement and influence have taken shape in a good way. I would add that when the word 'rules' is mentioned, it is always tempting to get into all kinds of football metaphors. Mr Nagel did the same. I got the feeling that maybe that has something to do with a championship that has recently been celebrated, which you finally say: rules in football are at least that you play with eleven people on both sides, that there is an referee, that there is a field of a certain size, which by the way may vary per stadium, and that a race takes two times 45 minutes. But for the footballers in question and also for the spectators it is nice to know a little more about what the interaction will mean in those 90 minutes afterwards. I think that the proof of the pudding and the big challenge is whether the Climate Act as it stands now contains more than the rules "we have eleven players on both sides, 90 minutes and then you figure it out." To what extent can the game rules in the Climate Act guide and to what extent can they provide sufficient instruments for parliament and government, as well as for all other social stakeholders, in the event of conflicts and conflicts of interest? There will undoubtedly be, because we all have different ideas on how to achieve that goal by 2050. Do the game rules in the Climate Act provide for this? We can wholeheartedly support all the calls made to evaluate this new way of working. Then I come to the final point of substance that I want to make. This follows on from what Mrs Fiers just said about civic participation. I am also making it in the light of the debate we have had here on social polarisation. One of the things that we have learned, not so much in civic participation on this subject, but more broadly, is that people who initially seem to think quite contrary about something, can get much closer if you choose a form where there is deliberation and dialogue instead of a debate in which the contradictions are automatically triggered. The form of participation chosen in this proposal is still quite classic, partly top-down and driven by the government. You can look for ways in which the social dialogue on this huge issue can be shaped in a different way, both national and decentralised. The idea that, in part, the Remkes Committee's report also highlights is to reduce the gap between citizens and politics in such a way that we do not feel that we are using citizens as a tool to implement our policies but are giving them responsibilities. That would be a very good challenge to help climate change in society, but also to rid the political debate of too much polarisation and misconception. Finally, in view of next week, too, I would like to say that I am very much considering giving my group a positive opinion on this bill. Anyway, I have another week to think about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u179	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators for their answers in the first term. I didn't ask the Minister, but I like his presence. As I pointed out in my first term, the importance of this bill is that it sets out the climate objectives and that it also contains procedures for achieving them. Both are important signals for society, no more and no less. That would be a reason to vote in favour of the bill. I am a little shocked by what Mr Jetten said in the first term when it came to the objectives of the legislative proposal in an international context. They turned out to be quite flexible. I thought, and many with me, that the objectives up to 2050 are in any case tough. Until 2030 it's something else, but those for 2050 are tough. Mr Jetten's impression is that the climate plans can vary a bit and can be adjusted downwards if you look at the international context. I think it is very important for the Acts that Mr Jetten says either 'that's the way it is, and then I think: what is the first chapter of the bill for? Or says he didn't express himself very well. If the latter is indeed the case, I think it is important for the Acts that there should be a correction on this point. As I have already said, my main objection is to the proposal which, according to Article 5, only the Minister or the Minister. the government adopts a climate plan and not the government and the States-General jointly. This is an objection given the long-term impact of the climate plan. They are so far-reaching that I believe they should be carried by government and parliament. Yes, it's about plans, but very far-reaching plans. They may be more far-reaching than annual budgetary plans. It is also a matter of principle, but the Constitution considers it important enough to have them adopted by government and parliament. I believe that the Constitution did not foresee that initiators from 2018 and 2019 would invent ten or five-year plans from the present far-reaching scope. Against this background, I see the lack of co-determination of climate plans by Parliament in Article 5 as a gap in the legislative proposal. Mr Jetten first stated that the way in which it has now been designed, that it is only determined by the government, is a choice. That it is a choice, I think is an important point. That choice could have been different in principle. I think that is an important observation. When I see how it has been designed, I think that is a rather shaky path, because these climate plans cannot be amended. Only two options are open to the Chambers, including a motion to amend them. Then the Minister can discourage them, or possibly not dissuade them, but still not implement them. Then the only thing left is a motion of censure. In Dutch relations this is particularly difficult for coalition parties. The question is whether coalition parties want to accept this consequence as a result of a climate plan. The simple way of possible amendment is thus set aside by the current design. And that makes the whole procedure shaky. How does my group deal with that? How do we deal with the argument of the importance of the objectives, which I would like to hear from Mr Jetten later on, with the importance of these signals for society and with the procedural problem of establishing the climate plan? I'll do that by filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Reuten, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nagel, Mr Gerkens and Mr Overbeek proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal requires the adoption of a "climate plan";]] [[Whereas the climate plan has, or may have, long-term social consequences;]] [[considers that these effects are, or may be, such that the climate plan should be established jointly by the Government and the States-General;]] [[asks the initiators, after the present law has been adopted, whether or not to take the joint initiative Article 5 of the law or not. amend the bill in such a way that the climate plan is not merely "transferred" to the two Chambers of the States General but also requires their approval,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u181	Okay, so what am I going to advise my group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u182	Mr. Schalk would like to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u183	It's an enlightening question. Does this actually mean a novelle, but in the long run?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u184	That is what I wanted to explain. No, it doesn't mean that. Because what am I going to advise my group? We can vote in favour of this bill. But I ask the initiators to take the follow-up initiative after the legislative proposal has been accepted, let us assume that it will be accepted next week. So we vote on the law. The bill is accepted. Then I ask the initiators to take the follow-up initiative to change that one article 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u185	You're actually asking for some kind of repair law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u186	Exactly, yeah. Well, that's it. My group awaits the answers of the initiators and we will decide on our final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u187	Thank you, Mr. Reuten. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u188	Madam President, thank you very much. I too begin by thanking Mr Klaver, Mr Jetten and Mr Wiebes for their detailed answer and for their open attitude. I would, of course, like to congratulate Mr Klaver. All I can say to him is, three sons is the best thing there is. The climate doesn't wait for us; I told you once. And to think, we're only talking about half the story here, about mitigation, about the energy transition. The other half is adaptation, adapting our country to climate change, which, of course, has already begun. If we are not successful on the path of mitigation, we need thousands of Hansje Brinkers, or a lot more waterboards, to maintain that 3,800 kilometers of primary barrier well. This is not about content, it is about rules of the game and a roadmap based on a shared objective, that of Paris. My group's reaction is to get to work. And then there are words like: predictability, reckonable policies through the climate note, the link to the fiscal cycle, a spot on the horizon and investment security. The VVD Group has asked a number of questions about this. Beautiful words, you can't be against them, but you can't grab them. So this also applies: get to work. The VVD Group will closely monitor these points as criteria when assessing the climate plans. The problem of a lot of energy policy in the past was the lack of consistency, with constantly changing regulations. This law offers prospects for improvement on that point. The members of my group can see that clearly. It has often been about the climate plan, its feasibility and affordability. There's a lot coming in. We can take technological developments with us. I am looking at Mr Van Strien, but he is no longer in the Chamber. Targeted legislation, subsidy schemes, administrative agreements and participation are also being addressed. Then the question arises: couldn't this have been done through a covenant? We believe that this question may be yes and no, but a law has been chosen. The crucial question, which we have also raised a number of times in the written rounds, is: are we, as a parliament, being put out of play? My group has been somewhat reassured by the discussion that has been held on this subject, especially by Mr Wiebes in concluding that parliamentary involvement has been secured. He explained that, too. Madam President, I'm finishing up. Of course, we are waiting for the second term of the initiators and the minister with interest, but above all we are waiting for the climate agreement with great interest, because then we can talk about its content again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister very much for the comprehensive response in the first term. I welcome the fact that the response stressed that a climate law would allow greater involvement of the First and Second Chambers in climate policy, but my group regrets that Mr Klaver's search for majorities took place particularly in those parties that think very differently about climate problems than Mr Klaver's party. May I just remind you that the first request for an effective climate law was submitted in 2015 by the Party for Animals and GroenLinks in the Thieme/Klaver motion? Mr Klaver then failed to consult with the Animal Party in order to take part in a new proposal. So it is also a matter of choosing good allies to get to the fine flywheel instead of going straight for the compromise. The legislative proposal is essentially an anchoring of a process, but it needs to be anchored in a way that does what is necessary for the climate and not only achieves what is feasible or for which there is broad support. Because you can also create support. Mr Pijlman asked my party to move more towards the reasonable middle. I would like to add my voice to Mr Wiebes's words to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u191	That's definitely a mistake. Otherwise, you will continue with that reasoning. I said that when you take part in this, you will have enough room to bring forward your own further points of view, with others who are behind the table too, and thus strengthen the whole law and everything that happens afterwards. I understand your point of view very well, but I do not understand why you are taking the consequence of being against this law. I regret that, because it is also very important to the general public that the Party for Animals participates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u192	Then I would say to Mr Pijlman that it is very dependent on majorities if you eventually get plans in this law. I don't want to anticipate something that isn't there. This law is ahead of us. I see objectives here, 95% reduction in 2050, which are not sufficient to comply with the Paris Agreement. Then I see something like: join in, it is this proposal that is before us, join in with what is reasonable, the reasonable middle. That brings me to a quiz question for Mr Wiebes. He says it very nicely: we are dealing with a landscape of doomthinkers, the reasonable middle and climate explorers. He's painted it a lot better than I do now. Then my question is: does he join the IPCC climate scientists who conclude that limiting the warming to 1.5°C leads to significantly less risks and impact of warming, under that doom think category? And does he join Sir David Attenborough, the famous BBC presenter, who, with his new documentary "Climate Change - The Facts," says the alarm clock about the rapid disappearance of species and complete ecosystems, partly due to climate change, also under that doom think category? I think it is essential that the view on what the reasonable middle is gets an adjustment. That leaves me with one question. I've already set it in the first term. That question concerns Article 4 of the Paris Agreement. It states that rich industrialised countries will take the lead in reducing CO as quickly and as far as possible. My question to the initiators is: how did you include this assignment in the current Climate Act? So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u193	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u194	Madam President, thank you. The CDA Group also congratulated Mr Klaver on the birth of his third son. Clover four is now complete, you might say. That's lucky, four clovers. Happy birthday! We welcomed the way in which the initiators outlined their dilemmas this afternoon. Dilemmas in terms of: we would have liked to do more or we would have wanted to do something else, but this is the compromise that has been rolled out. In short, that openness and that honesty adorn the initiators. At the same time, of course, this also leads to a question. They would have liked to bring in more. This afternoon it came along: the 55% limit, not as a target, but as a hard target. The emission budget was also mentioned. My question to the initiators is: is there any commitment to the agreements that have now been made? It was also about providing stability and predictability in the core. So I could well imagine that the initiators have agreed on this between themselves, so that they will not come up with any new plans at a later date. For that would be contrary to the law's desire for stability and predictability. In the direction of Mr Jetten, too, I would like to express my appreciation of what he has said, especially in relation to the climate plan. We have discussed this in detail. We have asked a large number of questions, particularly about the position of this Chamber in relation to the climate plan. I believe that Mr Jetten and, secondly, the Minister have been clear about this. Mr Jetten was clear when he said: 'If motions are tabled and they are adopted, there will be consequences. That's what we're assuming." I also tasted that from the Minister's side, so in that sense I think our request to see if the amending motion could possibly also be an option... I am glad to hear that it is indeed an instrument that exists. Otherwise, I wouldn't have done my own homework right, either, I guess. But that commitment by the Minister and also by the interpretation of the initiators makes it quite clear that when the Chamber makes a ruling, it should in principle be so that the Cabinet adheres to it. Finally, Madam President, a number of questions. The Minister says: I do not deal with the issue of CO and its pricing. The Minister says: I am not going into Amsterdam. In my view, Secretary of State Van Veldhoven did so on behalf of the cabinet, but that aside. The Minister focused on affordability and thus on the feasibility of what could result from the Climate Act. He has told us here tonight that the 0.5%, rising to 0.6% in 2030, will be specific to households. I think it is right to ask the Minister what was included in those 0.6%: what type of costs? I haven't heard from the minister about the cost to business. Is that in that range of 0.5% to 0.6%? Or should we say otherwise? And if so, in my opinion, the Minister has given an implicit opinion on some of the plans relating to the level of a CO tax. Madam President. Feasibility and affordability are two key criteria for the CDA Group. The Secretary of State has been ready to do so. We therefore have the right to stick to those percentages. Then there's the international component. I've heard something about that sideways. Mr Jetten even talked at some point about scaling up, which I think Mr Reuten heard correctly. Well, that could go a different way, but let me just say that that has everything to do with that international component. I hope I understood that correctly. The Minister would have liked to speak out in those terms, if I had understood him correctly. In short, the CDA Group welcomes the way in which this debate has been conducted and the clarification given by both the initiators and the Minister. We will not file any motions or other motions. We will report to our group on what has been exchanged here. I have already briefly expressed my opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u195	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u196	Mr. Chairman. Like almost everyone else, I have listened with great pleasure to the two representatives of the proposers and to the minister. To the proposers for their cautious and respectful treatment and to the minister for his clear statements, as we are used to his. In my opinion, there was a bit of a difference in atmosphere between the two inserts. In the case of the proposers, however, the emphasis was a little on the problem we are dealing with. Mr Klaver started with the statement: we started with this law to provide certainty, because there is a lot of uncertainty. How much is it? Who's gonna pay for that? And how do we make decisions? We wanted to do something about that. The Minister's emphasis was very different. He said that this doesn't cost too much and gives us a lot: a comfortable living environment and if we are careful, we also make a lot of money from it. There was quite a difference in atmosphere. And both of them, I think, are right, although I fear that for the time being we will be faced with questions such as: what solutions should we take? How do we deal with the costs? How do we distribute that to everyone in a fair and reasonable way? Having said that, the question remains what this law actually brings us. This law does not bring much, because no solutions are presented and no choices made. Without this law there would also be climate plans that deal with them. Whoever says this isn't entirely wrong. On the other hand, if representatives from eight parties come up with this law and this law is passed by a large majority by the Second and First Chambers, this means that the political will to work on climate change is the political will, because the politics really think it is important. That seems to me to be a sensible statement which offers hope for a real outcome for the further process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u197	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I understand that the Minister in particular needs a few minutes. You don't need to? Neither did Mr. Klaver and Mr. Jetten? You have the opportunity to answer directly? Yeah? Okay, so now we're talking to the initiators. I give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u198	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank your Chamber for this extremely pleasant debate. I hope this is a harbinger for many more debates on how to tackle climate change. I am also pleased that you have seen my pragmatic side. I think the Netherlands might need some pragmatic idealism, a nice combination of those two. We have dealt with all aspects of climate policy around here. I have said a few times that it is about the climate law and not about the other climate plans. However, I believe that we have been able to have a broad debate on climate change. Maybe we haven't been able to get to the bottom of everything and not discuss all the plans that are or aren't there, but it's nice to be able to talk about them in this way. It has been a long time about the role of parliament. I believe it was Mr Ester who said that our ambition must be far enough. In fact, we are all saying that, at least in this Chamber, I feel that we now feel responsible for that further approach to climate change. We do not just lay that down with the cabinet, but also have our own steps to take. I shall go into this further when I comment on the motion that has been tabled on this point. Mr Ester also mentioned the question of how to evaluate whether the policy has been effective. There are two ways to do that. First of all, this is the task of the Planning Office for the Environment. That should see if the measures that have been devised also produce what the idea was: does it work? That's how policy works. I think we ourselves have a responsibility to see how we, as States-General, have understood our task: does that really work? On behalf of the initiators, I would like to say that we will continue to seek contact with your Chamber in order to evaluate whether the Climate Act, if adopted, works in the way we want and whether the involvement of the Chambers is sufficiently secured. That would, to be quite honest, also be my reaction to the motion submitted (34534, letter I). It's about a change in the bill. In fact, it is said: change this bill again once it has been passed. I am not going to give a positive opinion on that, and I regret that. I do not think it is appropriate to reject a motion in the spirit of the debate. That makes it seem as if there is a huge difference of opinion and I do not think that is the case. I hope that the SP Group will accept the outstretched hand when I say that, as far as I am concerned, in the shortest possible time, we shall be able to meet again after a year's work to see what that year has been like and how the involvement of the Chambers has taken place. At that point, we can then see how we can strengthen this and whether adjustments may still need to be made. I hope that outstretched hand is taken. I think that fits well with the nature of the debate we have had today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u199	I had understood at first that the objection is mainly that there are parts that you cannot decide about, but it is a habit or at least an idea. I am thinking, for example, of the Tax Plan that parts can be separated? We've had that with the Hills Act and the dividend tax. There was a famous senator, Hoekstra, who gave examples of this. There's a mode for that, isn't there? If we want to involve the people who need direct participation, we can find a way of doing so. We'll figure it out. In this sense, we have signed our signatures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u200	If I understand Mr Nagel correctly, he says: look closely at parts of such a climate plan; you should be able to vote on it. That is precisely the practice, because parts of that climate plan come in the Lower House and the Upper House and can then be voted on. That's what's provided for. The resulting legislation will have to be guided by Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u201	Do I understand the initiators now? Do they say, in the words of the spokesperson, that the bill, when it is made law, will be reviewed after a year and, if necessary, implemented in the motion? If necessary, following the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u202	I am not going to anticipate what we should do, because I do not know what is coming out of such an evaluation, but let us not exclude anything from the things that need to be done, because this legal technique is neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u203	If things are different from what you think now, could it be that you are still going to carry out the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u204	Well, no. I'm sticking to the words I've chosen. I think we're just in agreement. I am not going to anticipate the amendment of a law which we are firmly defending here, and I am not going to say now: in a year's time, we are going to amend it in this way. I am trying to tell you that the involvement of the Chambers and the way in which we have talked about this is also a concern for the authors, and not just a concern for concern, because we want to put it away as strongly as possible. I think that's a joint responsibility. So let us shape that together. After a year, we look at how to do this better and then we take the measures that need to be taken. But to say right now, that's that motion... Actually, this is my proposal. It is entirely up to you, but if we can reach out to each other on this, then this motion may not be necessary. But that's your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u205	I understand. But the figure of an evaluation of a law isn't unusual, is it? As a result of an evaluation, a law is often revised, isn't it? Is that how it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u206	Sure. I think I just said that. We are not going to evaluate the whole law after a year. Judging a law after a year doesn't seem right to me, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u207	No, it was about that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u208	It was really about the involvement of the Chambers. I believe that we have understood each other well and that this is not going to cause any problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u209	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u210	I enjoyed the input of the PVV. That may sound a bit strange, because I totally disagree with you, but the way in which you express your views is admirable. We really need to talk about this logging again, because that is where we should reach out to each other. But that's not what this bill was about. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has indicated that it is an enormous force if eight parties come together in this way and the differences can be set aside. The OSF group also mentioned this, and I think that is the great added value of the legislative proposal that is now before us. The SGP still asked about the enforceability. Is it new that it is not enforceable, or is it suddenly admitted? No, that was in the pleading, which was in the answer to the questions of the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. It is enforceable that these eight parties support this bill and together have tabled it. It's in him that we say: these are the goals, this is the trajectory that we're going to work along. The CDA asked what is now the commitment of the parties sitting here. We've talked about that a lot. That commitment is a big one, and that requires self-control on both sides. We say: this law is now what it is, let us keep it that way for the time being, and if we want to change it, it is in consensus with each other. For example, we have agreed that the objective can be raised if we want to take a step further in Europe. So it was poured into concrete? No, but the competition element of more or less does not benefit the Netherlands. Then you get yo-yo policy. Then I'm sure no one gets what he wants. You know how politicians are. This is the intention that we all have and I hope we will hold on to it for a very long time. That's what I can give you. The group of 50PLUS has asked if we would like further attention to be paid to the group of older people. I think that's right. In all the plans that are coming, there will also be the purchasing power figures for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From the Lower House we will also look into this ourselves, because you are right to say that this is a vulnerable group. That is not the case with all of them, but certainly with some of them, and that deserves our attention. I think we should almost talk about a generational pact when it comes to climate change. If we ask the older generation to take the steps that are now needed to keep the planet viable for future generations, then those future generations must also consider how the lives of those older people are also viable and affordable today and tomorrow. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asked who ultimately assesses whether it is sufficient. We shouldn't put that in a planning agency. A planning agency has to deliver the facts. Ultimately, on the basis of these facts, we must determine whether we think that is sufficient or not. What I sincerely hope, especially in this climate debate, is that we can agree on the facts. We will differ in the interpretation of the facts, but I hope the facts are the same. This gives a great responsibility to the Planning Office for the Environment to ensure that they are delivered at the right time and correctly. I'm joining the Party for Animals. Mrs Teunissen, if I have grieved your party in any way because I have not sought sufficient cooperation at first, I am sorry. You said, "Maybe you should have looked at other places for majorities." Now I'm going to remind myself of a time that I didn't necessarily find the best time in my political career. That was the time when we had four seats. That was the time when we started the Climate Act. That was also the time when the Party for the Animals had two seats, I believe. Now I do not want to measure the importance of a party to the number of seats, because the quality of the work done is often very high, especially from small groups. But when I came up with the idea to come up with a climate law, I looked at what kind of party we could work with to ensure that the chances of success are as great as possible. This resulted in cooperation with the Labour Party. That happened for two reasons. They had a lot of seats back then, and it was a coalition party. I wanted the cooperation between coalition and opposition. That would be a good symbol, a good signal to show how broad we want to work together. As wrong as I have been at the beginning or as wrong as I have treated your party, I hope it does not become personal, that we can get past that personal and that the Party for Animals is ultimately prepared to support this law. I understand you're saying it's not enough, but nothing will be lost if you do support this law. I understand that you will always strive for more. We'll do the same. What I like, and I honestly did not expect that, is that I have also seen on the side of this table where Mrs Yesilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Geleijne and Mr Wiebes are sitting, that in fact all parties are looking for much higher ambitions. That's what I've become convinced of. I hope that you will agree, that at least my actions will not stand in the way of that and that you will only give a substantive assessment of this law. You had another answer to the question about Article 4 of the Paris Agreement. You referred to paragraph 11, I think. In any case, it is about the task, the responsibility, that the Western countries and developed countries have to take additional steps and also the freedom they have to do top-up adjustments. There are two answers to that. First of all, it was agreed in the Paris System that every five years the IPCC will update and that these new scientific insights can lead to an adjustment of the objectives. If that leads to a new agreement and is ratified by both chambers, then there is a new reality. Secondly, we are already in the process of raising the targets by seeking support in Europe for the 55%. That is the way in which Article 4 of the Paris Agreement is implemented. This is not so much in the law as in that it results from it and has an effect on this law. I believe that at least I have answered all the questions I have asked. I would like to conclude with what the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has said. It's time to get to work. I'm so looking forward to that. That will generate a lot of strong debates and differences of opinion, but I hope in the end that in the shortest possible time we will be able to come up with an approach in the jointness we have shown today that will really help us tackle climate change and actually achieve the objectives we set ourselves in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u211	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u212	Thank you, Mr President. There are two more questions I will answer and one comment I would like to make, but if you will allow me, I would like to begin with a personal comment. I started here at the Binnenhof about ten years ago as an intern-policy officer of the Eerste Kamergroup of D66, then consisting of two senators, namely Mr Hans Engels and Mr Gerard Schouw. They worked intensively with the OSF, which was also manned by Mr Ten Hoeve. I thought it was just a special sensation that I started ten years ago as an intern and learned the tricks of the profession from Mr Ten Hoeve, among others, and that I may now be present at one of his last debates as a senator. Also compliments for his contribution to this Climate Act. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to your Chamber for an extremely interesting debate, especially on the part on which I was given the opportunity to answer on behalf of the initiators, namely what role the climate plan has and what role we can play as both Chambers. I think we have strengthened both sides that we believe that we should be closely involved as both Chambers and that we should also take direction when we consider it necessary. As Mr Klaver has just pointed out, we, as initiators of this Climate Act, will also take the initiative to seek cooperation with your Chamber, even after the election of a new First Chamber, to see how these two standing Chambers can further elaborate on this. In any case, we will take the first initiative on our part. Mr. Chairman. I would have had two more questions in the second term. First of all, Mr Schalk. He had already asked me in the first period how the climate agreement that is now being discussed will eventually land in that climate plan. I do not think I have responded sufficiently to that in the first term. What is the final climate agreement? That is a semantic discussion that we also have very often in the Lower House. What I imagine is this. There have been a number of climate tables. They have produced a draft climate agreement. The cabinet has already responded to this. Work is now under way on a definitive cabinet juice valuation. I assume that the final government's Juice will take on board a large part of the proposals from the climate tables, but that the cabinet will certainly also make its own adjustments and amendments to them. We will finally discuss this with the cabinet as both chambers. The final result that comes from this cabinet response plus the treatment in both chambers seems to me to be a very important basis for the climate plan. This will, of course, include the current energy agreement and the current climate policy resulting from previous government agreements. So it is not the case that the climate agreement will be taken on board 100% one-on-one in the climate plan. I fully agree with Mr Schalk that this is probably not going to happen, because the political primacy ultimately lies with the Chambers and the Cabinet. That's how I wanted to answer him in the first place. I hope that will reassure him. I can see him nodding yes. Mr. Chairman. Then I startled Mr Reuten in replying in the first term. That was absolutely not my intention. As far as I am concerned, the objectives set out in this climate law are very clear. We have a 2030 target, but we have a hard target for 2050 when it comes to CO reduction and 100% CO-neutral energy production. As initiators, we have included a number of aspects in the Climate Action Plan and the Climate Note, which we consider important for the Cabinet to outline developments in this area. It concerns, for example, technological developments, on which I also had an exchange of views with, among other things, the PVV Group. But with this Climate Act, we also ask the Cabinet to reflect on international developments, worldwide but also European, every year, which could have an impact on Dutch climate policy. We are not doing this to adjust our own ambitions, but because this outline of international developments can help us to get out of the polarization of the debate and to understand what the rest of the world and the rest of Europe are doing in terms of climate policy and how we should put Dutch efforts into that regard. I believe that this will help us to include everyone in the Netherlands who is sometimes concerned about climate policy, who feels that it is going too far or that it is not going far enough at all, as others in this Chamber say. So it is a tool to be able to have that debate with each other and also to be able to control the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u213	Thank you. I'm happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u214	Okay. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u215	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u216	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the question of the Christian Union, Mr Ester. He asked about the evaluation and the monitoring. His speech gave me the strong impression that he was not concerned with the evaluation and monitoring of this law but, within the framework of this law, about climate policy. Of course, that is what this law regulates in the sense that we talk about it once a year. But I think I can also see from Mr Ester's speech that he does not mean numerical progress or income effects, but that he refers to underlying sociology, the lessons learned, the development of the basis of support, and so on. I think it is good to return to this during the first discussion and to refine our discussions in this area as we go along. We will then gradually see what needs to be discussed, which will enrich the discussion. It is clear that we will be working on this for the next 31 years, so that will develop. The second point concerns Mr Nagel's motion. It draws attention to the importance of consistent application of discount rates. But "consequential" doesn't mean "the same." Because if you take the same thing in different situations, you're just inconsistent. Moreover, it is not the cabinet that makes political choices about how the PBL calculates a discount rate or how it is done in pensions. We have the discount rate working party for that. On these two grounds, namely that 'consequential' is not the same as 'the same' and it is not the cabinet that does this either, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u217	I have indicated that the discount rate is right to compare project variants. That's the definition. In the last century, in the 1970s, we had the wiggle tax, where fairly random loads within a certain bandwidth could go up or down. I notice that we are now, in 2019, enriched with a kind of Wiebestax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u218	That's a nice try, but I already knew the pun. Name jokes are rarely very funny, but let me say this about it. Yes, a discount rate is intended to allow different projects to be compared where money flows are occurring over time. But it's just not like you're comparing that by taking exactly the same numerical discount rate. Risky projects can be compared to non-risk projects by taking a different discount rate. So the comparison becomes valid precisely because you take different discount rates for different types of projects. That is a consistent application. Mrs Flier asked about the obstructive legislation on implementation. That was brought to the attention of the cabinet by the Yeşilgöz motion, which deals precisely with this point. That is another sign that Parliament has a powerful weapon in its hands with the motion. Indeed, we are now looking at where legislation is obstructive. This could be the case, for example, when it comes to enabling private individuals to finance their investments, but what we have loan-to-value-like agreements about. That could be obstructive. Where it is rightly obstructive, it is quite rightly obstructive. But it can also be unjustly obstructive. That's what we're trying to look at. That motion must be carried out, so that is a point of attention. The second question concerns employment. I cannot say anything specific about this yet, but what I can say is that the cabinet, also through the ESC, is still in contact with the social partners on this point. It is also the subject of discussion between me and Mr Koolmees, particularly in relation to the climate agreement. Once again, the statement that people don't want to lose their jobs as a result also has consequences for how to deal with changes in employment. This is still the subject of discussion, and this will have to be reflected in the climate agreement in some way, as was the case in the draft agreement. Her other question concerns transparency and the weighting of interests. I think that there is no other method than in the debate and explaining what these considerations have been. That's the only way we can do it. I do not see a uniform instrument for transparency other than being accountable along this cycle, which we are meeting now. That is what we need to debate and await the reaction of the Chamber. Then we choose the sequel. It is, among other things, up to Mrs Flier to bring that in. It is up to me to listen to it and see how I can respond to it and what we can do with it. Mrs Flier also asked about the consequences of this law for regional authorities. In the immediate sense, there are no such things. It is not the case that this law deals with regional authorities. We have administrative agreements and administrative consultations, because, of course, regional authorities have a lot to do with what we do in climate policy. The spatial design of all the things we have to do alone lies with regional authorities, who will also deal with them in their own way. But this law does not directly involve regional authorities. We'll have to do that in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u219	Mrs. Fiers!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u220	Fiers, yeah. To clarify, my comment on regional authorities was also related to potentially obstructive legislation. If all these local authorities are fully engaged in all kinds of climate action, it may be that they are running into national regulations, which they would like to see amended. That question was asked in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u221	That too is clear. In fact, Mrs Flier says it very carefully, because it is quite often reported to the department that things are going on in regions. That's where we need to go. All kinds of new forms of energy are often not facilitated at all, because energy is, of course, still quite a regulated market. Mrs Teunissen asks me whether I am counting the IPCC in the reasonable middle or among the doom-thinkers. I think that my speech made it very clear that I think that with so many political movements we can achieve the best if we give some weight to what experts and scientists think. Objectivity, figures and solid study bring us closer to each other rather than further apart. I don't mean to put the IPCC among the doomthinkers in any way. There is no reason for that either, because the IPCC is not a party that says that the world is going to end. The IPCC says that we can stick to 1.5°C better than 2°C, but without excessive stories. I'm going to say it out of my head, but I believe the difference in sea level rise between 1.5°C and 2°C is 10 centimeters. That's not a doomsday number. That's not the 7 meter that's gonna flood Amersfoort. So, no, that's not exactly what I'm talking about. In fact, I do not mean to cut anyone in particular with the doomthinkers or the shooters. Actually, my point is that you're not changing the world by expressing your displeasure to the interrupting microphone. You shouldn't take that personally, by the way. We only change the world by working patiently on majorities and with reasonable proposals. For all these proposals, they're never exactly what you'd have done if you'd been alone in the world. I think I can say that on behalf of everyone here. You always come across things you'd rather have done differently, but by searching for that reasonable middle with each other, you'll change the world. That goes one step at a time, takes 31 years and isn't done tomorrow. That's how it goes. I have every respect for Mrs Teunissen's views on the interrupting microphone, and perhaps she agrees with many here. I think Mr Jetten might agree with Mrs Teunissen on the substance. But at this table, despite all these differences, the initiative is to ensure that a step forward is taken with the reasonable middle. And that's the actual argument I made. Other than that, I'm not gonna shave anyone in particular in that corner. By the way, we all see the polarisation in the debate. Then Mr Atsma asked me what was in those costs. These costs are so-called national costs. These are not necessarily the costs that a private individual perceives in that form. Under national costs, you calculate what you need to spend extra. These aren't necessarily just investments. And what saves you extra compared to the situation where you didn't do anything. But it doesn't include all kinds of costs. Taxes aren't part of it, because taxes are what you pay here and get back there. So these are not national costs. You don't count subsidies either, because subsidies disappear here and come back to it. So those aren't national costs either. National costs are what you spend extra, minus what you save. There is everything in it: costs for individuals and companies. It takes into account a certain duration and a certain depreciation. That's how it works. This therefore does not take into account who pays the costs and how they are paid. It is the cost that we all bear. That's the part that takes over our total income. These are the costs that the Planning Office charges for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u222	So that 0.5% and by 2030 0.6% also apply to business, as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u223	Yeah, those are the added costs, divided by our total income. Our total income is the income of households, but it is also the income of companies, the profits of companies. That's how it's calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u224	I had asked a question about the merits. I asked if the Minister of Finance would appreciate this law, as there would be no proper funding under it. Do I have to understand that we have to take that 0.5% into account and that we are all going to pay it? Would that be the cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u225	The view of the Minister of Finance is perhaps even a little more limited, because the Minister of Finance is concerned about the State Treasury. I'm talking about the personal wallet, mostly with Social Affairs. By the way, I may also interfere with the completion of prosperity. The Minister of Finance takes action on concrete legislative proposals. They're supposed to have cover. We need to determine if there's a cost to the government. In addition, there is a social consideration: are there costs for households or for businesses? That's the time to put it together. If we think that this ambition is one on which we are going to go bankrupt, then I think that 'less than 0.5%' is the best way to reassure each other, in the sense that it is probably going to be a lot of trouble, but that we are certainly not going to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u226	I would like to put my first question to the Minister today. I would like to clarify the interaction you had with Mr Atsma on the amendment. Do I understand that an amendment to the climate plan can be tabled? Do I therefore understand that the government is making a commitment that they will not be discouraged when it comes to climate plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u227	Now we're totally getting lost in Parliament. It's not going well. No. In the past, an amending motion has crept into place in a very special case: the planological core decision. We are technically familiar with motions and amendments. In this house, we have motions. All we are saying is that, of course, it suits the government to listen very seriously to these motions. It may be that the government has dissuaded them, it may be that the government has left them judgment Chamber. At some point, they may or may not be accepted. An adopted motion is a serious signal to the government. It is also appropriate for the government to answer for this motion if it is not implemented or not carried out in any way. That's how it works. This means that both Chambers have a serious influence on policy, without having to speak strictly of a new form in the state-law sense as the amending motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u229	I would like to hear from the Minister about civic participation in the climate plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u230	I think that citizen participation in the climate plan should also mark a bit of a start on a journey, but not the whole journey. It is clear that we have achieved little success with the use of the state coordination scheme as a bulldozer. That didn't speed things up. In the short term, it may have seemed nice, but it did not promote support. That is something we can rest assured of. So we need to look for new ways, and we're starting with that. Participation is a way, but organizing participation much earlier is also a way. I think it is also a way of ensuring in the so-called RES's that regional authorities can make more choices themselves, do more exchanges, make them choose between one or the other form of energy, give them much longer the opportunity to think for themselves about where something should be and where not. But that's something we really need to learn. The first step was not necessarily successful. More recently, there are examples where we do better, but I am sure that in ten years we will look a little smiley at what we are doing now and say: boy, what have we learned a lot in those days. We must accept that journey. So I think the beginning will be there, but not the end yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-12.u232	I have come to deal with the proposal for an initiative. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next week on the initiative proposal and that we also vote on the motions tabled next week.
