ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit and the Brexit. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA. Mr Omtzigt has traded with Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr President, on a point of order. We had asked for answers to Parliamentary questions about the control point for live cattle. There is an adopted Chambermovement that says that when the Brexit is there, there is a way to approve cattle.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If there isn't, then our agricultural ex- and import has a big problem. That is why I would like to ask you this: it is still a point of order when the government is going to answer those questions and when the criterion is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u3	During the arrangement at 1.45 p.m....
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u4	This morning at 10.15 a.m. answers to parliamentary questions were sent to the Chamber, but I thought they were about Italy and about another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u6	And about the Brexit. But I don't know what the judge is talking about. Those questions may lie with LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u7	Yes. Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u8	I would ask the government to take these questions with it in the first term, so that they can be answered. 'Cause if there's no checkpoint, we've got a big problem. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll start with my term. The Brexit is chaotic. The British Parliament says "no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no" and we don't know where we're coming from. The concerns are great and therefore I go along a number of points to see if we are prepared for a hard Brexit. But of course I hope that the government will help to avoid it. One: European regulation of an extension of certificates of medicines and devices. In derivatives, we do such a delay and in air traffic control. How do we do this with life-saving drugs? It would be arranged at European or Dutch level. We would like to know whether the plan to do so is European-wide, so that no one dies because there were no resources available. Two: the exchange of police and justice. The normal exchanges within Europe end with a hard Brexit. So we have a problem with the cooperation of the intelligence and security services. The real-time exchange of information with Great Britain, for example through the Schengen Information System, could be compromised. Are there enough existing multilateral treaties, so that in all cases where it can now get real-time information about crimes and terrorism, that can also be done after a hard Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u9	I have a point of order. I would like to say in advance that Mr Omtzig's questions on benchmarks and medicines and judicial cooperation are justified. But we agreed in the Committee on European Affairs that we should leave these questions with the specialist committees. That is why we did not invite all these ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u10	What's the point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u11	We can, of course, ask those questions to the Prime Minister and the questions are important. But they actually belong to a specialist committee and to the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u12	Then you've made your point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr President, I announced yesterday at the meeting that I would ask these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u14	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u15	We're here to see what happens at a hard Brexit. I have great confidence that the Prime Minister is doing his best to prevent it. But that also depends on what happens to the Heads of Government. I can't wait to hear what he's gonna say. I want to know how we're prepared for business on this side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. I've just been talking about the big problems at NVWA. They're about the checkpoint. If there is no approved checkpoint, live animals and certain meat and other agricultural products can be very limited or probably not even imported and exported. France is building a great spot in Calais. We don't have that. May I assume this is arranged before a hard Brexit? I would also like to know whether the bottlenecks at Schiphol Airport have been resolved. As far as financial markets are concerned, a hard Brexit increases the risk of disruption of capital markets. The capital markets of the EU and the UK are closely interlinked. UK parties are abruptly losing market access and vice versa. This leads to serious distortions of trade in securities and to the reduction of cross-border services. According to the AFM, for example, Dutch financial companies may no longer comply with the permit requirements if they have outsourced services to British institutions. This should only be done to companies in a so-called "equivalent supervisory regime." In a hard Brexit, the UK is no longer such a supervisory regime. This can mainly affect the large Dutch asset managers. Is this in the picture or do we have a huge problem here with our pension funds? Mr. Chairman. I will return to the European summit and to the climate. The Council conclusions do not contain any specific percentage for CO reduction. It is reported that Germany and the Visegrád countries are at odds. It seems that European ambitions are getting pretty out of hand with the ambitions of this cabinet. When does the Prime Minister expect concrete EU climate objectives? And what climate plans does he expect in the meantime from surrounding countries? Do we have the same objectives with CO reduction in 2030 and 2050? My compliments to this government for holding a conference in Europe on 20 and 21 June on a joint flight tax. Because how you burden flies is an example of what you can best do with all of them in the same way. It is only right that the Dutch Government should take the initiative there. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Italy. The Italian Government's course remains extremely dangerous. There is too much deficit, no growth and now even a recession. We are waiting for the Italian budget figures. My guess is, they're gonna be over 3% short, and they're gonna be billions out of control. Italy has a toxic banking system. There is a motion to make public the calculations by which the European Commission has miraculously approved this budget. The government said: we are going to write a letter if the Euro-WOB request leads to those calculations not being made public. I will hold the government to do so immediately. But today I have the following question to the Prime Minister: does he think that the risks in Italy's banking system are decreasing or increasing and how does he reduce the risks of Italy? Finally, one sentence about the China Summit coming up. When does the Dutch government expect the joint approach to the security of 5G networks? Has the Council addressed Italy on the far-reaching deal that the country has made with China? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Constitutionally, it was a very special display, yesterday in the British Parliament, but it did not bring any solution. It is clear, however, that a large majority of the British Parliament does not want a hard Brexit. We do not want that either, and yet that is still a real scenario and that is actually insane. Let me be honest, I have also thought about the past few months, when I see all that thunder: good riddance, but we must not let emotion guide us. I hear the word " humiliation" very often. The humiliation of Prime Minister May, who has to wait in a side room for the other Heads of Government. The humiliation of the British people by the inability of their own politicians. But humiliation has never brought anything good in history. If there's a hard Brexit, we've lost too. My group therefore welcomes the fact that the European summit has created some room for manoeuvre by allowing an extension to the European elections, provided that the British agree tomorrow to May's deal, or otherwise come up with another plan before 12 April, 'a cunning plan', would say Blackadder. But what if the outcome of that British pinball machine is that there will be elections or a referendum? In my view, we must somehow create space. I would like a response from the Prime Minister. At the same time, I understand that an extension should not be a despondent repetition of moves, but rather a little more spread over time. That's not gonna do any better. There must also be more oxygen in the negotiations, or more eggs in the basket. We need to talk much more about this future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, so that there is also a perspective and gradually an idea about what such a divorce act will bring. Then China. I'm glad it didn't fall completely off the agenda, with all the attention paid to the Brexit. According to the European Commission, China is a partner of the European Member States but also a system rival; a rival that represents a different model of the economy and life, with a different human image. What does the Prime Minister think of this qualification? With a system rival, you don't just do business. You have to have a really good eye for the consequences. Is there a clear view of how much China invests in Europe? In the Netherlands we do investment tracking and do analyses, so that we can assess whether we still think all this is desirable. 35% of the largest container terminal in the port of Rotterdam, half of the European nuclear waste disposal and part of the British nuclear power station Hinkley Point are in the hands of the Chinese. Is that wise? What are the prime minister's anchor points? Last week, the Prime Minister said that the EU should be united and self-conscious; the EU is a strong trading bloc and we must use it as a means of power. I fully agree with that, but in the meantime 16 Central and Eastern European countries have signed contracts with China, Italy has signed a memorandum and five months ago the Netherlands received the Chinese Prime Minister and EUR 8.5 billion in contracts has been signed. According to the Prime Minister, when are agreements and investments no longer complementary to EU policies? I would like some guidelines and some examples of them. Last week, the Commission issued recommendations on 5G. All Member States must carry out a risk assessment in their own countries and then a joint toolbox of possible measures will be created. It didn't get very clear to me. What does this mean for the Dutch decisions on 5G? What does this mean for the planning to have 5G in Amsterdam by 2020 and for the further roll-out? I understand KPN wants to go with Huawei for 5G. What is the direction of the cabinet? The idea was that there would be a Chinese strategy from the cabinet, I believe, with the idea of proactive action, but that seems to be a sort of post-active action, if that China strategy is to wait much longer. Finally, on human rights. The cabinet claims to have called for human rights to be raised at the summit. What was the response to that call? Has there been any specific talk of the EU's tone? And does the Prime Minister notice any opposition from EU countries that would prefer to remain silent? To what extent does this have to do with the links that some countries have attracted a little more with China in recent months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr President, I know it is not customary to refer to the gallery, but there are two colleagues of mine and one class. That's kind of you to mention. Hello, class and colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u22	You're very welcome. You, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr President, thank you for doing this. The Brexit deal presented to their clients by EU-27 negotiators in November proved not viable. The only reason why we are not talking about the consequences of a no deal right now is that the Brexit has been postponed for two weeks. Chances are we'll be back here in two weeks. The exit agreement has sufficiently protected the interests of the EU-27. After all, for our part, there has been hardly any dissonance. But in Britain, the deal has led to great political instability. The problem of the Irish border has, of course, not been solved in a no deal with a hard border on the Irish island. The border on the Irish island was precisely the main reason for the backstop with a border in the Irish Sea. That backstop is again an unacceptable step-in-the-way for many British parliamentarians. Classic catch 22. Mr. Chairman. Where two negotiate, there are also two responsibilities. Last week, President Tusk sharpened the pre-European summit relations by saying that a short delay in the Brexit would only be possible if the British Parliament agreed to the exit agreement, knowing exactly what was going on in the United Kingdom. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether Tusk spoke in turn, or whether all 27 Heads of Government had already reached agreement before the summit. Has our prime minister had any contact with Tusk prior to the summit? If so, what did the Prime Minister discuss with Donald Tusk? That is actually a recurring problem: the EU political summit sees itself as a gift from heaven and the federal state as the only logical way forward. If a Member State wants to leave the EU, that European elite is gonna go down in the sand. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Animal Party that Tusk's statement has been a classic example of European power politics and that this power policy is exactly what the British and many other Europeans have tobacco from? Or does the Prime Minister find it acceptable that an unelected President of the European Council should instruct elected representatives of the people what choice they should make. I'd like a response. Mr President, a positive note. Despite the fact that the British do not agree on everything either, there is at least agreement on the fact that the Brexit can be a blessing for British agriculture. It is the fastest way out of the suffocating common agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy has failed. In Britain, too, the CAP, as it is called, has achieved exactly the opposite of what it aims to achieve: such as exhaustion of agricultural land, land speculation, you name it. Mr. Chairman. Like the Animal Party, other parties, including the CDA, have now been concerned about the fate of the animals. We've seen written questions come along. The horrible international transport of animals is now threatening to cause even greater suffering. It is now clear that the NVWA has not been able to hire enough people. Probably the British have similar problems. At school, I'd say to the Prime Minister, "Don't look on your plane."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u24	No, Mr. Van Raan, set a good example to your students in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What does it mean for the many animals we export to the United Kingdom? I'd like an answer from this Prime Minister. I would once again like to call for a partial ban on breeding, such a restriction that the animals we export to the United Kingdom are not born at all, in order to prevent terrible emergency slaughters. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. In general, Mr. Van Raan is kind, I say to the students. I now turn to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. The departure of the United Kingdom concerns the moods in London and Brussels, but also in all other capitals, or in this case our court city. In November, I predicted that the deal with the forced emergency situation in which Northern Ireland is treated differently from the rest of the United Kingdom will become a major obstacle. Yet the remaining countries within the European Union are holding on to this. Without a view of a future relationship, this emergency measure is a bone in the throat of many. And I understand that. It is as if we were to decide to leave the European Union and it is said that we are keeping Brabant for a while. Not that I want us to get out, by the way. And Brabant I certainly want to stay with the Netherlands. It has now been decided to move the deadline by two weeks, hoping that the House of Commons will agree. But what if that doesn't work? Has there also been talk of what movement the remaining countries of the European Union can make? Can anything be said about this future relationship? For example, can the emergency measure with that limit be minimised? Are there any countries that stand in the way of giving space here? As the Prime Minister says, he is implementing the Verhoeven motion, which gives some room for the government from the Parliament, but we also know that in September at the informal summit in Salzburg Macron, the door closed very hard to a proposal made by May in the summer. When I asked the Prime Minister what happened there, he said that this had been "inflammatory," which in good Dutch means incendiary. Has Mr Macron been inflammatory again at the last summit, I should like to ask. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister to what the EU citizens' interest organisation, The 3 Million, has put forward. They say: our interests are simply used as a means of exchange. And I can see that. I can actually see that when it comes to, for example, accepting patents of medicines and devices. Here too, people's interests are being used as a means of exchange. Does the Prime Minister think we're good at it that way? The divorce is already very difficult. You cannot, apparently, come from the European Union if a people decides to do so. As wise or as foolish as I think that decision was, that was the outcome of the referendum. The interests of people are then used to increase the atmosphere and moods as much as possible. While everyone has their hands full with the shameful chess game around the Brexit, current President Romania seizes this opportunity to push the export WW through. Last Tuesday we had a debate with Minister Koolmees. He refused to pick up the glove to fight it and pull the emergency brake. A day later, the news came that it had been postponed, but now we hear that Romania wants to press through tomorrow. Now I would like this Prime Minister to take action. Because we know that the moment you get a WW of €1,200 there is no incentive to look for a job of €600 in Poland. Is he still willing to pull that emergency brake? I will table a motion for this and then we will have to vote on it today if the Prime Minister does not simply promise to do so. Then there is the message that yesterday was decided to stop picking up migrants at sea. And in six months, we'll see what's needed. That is harsh, because now only the Libyan Coast Guard is left and we know that these people are sending directly back to the detention centres that Minister Kaag said should be closed because of human rights violations. This is contrary to the Refugee Convention, which forbids sending people back to unsafe countries. I really don't think it fits. We're not getting anywhere on this file, but we'll stop rescue operations. The SP says we have to tackle the root causes of people migrating. We need to make it possible for asylum procedures to be started on the African continent, but to stop saving people when you have nothing in your hands to do anything about this migration, I really find the shame of this time. And one more question, Mr President, if I may. It's about the announced China Summit. Mrs Buitenweg already had a more extensive story about it. I don't think I can explain it. On the one hand, we are talking about 'the great danger of China', and this Prime Minister is talking about 'we must become more powerful as Europe'. At the same time, Italy, the Netherlands, France and the eastern members of the European Union are concluding billions of trade agreements with the Chinese...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u29	...and Greece is even forced to sell its harbor. That contradicts each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am talking about the drama in the United Kingdom: the Brexit. We have seen that the parliament there said "no, no, no, no, no, no, no." There is an expression for that in Dutch: "I am 2 and I say no!" That's what toddlers say. And at some point, they have to get out of that phase, because you're not gonna get anywhere with it. It is extremely irresponsible behaviour, and they take risks with the job security and income of millions of British people, of many Dutch people and of many other Europeans. It is completely irresponsible, and truly tragic to see. I'd like to add: who flirts with a nextit, pokers with all our certainties. I see the PVV is always there to play that wonderful role. The other party flirting with a nexit isn't here again. But it's really dangerous when you look at how you deal with your country's interests. These interests are likely to be harmed, for example the interests of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom and vice versa. We are participating in an initiative law of D66 to safeguard the position of those Dutch citizens. I would like a reaction from the cabinet, because I think it is a pity that we need to deal with this as a matter of urgency. The second group we're worried about is the employees. These can be affected by the shock that will arise if that no-dealbrexit occurs anyway. We have seen in the government's replies which sectors are particularly vulnerable: the cut flowers, the meat, transport. But then the cabinet says it's "a foreseeable risk," and that's why the cabinet doesn't like to make additional provisions. Frankly, I don't think that's fair. All kinds of arrangements are being made, especially for the larger parties. What we are concerned about is what can happen to smaller companies and to SMEs, where people work who will suddenly see their turnover disappear as a result of the shock. It seems to me to be better, and the Labour Party is also in favour of creating a fund and filling it with European resources. This will enable us to make part-time WW possible and help companies with emergency credits, so that they can bridge that period and so that those workers do not lose their jobs. Because it's a real shame if we let that happen in this economy. So I ask the Prime Minister to respond to that. The third group hit by the Brexit is the bankers. We have heard the argument of the boss of one of our big banks to start taking advantage of that Brexit by adjusting our bonus rules. But as far as the Labour Party is concerned, the Brexit is not a earning model. We shouldn't want that. We should not want to lure these companies here with tax advantages, nor with bonus rules. So I ask the Prime Minister to give a qualification for that statement, because I think that is a statement that is bad for the reputation of the Netherlands. Parliament has not hesitated for nothing with regard to how we deal with taxes. But this kind of statement, namely that we are going to relax the bonus rules to take advantage of another person's misery, is wrong. I look forward to hearing the Prime Minister's response to this. Mr. Chairman. The Brexit must not distract us from the fact that there is a great deal to improve and change within the European Union as it is today. That's what elections are about. It is important that Europe chooses a value-driven Europe, but also a social Europe and a progressive Europe. That means you're not going to compete on most flexible labor with the United States, but you're not going to compete on low standards with China either. That is why it is important at the forthcoming EU-China summit to take the lead that the sustainable development sectors, which the European Commission has committed themselves to, and the Netherlands too, are leading the way for possible agreements with China. I ask the Prime Minister to make a commitment to that. The second element, which Mrs Buitenweg also pointed out, is what kind of party is China? What about human rights? How exactly do we dare to make that? The fate of 1 million Uighurs who are locked up; that is denied by the Chinese. We call on the Prime Minister to press for independent research to be carried out and to make this part of the discussion at that EU-China summit. Because a Europe based on values must be promoted internally and externally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of things we don't know today. But there is one certainty: tomorrow is March 29th and it is not Brexit day. How did that happen? I'll tell you. Remainer May was responsible for negotiating the conditions for departure and in Brussels she faced a stubborn front with two thoughts: "We want to keep the British and if they leave anyway, let it be once and for all." And Tusk even reserved a special place in hell for the Brexiteers. The result was a deal that the United Kingdom, although drawing from the EU institutions, does not take the European Union from the United Kingdom. A deal that will subject the country to the whims of Brussels in the coming years. And multiple moods and a real insert didn't work out very well. May and Juncker have managed to make the deal unacceptable for just about everyone. And so it could happen that a referendum result where a majority chose an exit, about three years later, turned into a debate on a new referendum, a no deal, another deal, new elections, longer postponement or even set-off. Mr. Chairman. The British people voted almost three years ago to take control back. They wanted control back from the European Union. The British Parliament took over that power from Prime Minister May on Monday. That resulted in eight times no to the different options they had put on the table yesterday. And after, allegedly, handing out knighthoods and promises about money, Prime Minister May is now sacrificing in a final attempt to get the agreement through her head in exchange for the support for the deal that no one really wants. It seems that too few parliamentarians are warm for that too. Regardless of whether that is enough to spawn the opponents, it is unclear whether with a text that is virtually unchanged and the European Union's stubborn refusal to change another letter, a third ballot will be allowed at all. Today we can only speculate on that. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the order of the day is changed. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Meer Europese Unie.]] President Macron recently put a dime in an open letter addressed to the citizens of Europe. More European cooperation is needed to save Europe from ruin. Among other things, we need a European climate bank, a European health authority and a European social safety net. Cheers went up at D66 and the VVD refused a basic no. In the last few weeks alone, this House has been talking about the insane EU proposal, so that we can give our WW benefits to migrant workers even more easily. On a piece by the European Commission which shows that the Marrakech Pact is still binding, the European Parliament decided to restrict the free internet and our pulse fishermen were killed. Apparently, nothing has been learned in those past few years. The train goes on and as a good boy in the classroom, we systematically refuse to use the few resources we have left, and so we continue to sink into the EU marsh. Tomorrow is the two-year term of the famous article 50 and yet tomorrow is not a Brexit day. Because last week the European Council decided to postpone. Mr. Chairman. Let there be no delay. Article 50 provides Member States with the possibility of retiring. That should not be a paper escape, not a Hotel California, not a cult, but a real opportunity to leave the club, so that the Netherlands can also detach from the European superstate by means of a nexit in the future. Finally, a number of questions. Is it true that tomorrow there may be another debate and a vote on the deal between May and Juncker? And what is the European Union prepared to do? Mr Tusk made a plea in the European Parliament for a long delay this week. What exactly does the Prime Minister mean by a long delay? The date of 1 April was also mentioned, 1 April next year. I don't know if that's a joke, but maybe we can reflect on that. Finally, what about the negotiations on the multiannual budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u34	To begin with, I would like to congratulate Mrs Maeijer, one of the next parties who is always here to defend that point. Others who shout that very loudly, they are not here. So much for the compliments. But then what Mrs. Maeijer says. I think the British can do just fine from the European Union. They could be gone tomorrow without a deal! Only, what have the British seen now? In fact, it is not wise to leave the European Union without a deal. Actually, they're not thinking about what that means until now. Mrs Maeijer has been able to see for almost three years how the British struggle with Brexit and cannot determine how they want to get out. My question then is: is the PVV still for a nextit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr President, my answer is very brief: yes. I am glad that Mr Mulder once again expresses his unmistakable appreciation for the fact that I am here. He's done that at least five times in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u36	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u37	You can't learn anything from the last three years of the Brexit and that shows the PVV. They don't learn anything from it, and they just hang on. But once again, congratulations on her standing here and not the other party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u38	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u39	What I learned from it is something Mr Mulder should have learned from it. That is that the Brexit only makes it clear that we must leave the European Union as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr Drost was sworn in last Tuesday and today he is making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u41	A lot of interruptions!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u42	As is usual in this house during a maiden speech, there is no interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u43	Hey!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u44	I now give the floor to Mr Drost. I see the Prime Minister would like to interrupt, but... Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr President. I think it's an honor and a great privilege to be here today. But first of all, I would like to wish Mr Stieneke van der Graaf a great deal of health and prosperity for the time ahead. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin my contribution to your Chamber on the basis of three aspects of the life and work of a well-known theologian, philosopher and writer in our country and in Europe from the beginning of the sixteenth century. I am talking about Desiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam. To him are school communities, a European education programme, streets and bridges, an academic hospital and a university. The first facet. Erasmus was a deeply religious and very devout Christian. In fact, that was the basis of his life and work. That was what formed him and how he saw and studied everything around him. He read classical philosophers and wrote his books and letters. Or as he himself said: "For this is the ultimate purpose for which man was created: to know, love and praise his Creator, Savior, Ruler and Benefactor." At Erasmus, this basis ensured that he saw good life as a personal responsibility for every human being, from king to farmer, from spiritual layman. Not pointing at the other, but starting in your own heart. Is my purpose even pure? Do I have what's best for the people around me? The second aspect, Mr President, which touched me when I read some of the Erasmus works, was the way he started the debate. Erasmus understood the art of looking for the intention behind what motivated the other to reach a point of view, despite a sharp disagreement, so as to also name that inner motive and to accompany a suggestion of how something could be even better. By way of illustration and paraphrase, it is not wrong to love your country so much that you would even be willing to leave the European Union to make it even more beautiful. But wouldn't it have been even better, even more to build the nation if all this time and energy had been put into further eradicating poverty and exploitation of people, for example? I think it would be a gain if we were to be a little more willing in our country to see the good in the other and to name it, and thus to show the real eye for each other. The third point, Mr President, is that Erasmus is constantly pleading for peace and cooperation between peoples, for mercy and for compassion. And that is the bridge to today's debate, because Erasmus laid the foundations for the European Union, as we know it today. The same spirit also drove Robert Schuman when he read his famous declaration on 9 May 1950, which marked the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community. Not as an opportunistic economic cooperation, but as a community of peoples looking for lasting peace and reconciliation: a unique step in our history. That is where the pain of Brexit lies: in the fact that one of the contributors of that peace and cooperation now chooses to break the bond that we had so consciously established. That is why the Christian Union continues to plead for a soft Brexit. When one of the partners cancels the marriage, it is important to arrange the divorce itself in a proper way but also to ensure that after that a sensible relationship remains as soon as possible. The events of recent weeks led us to the following questions to the Prime Minister. How does the government now estimate the chance of a no-dealbrexit? Or have the odds of a soft brexit just increased? Do you see any other ways to steer the process in the desired direction from the European side? Does the government agree with us that it is very important that we now look ahead to the new and good follow-up relationship with Great Britain and that it is therefore important to show that flexibility in the negotiations on the final separation which lays a good basis for this? I would like to conclude, Mr President, with a final quote from Erasmus. "In the meantime, you must let go of your ambition and your stubborn will to win, let go of your preferences just like your personal feuds, shut up the deafening screams of mad fight, and ultimately swindle the peace-giving truth. Let compassion come to it, so that both sides admit something to each other, something that is necessary for unity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Drost, for this beautiful speech, the wise words and especially the fact that you remind us of the beautiful writings of Erasmus. I'd like to be the first to congratulate you on your maiden speech. Then I suspend, because I see that the fraction of the Christian Union is ready with a beautiful bunch of flowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u47	We will continue with the debate on the European Summit and the Brexit. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I congratulate Mr Drost on his maiden speech. For me, that's a bit of a Speedy Gonzales two days after the swearing-in. It was a nice speech. Of course, it is not up to us to take the measure of our colleagues in the House of Commons, but what chaos there is. Tomorrow, March 29th, would be the day of the deal. There's no deal yet. Earlier in this debate, I have brought Shakespeare in, but a contemporary reality television programme is certainly there, and no doubt there will be at least one dissertation and a few books on what has happened there in recent weeks and has not happened either. The most important news, of course, is that yesterday Prime Minister Theresa May announced that she would close the door on Downing Street 10 if the agreement she concluded with the European Union received the support of a majority of the House of Commons. Whether that happens, we still don't know. More and more parliamentarians who initially did not want to know about the agreement twice have now pledged their support. But whether there are enough is the question, especially now that the Northern Ireland DUP continues to refuse to support the agreement. If there is a majority, the question arises as to what happens after Prime Minister May's departure. The armored Brexit supporters have already made it clear that the new Prime Minister in Brussels will once again negotiate with the EU on the elaboration of the agreement. Does the Prime Minister consider that, if the threat of a no deal is off the table, there is again room for negotiations to adjust that deal? And what will the EU do if the exit agreement is not approved, but there may be an alternative in the form of a customs union between the United Kingdom and the EU on Monday, not to mention a new referendum or new elections? Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, there has been a great deal of time, money and energy spent on measures that would have to deal with the adverse effects of leaving without an agreement. But there are still a lot of worries. I also refer to the concerns expressed earlier by Mr Omtzigt and the questions he has put to the Prime Minister. Yesterday we received a comprehensive letter from the joint employers full of concerns about this. The safety workers' unions were also alarmed. But what is the prime minister's real view of the possibility of leaving without agreement? It is understandable that the threat of leaving without an agreed agreement has been strongly triggered by the EU over the past week, even though it was clear that a majority of British parliamentarians wanted to prevent this. But how realistic is the no-deal scenario right now? Of course we would also like to hear a response to these letters. The 50PLUS Group is also curious about what happens when the agreements are implemented in the agreement, albeit with some delay. Then what do we do with all the extra customs officers and judges recruited? Do we send it back? I hope not, because we need them very much to cover other deficits. Can we use these customs officers for, for example, a firmer hunt for cocaine transports through our ports? And what happens to all the other extra provisions that have been made? 50PLUS would like a commitment from the Prime Minister to give the Chamber a clear overview of the costs incurred by the Netherlands to deal with the uncertainty surrounding the Brexit process. Mr. Chairman. This debate is also intended to take a look back at last week's European Council. My group has two questions about this. Can it be seen from the very general text on the relationship with China that, as we feared, there is no agreement between the Member States on the EU's attitude towards China, which is becoming increasingly active, first in Africa and now in Europe with all kinds of bilateral trade agreements? In this context, I also agree with Mr Leijten's question on the export WW, namely whether there is still a possibility of an emergency stop. Otherwise, 29 March will not be the day of a deal on the UK's exit, but the WW export day. We shouldn't want that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Italy. We wonder whether the Italian banking sector will not be a much greater risk than the already big problem of a no deal on the Brexit. There are no reforms. There is increasing support from the ECB for Italy. This brings me to the question of whether you will be able to explain why Dutch pension funds are becoming increasingly the victim of continuing helping and helping Italy more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr President, thank you. I say it more often: what matters is that we must protect what we are building in the Netherlands and in the European Union in terms of security and prosperity. The Brexit's gonna crack in there. This also leads to great chaos in the United Kingdom. Despite that, we still have parties here who want a nextit. What happened now? Prime Minister May of the United Kingdom requested a postponement last week. I think that was a rather unexpected request. The fact that she would make that request was well known, but she had just said that she would want a long delay if there were no deal and she came to Brussels with a short delay. Strange. Did the European Union expect this from Mrs May? The deal that has now been made with the United Kingdom seems to be a sensible one. It gives the UK extra time to see what they want and to see if they can still drag that deal through parliament. If that succeeds, if I am right, tomorrow will be the vote on this deal between Mrs May and the European Union. They can stay until 22 May to amend their laws. Why May 22nd? As of 23 May, elections to the European Parliament will take place. If not, the British will go out on 12 April and we will have a Brexit, because 12 April is the last day on which the British could prepare for the EP elections. My question is: is it true and is it also legally correct that the British should really participate in these elections if they are in the EU after 23 May? Is that legally clear? For the rest, it's mostly waiting for what the British are going to do. A number of colleagues have already said it: eight times no yesterday. There's a majority for nothing at all. In fact, the British are only now having the debate they should have had before the referendum: not just about "do we want a Brexit?" but also about "what kind of Brexit?" I think it would be wise if, however difficult that may be, we could sit still, wait for what the British come up with and prepare ourselves for a no-deal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u51	I understand very well what Mr Mulder is saying: we must wait for what the British are doing. At the same time, if they do not agree, we can say that we have an agreement, but we do not, because an agreement requires two people. What then is the responsibility of the other 27 at some point to prevent what we all do not want, namely a hard Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think that what has happened over the past week is wise, namely to postpone it. But the problem is you're negotiating here with a partner and a parliament that lives in a fantasy world. We have said this before and some of us have spoken to some British parliamentarians. They really think they'll get better economically if they get out without a deal. Parliament has united on nothing but nos, without thinking about what one wants. With partners like this, it's very bad negotiation. If you are in Britain, some of us have been there, then you will also hear that postponement is not really a good thing and that you must force those parliamentarians, however unsympathetic that may sound, to make a choice and, as it were, put the gun on the chest. Unfortunately, I fear there is no more to it than this, because you will also hear that if you give them any more delay, they will sit on their hands again and all will be stuck in their own Brexit, a referendum, a no-deal, a Norway-plus or a Canada-style.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u54	They need to be forced to choose and make decisions. That's not gonna happen, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u55	Yeah, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u56	We shouldn't make their problem our problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u58	It will be, but we can't fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mrs. Buitenweg!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u60	Well, those were very wise last words, because he said at the end: "We shouldn't make their problem our problem, but it will be." That is the case, because at the end of the day it is also our problem. All those references that they're toddlers or that they're not capable of anything, don't make much sense. What I and also my colleague Bram van Ojik have often indicated is that we are only focusing on one point. There is therefore no solution at this point. That's very problematic. So the fact is that you may need to step back, broaden the playing field and talk about several things, for example about the future relationship between the UK and the EU. Then there will be some air in the negotiations and perhaps there will also be more insight into a solution. Only with a gun on the chest has never brought a political solution closer in a way where both parties also come out with dignity and with confidence in the future of that relationship. It's gonna have to last a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u61	I would agree with Mrs Buitenweg if you were rational. In the run-up to this, you will see that the British Conservative Party was divided under Cameron in 2016. Europe is divided. What does David Cameron say, the Prime Minister? I have a problem in my party, I park it and do a referendum, because then I don't have to argue anymore. The problem begins with a divided Conservative Party. However rational we are as Dutch people, how we would like to find a solution together, opposition leader Corbyn and Mrs May simply do not find each other in a time of national crisis. If this were to happen in our parliament, we would all sit together and make a deal. But with this kind of irrationality, it's hard to deal. I also sympathize and stand by when I talk to Mr Jacob Rees-Mogg. What do I have here? I'm also looking powerless. I stood there with my Belgian colleague who just got mad at Jacob Rees-Mogg, and he didn't understand it either. But you won't get the wisdom in! The man really thinks he's better off outside the European Union without a deal! Then you try to talk rationality into facts and figures, but when you say that, he says: well, Mr. Mulder, you shouldn't listen to economic predictions and experts; that's not convenient. Talking to people like that who aren't rational is hard. I'd like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u62	There's not just rationality here. If you're looking at this, Madam President, there's a chunk of emotion here. I understand all that, but the fact is we need to look at it less emotionally. We do not have a deal when the British do not agree, and then we ourselves have to think about how we want to proceed. None of us benefit from a no deal. I myself think "good riddance" as I said, but that is not the rational way forward. On the contrary, I would ask Mr Mulder to be a little less in favour of his rationality and to act more rationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u63	Show a man a little emotion at last, it's not good again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u64	And why am I emotional? 'Cause I can see that, too. Because I see how politicians play with their country's interests. For party political reasons, for the personal ambitions of a Boris Johnson, who writes two letters for the referendum. One to support it and the other not. You see people playing there! As a Dutch parliamentarians, I believe that we should be careful about the security and prosperity we have built up. It's very fragile. I won't say it's a vase, that campaign's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u65	But you're gonna do it anyway. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u66	But I'm definitely emotional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u67	When I hear Mr Mulder, whom I very much appreciate for his vision of Europe, he almost seems to be applying for a position in the British House of Commons. I'm almost worried about the emotional tone he's taking. I agree with Mrs Buitenweg and would like to say to Mr Mulder: let us remain calm for a moment, let us keep our thoughts calm. If we find ourselves so calm, which is very doubtful, let us at least give others the space to unwind. I would like to ask Mr Mulder that, and I am serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr Mulder is also very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u69	Absolutely, and emotionally. There have now been nine options on the table, the eight of yesterday and twice the May deal, so actually ten, but they have all said no to that. Then why does Mr Mulder think that this is the time to put the gun to the chest in order to force them to make a choice? It has turned out that this is not the right approach. You'd better create some space and peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u70	I'm putting my emotions back. I have also thought that you should give them time, but the experts in Britain also say that there is no point in delay. People still stand up for what kind of Brexit they want. You can stay calm and delay, but that doesn't solve the problem. Then the Brexiteers go back into their shell and stay on their point of view. It won't move. I would like to hear what we should do, but I do not see the alternative. I'm very open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u71	It's gonna be a bit of a chicken egg debate, because some of the parties here in the Chamber actually say, "Give them a reprieve so they can figure out what they want." You're actually saying I want to hear what they want before they get a reprieve. If the May deal or the Customs Union variant, which was very close yesterday, does not make it in the next few days, I also think that no deal is actually the only alternative or that the electorate should start speaking again through referendums or elections. Would Mr Mulder, in the latter case, at least allow the citizen to go through that process again? Then you will really have a new situation with more room for a new decision by the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u72	Look, we're not at the end yet. Colleague Asscher has said that this is the "mother of all chicken games": who blinks first with his eyes. We're not done yet. Tomorrow's probably gonna be the meaningful vote, so the vote, and then there's another weekend and then it's gonna be April 12th. I think this can go on until one second before twelve. And then Mr Verhoeven comes up with an as-question. Yes, you should be careful not to get ahead of it, but a new referendum seems to me to be a new fact, so you might consider a postponement. It's up to the British first. Actually, you should leave it with them, too. Now that we are talking about it, I am particularly curious about the experience with Prime Minister Rutte and Mrs May, the rationality and the emotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u73	I am now a very sensible consideration for Mr Mulder. By the way, emotion can also be wise. "If there are new facts, we can look at a longer or more generous delay." That's what I've actually heard him say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u74	But it does depend on what the new facts...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u75	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u76	We know Mr. Mulder as someone who has trouble with emotion and is good in frames.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u77	I know exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u78	Because when he was a member of the Health Committee he found it so intense that sometimes female colleagues were just emotional about what's going on in the care, that he frame them away like squeezing bitches.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u79	That is why I made that remark!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u80	How does he see himself in this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u81	This is a point of order, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u82	No, yes, but I won't officially ask the question. I find it really too easy how he puts the Brexit voters away again as a couple of crazy people. You are very ignorant of what the European Union itself has contributed to the Brexit and how the other Heads of Government have contributed in the two years of negotiations to the fact that we are now dealing with a deal that is not going to get through. My question is: does Mr Mulder recognise that the deal that is not now coming through the House of Commons is the deal of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u83	The first point and the second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u84	The European Union and Mrs May have concluded the deal together, and now it is intended to go through the House of Commons. But just so we're clear, the British want out. They can; they voted for it. They just didn't think about the way they did it. They live in a fantasy world. And that's what's vengeful now. They never took their population into what Brexit means exactly. And then about the VWS committee. We've been in that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u85	Yeah, I'm curious about that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u86	I said something about that. In the end, I met you in the European Affairs Committee. Mrs Leijten then followed me from the VWS committee, so we meet again in the same committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u87	But that wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u88	Let me make you a personal note. My mom said, "Your friend Renske is coming back to you on the committee."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u89	It is now actually very visible that Mr Mulder is or a little afraid of women, or a little bit looking down on women, but well. I really do like it when you put your fellow roommates away like shivering bitches and then when you put your opponents away in European Affairs like whining because you're not for a Brexit, while others are. You need to get out of there. Mr Mulder has just recognised that it is also the deal of the European Union which is now stranded in the House of Commons. Is it really only the United Kingdom's problem, or is it a common problem, for which there can also be a common solution, I ask the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u90	Let's not go into the first part, because then we'll get all kinds of annoying, unjust...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u91	No, but it's got to be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u92	On the other point, I think I have made it quite clear what the problem is. It started with David Cameron. There was a referendum, just to guard the unity of the conservative party. Then there was a campaign about Brexit without ever being told what its consequences would be. A number of British parliamentarians live in a fantasy world. It will be difficult to negotiate if one party has enormous expectations, which are not true, and the other party does not have, but is more rational, well, more realistic. That's the problem here. So it is not so much a problem caused by the European Union as a problem on the British side. There is not well thought out in advance what Brexit means. Invoking Article 50 at Brexit and then not knowing how to do it after two years? In fact, that is political amateurism on the part of the United Kingdom, which we do suffer from, I agree, but which is difficult to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u93	When the negotiations began, the remaining countries of the European Union demanded that we first talk about the divorce and then discuss the future relationship. This has helped to ensure that there is now a divorce that we do not want to agree to. This is entirely due to the fact that the future relationship is not clear. So you can really put everything on the other side of the lake, but the Heads of Government also played a big part in this situation. I am so sorry that Mr Mulder continues to point out, rather than realizing that it is also wise to put his hand in his own bosom once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u94	I agree with the latter. Let's talk about the cut. I believe that the Chamber has unanimously agreed to this. We were gonna take care of three things first. 1) Civil rights. This is important for the population. 2) The financial regulation. You don't want a cow business with the 40 billion the British still have to pay. 3) The Irish border, which we have seen how sensitive it is. That's also reported to the Chamber. So those three things first; those were the prioritites. The British agreed to this in the negotiations. Then we should not have agreed to that. However, there was strong consensus on this, including in the Chamber. I think we were all there. Then we should not say anything else two years later. Those three things are also sensible, civil rights, regulation and the Irish border.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u95	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u96	Quite apart from the fact that the citizens feel like bartering in these negotiations, I asked for a response from the Prime Minister, it is wrong that there was unanimity on this issue. In the discussions that have taken place in the Chamber, I have said from the outset: do not go into a divorce and then talk about the new relationship. There was a lot of support for that, but indeed not in the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u97	All right, you've made your point. I suggest you move on, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u98	I've already asked for a look-through from the Prime Minister in the negotiations. I also saw a nice picture of the negotiations. You saw all the top officials in the EU countries standing over that text and you also saw two Dutch officials in the front row. In short, the Netherlands is also literally short on these negotiations. I think that's a good signal. The downside of the Brexit is that other important topics don't get the time they actually deserve. For example, the relationship with China, which almost all colleagues have asked for. These issues are almost falling off the agenda due to a lack of time. How does the Prime Minister view that? I also mention what Italy is doing with the new Silk Road. If you're not careful and you're in debt to the Chinese that you can't repay, you have a problem. Mrs Buitenweg asked about reciprocity between the 16+1, the 16 Central and Eastern European countries and China. Is there now an EU-led strategy towards China? Then the climate. That will be back on the agenda in June. What can we expect from this point of view? And finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u99	In fact, I would suggest that you complete your contribution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u100	... the internal market. That too is an important point. How do we perfect it? We make a month's salary on international trade. This could be even better by removing barriers to trade in services. That'll come back in 2020. What can we expect from that? The Brexit unfortunately does not give important subjects the attention they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u101	I have indeed mentioned a number of examples of the cooperation of, for example, the 16 European countries with China and Italy's memorandum. However, I also mentioned that five months ago the Netherlands itself received the Chinese Prime Minister and, I understand, exchanged more than 8 billion orders. Could Mr Mulder perhaps put that in the list of countries that might make their Alleingang with China?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u102	I believe that trade with China is good in itself, but we must ensure reciprocity. If EU companies and Dutch companies want to invest there, then so can Chinese companies here. There's something missing right now. We have to be careful, and that is a bit threatening with this new Silk Road from the Chinese that we are going to borrow from the Chinese and cannot repay our debt. Then the Chinese are going to make conditions. So you can act, but you have to beware of losing your independence. If certain countries in Europe are constrained by China, Europe will no longer be able to act as a united force against China. So if you continue to act independently, trade with China in itself is not wrong. But be careful not to put yourself in debt with China that you can't repay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u103	I actually agree with Mr Mulder. Of course, trading with China is not necessarily wrong. I am still looking at those countries, such as Greece. The colleague of the SP also said: the port of Piraeus is now entirely in the hands of the Chinese. This happened because we wanted the port to be privatised. Can Mr Mulder also make some links between the pressure from Europe to privatise everything and the fact that there is also increasing dependence on Chinese money flows?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u104	That's not so much about privatising. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, even if you have to get the budget in order. But you have to take a look at and set conditions for the countries you're going to do business with. So it is not so much the privatisations, but the conditions that you impose on the countries with which you do business. That's the crux.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u105	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u106	Finally. Of course, when those countries were in financial trouble, they were happy that there was a pot of money next to China. In this respect, we have made these countries much more vulnerable. I hope there will be some recognition for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u107	Of course, these countries have done so themselves. In the future, if such a thing happens again and a country gets into financial trouble, we need to see what that means and to whom they could sell their ports and infrastructure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, all colleagues have already said: the Brexit circus is getting crazier each time. Eight variants have been discarded. By the way, I should like to congratulate Mr Drost on his beautiful maiden speech. I've learned a lot about it, so thank you very much for that. Back to the Brexit. In fact, there are still roughly four options left: no deal, which is still a dark cloud in the air despite the fact that no one wants it, a hard Brexit according to the May plan and the European Union for which no majority has yet been found, a softer variant through the customs union, which is now being looked at and which will probably be put to the vote again on Monday, or no Brexit, by way of elections or a referendum. In the previous debate on this subject, which was actually the pre-debate on the summit and this is the look-back debate, we have called for a longer delay per motion. I am also very pleased to read in the report that the cabinet has also wanted to keep this option on the table, thus implementing the motion and thus also reducing the sharpening and printing industry, which Mr Mulder seemed to be a bit in favour of. My party is saying: make sure that, if necessary, there is room for reflection. If necessary, delay generously so that a solution or a way out can be found in one way or another. How do you think the Prime Minister is showing the situation right now? What does he think will happen in the coming days, including his role and the role of the other Heads of Government? The preparation for a no deal must continue. What about the 50 critical drugs? Can the Prime Minister guarantee their availability? What about the assumption of people at customs, the NVWA and the Royal Marechaussee? We are working hard on this, but as a group we are looking forward to seeing how that will work. One final point concerning the Brexit: civil rights. We have indeed advocated a double nationality for the 100,000 Dutch in the United Kingdom. Another option to resolve this is to remove the part of civil rights that is already in the May and European Union deal when a no-deal situation arises. I would like a response from the cabinet. Mr President, then China, because that is absolutely a very important subject. Macron says we need to speak with one voice towards China. As far as D66 is concerned, this is above all one strategy from Europe towards China, because new technology in particular is changing geopolitical relations more and more. Then I think of 5G, artificial intelligence and quantum computing. These are all technologies that are increasingly affecting relations between countries. China and the United States are trying to become digital world leaders and Europe is going to get caught if we are not careful. A European strategy is therefore needed in the field of technology and its consequences. That strategy should consist of two things. First of all, how do we deal with the danger of espionage via foreign technology in our vital infrastructure? How do we check that? How do we make a good risk assessment? The example of Huawei and KPN in the Netherlands is of course very topical. How are we going to make sure that we test that technology, that we control those companies and make agreements about public access to their products? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. D66 wants a national technology framework, a demand package, a control system, to be able to test that foreign technology. Secondly, Europe must be able to secure a place in the digital arms race. What are we going to develop and what do we not want to depend on other countries and other continents? And how are we going to develop that ourselves? Is the cabinet in favour of a strategic technology agenda at European level? This issue will certainly be discussed further. Will the Prime Minister argue for this at another summit? Last but not least, Mr President, I come to the climate. I would almost say last but not least. The results of the Council conclusions were rather disappointing. Does the Prime Minister's commitment mean that at the next summit there will be more strength and progress from a leading group in Europe than is currently the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 20 minutes, until 3:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u111	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by saying to Mr Drost, also on behalf of the government, how pleasant it is to be able to cross swords here and wish him every success and to congratulate him on his fine contribution. I will come to a few more specific questions that have been asked, but it is good that Erasmus sounds here in this Chamber, in such an eloquence. Then here's what I'm gonna do. There have been quite a lot of questions that I have not actually been preparing. I'll get the answers to those questions right away. But then I'm going to read out answers, thinking "well, interesting, good to know," but I can't answer any follow-up question either. These are questions that have been asked about the circumstances surrounding Brexit. These questions lie in the field of trade ministers. I'm walking by briefly which questions I don't answer. Then you know that. There was a question about the state of play on medicines and medical devices. I realize the importance of this, let me say right away. There's no doubt at all that this wouldn't matter to me. But there was a confidential technical briefing at the beginning of March. An update was sent to the Chamber on March 19th. This is the subject of regular consultations between the Minister for Medical Care and the Chamber. I would like to refer to that. Once again, this is a retrospective debate on the European Council and it is not about medicines. But I understand the problem. I also understand the problem of the benchmarks. This point, of course, is also regularly raised in the consultations I may chair in the European Affairs Council. That's where we talk about all Brexit business on a regular basis. But I'm not an expert; I'm chairing that meeting. Mr President, I think I am inadequate, but at least I am not competent enough to answer all these questions here. I can say here that the questions that have been asked will be answered within the deadlines set. It's technical and detailed. Mr Omtzigt's questions need to be answered very precisely. But I can tell him that LNV is working on it right now, along with the Foreign Minister. Knowing what we are discussing in the meetings, the seriousness of it is well understood. The same applies to the exchange between police and justice. This is, first and foremost, a matter that lies in the field of Justice and Security and Home Affairs. It also applies to Mr Van Rooijen's 50PLUS questions on business concerns and a number of things he mentioned from the VNO. Those are all things that have to do with how you deal with Brexit. The KMar is, of course, with the Defense Department, but also with colleagues who are more concerned with security. On all these points, I do not think: 'Oh, now I hear something I did not know'. All these things are on the radar. But I have prepared myself for a look-back debate on the European Council. I would therefore ask that these points be discussed with the govern ments concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr President, this has been requested as a double debate: a look back at the European Council and at the Brexit, so these questions are on the agenda and I said so in advance. Now I understand that the Prime Minister says not to engage in extensive discussions, because it is not his core competence, but I would ask that these follow-up questions be answered in writing within a week, and we can continue to do so. Then he can talk it through with the right ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u115	Yeah, but not from me. They'll come from the Trade Minister. You really should submit it to the trade ministers. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u116	I'm asking you. I'm dealing with one government. We're dealing with a possible hard Brexit here. That is precisely why we have said that we are also going to ask a number of substantive questions. That is what I said in the regulation, and I said it in advance. That they cannot all be answered immediately in detail, I understand, but I had asked yesterday to take it into account in the support. Then I don't want to have to ask five more sets of written questions, because they'll pass by you again. These can just be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u117	I think I was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u118	A point of order, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u119	I would like to support Mr Omtzigt. We have had a whole discussion about coming with a lot of ministers or not. Then we said: we are doing it with the Prime Minister in this case, because he was at that summit, but we assume that he will be able to respond on behalf of the whole cabinet. That's how I saw that appointment. And then I also said that in its wisdom the cabinet could always decide to come with several ministers. I understand what the Prime Minister's saying, but actually that wasn't in line with the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u120	Good. Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr Omtzig's questions are important, that is not the point. We have said in the European Affairs Committee: let us, as the European Affairs Committee, keep to the Brexit and the negotiations and keep preparations for no deal with the specialist committees. Then Mr Omtzigt asked, last week or two weeks ago, for the scheme to do so. At that time there was no support for that, so twice no support, and now these questions are being asked in this way. It's not up to me to back up the Prime Minister, because he can do that himself, but that's how it happened. I think we should stick to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u122	I do agree with Mr Mulder. I think it's okay to ask one or two questions. That happens in every debate. We have often asked a question on which the Prime Minister said that he had not prepared it, but that he could answer it, but this was a whole bunch of expert committee questions. I don't think that's convenient. Let us focus on the Brexit and the European Summit and not all kinds of specialist committee questions, because they can really be put to the trade ministers by colleagues in the specialist committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u123	Let me take a look at Mr Van Rooijen. Does your comment relate to this? Very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u124	Well, not so much that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u125	Not on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u126	I would just like to respond to the Prime Minister's remark...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u127	No, not yet. First of all, because I think it's okay, everyone made a point, including you, Mr. Ommzigt. I assume that this debate will also be followed by officials from Agriculture or from VWS. Otherwise they will read in the Acts what has been said about this. I'm assuming they'll respond to that, too. In what way, I don't know, but then I want to close this point. But I see that Mr Omtzigt does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr President, I can agree with you. I also assume that it will just be responded to. We can do that in a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u129	Fine. Then this item is closed. Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. Chairman. I had another point. The Prime Minister replied to a question I asked about yesterday's letter from the employers. There is also a passage in which is general. Maybe he'd like to answer it. There the question was put, with all the uncertainties and problems, whether a general transitional arrangement of a few weeks would not be appropriate. Or maybe in second term. I think that is a general question that I can put to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u131	I just didn't understand this one. Do they mean a transitional arrangement of the Netherlands? Of course you can't. The Netherlands cannot have a transitional arrangement on its own. Then that has to be part of no deal, a bought result or a no deal with a certain landing. This must be part of Europe as a whole, but it cannot be the case that we, the Netherlands, are going to do something separately. We are, of course, again bound by European laws and regulations, also in the interests of the same employers, for the integrity of the internal market. I have seen this question: is the cabinet open to introducing a general transitional regime? I do not think that this is desirable or feasible. We try to prevent it from being necessary, by reaching a deal and by looking at how to limit the damage if there is no deal. But in the end, everyone has to comply with all the formalities. We have tried to make sure that the damage is reduced within all appropriate laws and regulations. Within national legislation, the Netherlands has done a lot with the Collecting Act. This has been the subject of intensive consultations, including with the Chamber. A specific transitional regime for Dutch industry, which does not apply to the rest of Europe, will not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u132	The Prime Minister mentioned the Collector's Act. Maybe to come back to this later: my question was whether the Netherlands itself would have the power, given the agreements, to have a transitional arrangement for a few weeks for pressing issues. Do countries, including the Netherlands, have that space, or is it possible to do so under the Collecting Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u133	If the question is asked in such a general way, the answer is no. This would be contrary to how we in Europe are all bound by European laws and regulations. There is sometimes room in there, but that can be seen by component, so how you deal with a crisis situation if it would occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u134	Then I suggest that you continue with the questions that were asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mr. Chairman. So questions have been asked about Brexit, one about the internal market, one about climate and a number of questions about China. These are also the issues we have to deal with at this European Council. I'll start Brexit. I agree with what Mr Drost said about the great importance of looking ahead to the future relationship with the United Kingdom. We want, as we know, as ambitious a new relationship as possible with the UK, obviously within all the framework conditions that we agree with each other. Those negotiations can only begin once the withdrawal agreement has been approved. That's the deal; those are the rules. You can't do that for that. The political statement has said a great deal about what this future relationship will look like, but you cannot negotiate beyond that political statement. You can't say: let's talk about the future relationship, because that might make it easier to reach an agreement. The two legally binding declarations agreed between Juncker and May in Strasbourg a few weeks ago also give more certainty about the future relationship and the route to it. It says, for example, that we start negotiations immediately after withdrawal and not wait until everything is legally settled to the last detail. However, this also applies to the fact that the future relationship will by definition be less profound than the current one, otherwise they would have stayed in the Union. That's how you try to limit the damage and make that relationship as rich as possible. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u136	I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for his reply and also for the compliment he gave me. My question was not so much about the route we are going to take after the Brexit is a fact, but about the way in which we are going to enter into negotiations with each other in the coming weeks. The tone we set over the next few weeks may also determine the tone in the subsequent negotiations. That is what my question was about: the way in which we are actually entering into negotiations over the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u137	The negotiations are now, of course, at a standstill. The outcome that lies must or should not be approved by the British, or they reject it and come before 12 April with how they want to proceed with us. Then there are all kinds of possibilities. If Mr Drost's general question is whether we want to do everything we can to maintain the atmosphere in those talks, the answer is yes. I think that is very important. I always try to keep the atmosphere right with everyone, but already with the British, but also with each other. Actually, that's pretty good. I didn't find the atmosphere uncomfortable last week, when Theresa May was in the meeting. But, of course, the problem is that all kinds of red lines have been drawn. Within these red lines, this declaration has now been drawn up. As long as those red lines don't move, I don't see how you're gonna fix it. Someone here has asked if you can't do a time limit on the backstop. That is not possible, because as soon as you record it in advance, you know that at some point there can be a hard limit in Ireland. Nobody wants that, because of all the reasons that also have to do with the Good Friday agreement. But of course: the intention is to keep the atmosphere as good as possible. Then the question is, what are the odds of a no deal? That opportunity remains real at the moment, I can only say to Mr Van Rooijen. We have now said: not next Friday, but 12 April and if they approve this week then even 22 May to carry out everything. That'll give you a little air. Mr Mulder asked why the choice was made on 12 April. 12 April is about the last moment that the British will be able to announce legislation in order to participate in the European elections. If they want a very long delay, they must therefore participate in the European elections because from 1 July or 30 June the British will be in breach of the European Treaty if they do not have their delegation to the European Parliament. Then you could say: start an intergroup procedure and it will take a few years. But it is much worse that the whole of the European Parliament will not be able to meet from 1 July; that is not legal. As from 22 May, there will be another problem if they do not extend, because they should have organised elections from 22 May and they do not organise them as a Member State. That is why it is not possible to postpone until 30 June, but that is a stage where you might be able to settle something with a heavy fine. But the point is that from 30 June, then, one of the institutions of the European Union is simply not legal. So that's why 12 April is so important because if 12 April doesn't decide to participate in European elections, you know that the deadline is actually 22 May. If you say "let them pay a heavy fine for violating the treaty," it's 30 June, but not after that. Then it really stops. So it actually stops on May 22nd, because I'm a VVD man: you can't be against the law. You know that. Yes, GroenLinks is more liberal in that, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u138	That's entrapment, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u139	No, I'll take care of it in a minute. Indeed, any civil disobedience is not strange to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u140	You have to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u141	I wasn't quite paying attention. Do I understand that the Prime Minister says that there is basically a possibility that it will be later than 22 May but that a fine will have to be paid? I wonder whether there is a legal problem at all with the elections of the European Parliament as a whole, in the sense that they can be declared invalid on a given point. Or isn't that an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u142	You run that risk, and that's why nobody wants to go past May 22nd. The hardest date is 1 July, because then the European Parliament simply cannot get together. So one of the institutions of the Union cannot function if you do not sit on 1 July that British quota and at that time the British would still be a member of the Union. But quite honestly: May 22nd is just a hard death line, because after that you are just in conflict with all kinds of legal things. Suppose, in the next few weeks, the British will adopt the whole agreement and need a week longer than 22 May, then there may be a sleeve to be adjusted, but there is no sleeve to be adjusted to 30 June. Unless they decide to participate on April 12th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u143	I saw a focus on a fine, as we know the Prime Minister, and indeed I wanted to raise this legal point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u144	But it's legally perfectly correct and so May 22nd is just the hard death line. If 22 May all the laws are through the House of Commons but the House of Lords still has a problem somewhere, then you can do something for a few days, but you cannot pass 30 June, because then the European Parliament cannot meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u145	It was clear that the Heads of Government Wednesday night, I believe, or was it Thursday night...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u146	Thursday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u147	...have long had time to establish this with each other. So it's like this: or April 12th a no deal or May 22nd out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u148	No, no, that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u149	But they must have agreed by April 12, right? And if they don't agree, they're out on April 12th with a no deal, right? Or does that no deal move to May 22?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u150	No, no, that's not right either. We actually said two things. If you approve the waiver, you will have until May 22 to implement it legally and technically in England in legislation. If you don't, we need to know what you want by April 12th. That's what we said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u151	In addition, there is also room for the situation that Britain would decide to participate in the European elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u152	Yeah, sure. And if they indicate what they do want, you can take your time for that too. That could be true. But the point for all these things is actually as follows. I have heard many of you ask: yes, but why are European Heads of Government not being more flexible? Look, we're in between book braces. One is that the British have said: we want to get out, but we do not want to join the customs union. That is actually the most important thing they have said, but they have also said: "We do not want future membership of the internal market. We don't want any of that." That's how they drew the red lines they pulled. And the second book support is that we say, "Finally, you are in the European elections or not. And if you don't participate, you can't extend until after 1 July."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u153	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u154	May I conclude, then, that a much longer delay has actually been granted? Because it has simply been said that we want to know before 12 April whether you are in the European elections or not. And if they don't participate, they'll be out on May 22nd. And if they do, they'll stay in for a lot longer. Do I have to conclude that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u155	Well, I'm gonna take it off, as Wouter Koolmies would say. For starters, Theresa May sent a letter. She said, "Joh, listen. What if we say yes? Then we need more time than until 29 March to incorporate it all into British legislation. Just give me an extension until June 30th." That's what she said. Then we said: 'That is impossible, because from 22 May you will be in breach of the Treaty, because you would have had to organise elections as a Member State. So we're doing May 22." She said, "Well, okay, that's all right. Then I have to do it a little faster, but in those eight weeks it should be possible." The second is that we said to her at the time, and she said yes to that, is: 'If this week the British Parliament does not say yes to the Treaty of Accession, then come up with a plan for what you want, and come up with it before 12 April. Because part of that plan could be that you decide to participate in the European elections, so that you can also ask for a much longer delay." But that's all up to the British. And there's nothing we can do except say, "We have those red lines, and if you don't move... You can also ask for a delay." But that's got to be from the British. There's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u156	I understand that it is difficult to speak with all those scenarios that are not yet clear, but I would like to highlight two things. One. What if something doesn't happen before 12 April, which provides clarity within that framework of "tell us what you want before 12 April so that we know what needs to be done." That'll take eight weeks. So if there is no concrete proposal that you will then be working on during the eight weeks before 22 May, then it seems that at some point there will be a road where either a second referendum or elections will take place. Would the Prime Minister see that as a new fact, allowing the British to ask for a longer delay? That's important to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u157	Wait a minute. If the British do nothing at all after today, then April 12th is the hard-brexit date: then March 29th, April 12th. What we hope is that they either say yes to the Treaty of Accession and then you have until 22 May to implement it, or that they say: we say no to it, but we want something else. So we said to the British: "You have to sketch what you want by April 12 at the latest. At least if you don't say yes to the treaty now, because if you say yes to it, you'll have until May 22." That's last week's conclusion. But they have to name it. If they say they're going to do elections or hold a referendum or I don't know... But I'm not gonna speculate on any of it. I can only name the options. We can all name them. But I am not even going to describe the desirability here, because then I will interfere with internal British politics. But then there is a new relevant fact that we have to consider. So one thing is very important, namely the following. If not also part of such a movement they might make a red line more liquid, or that they might say that they want to join the customs union in the future, or a form of a customs union, a Norway model, a Norway-plus or I don't know... It's all possible. And if that calls for a new more fundamental consideration of the political declaration, then it will be possible for them to say that they will also be participating in the European elections. But that, of course, depends on where the movement is. And there are so many options for that. At the moment, we have to start from what we know, and what we know is that the British have not yet said yes to the Treaty of Accession, and the default is: April 12th, hard Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u158	I get it. Thank you. I also know that we should not discuss all kinds of desirable scenarios. I am not in favour of that either. But on the other hand we are standing here as a Chamber at the next moment that there is another summit perhaps to conclude that we were too late. So it is good to think a little ahead, I say to colleagues and to the Prime Minister himself. The Customs Union is still a serious option, which was eight votes short yesterday, and then that was a possibility. A second referendum was also close to that. And May's deal is still on the table. That's kind of the three main scenarios now. If the three main scenarios take place, there are two where that could be workable on 22 May, or a slightly longer delay, and then they will participate in the elections. But if in a referendum or in elections the British ask for more delay, what does the Prime Minister say? Does he say that that should be negotiable, provided that the British ask for it? Or does he say: no, that is not feasible in the European Council? That is always my point, that I am afraid that the European Council is so caught up in a kind of sharpening situation that they say: 'No, now we are done with you... 'I hear Mr Mulder echoing a bit '... we really want to put some pressure on the kettle and you have to get out now with a no deal'. The reason why no deal is still on the table, in my opinion, is not so much because the British want it, not at all, but because there seems to be some sort of feeling with some European leaders, but perhaps I am completely wrong, hear those who might put pressure on it at some point. And that's what I'm trying to prevent. That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u159	I'm not really afraid of that. I can't look all the way in the head. I think there is irritation on the European side, namely that there will be no answer from London, but not what they want either. And that is why I am very pleased that it is now explicitly stated in that conclusion, not only on 12 April, because that is also the last date that you can organise European elections, but also: if the Treaty of Accession has not been adopted, then what do you want? That they name it, that they tell them what they want. Then there is an endless range of possibilities, and at least they will be conditional, if they want something that takes a lot of time, that it is said: we are also going to organise the European elections, because there is a hard legal point there, that the European Parliament must, of course, be able to function from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u160	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u161	Clear. As far as I am concerned, the British will continue to participate in the European elections forever. And that they are participating in the colossal European elections, if necessary, I think is excellent. I think this is a clear line. I'm glad. As the European Council, let us not make the mistake that we are the ones who put the knife to the throat, or the gun to the chest, which makes a no deal, whereas the British do not want it at all. Because then the reverse situation is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u162	No, we're one knife to the throat... Well, neither did I. But one leverage is, "Come up with what you want."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u163	Yeah, that could also be a long-term variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u164	Yeah, I think so. I can't say that for everyone, but Mr Verhoeven asked me: "Are you worried about that?'. I think, if they come up with a well-founded plan, which takes more time, and they also participate in the European elections, that that will be looked at in a serious way. That's my expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u165	Another point, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u166	I welcome the detailed explanation given by the Prime Minister. There is still more and more information about what might happen. I had explicitly asked the Prime Minister what would happen if yesterday's vote didn't make it on Monday... What if on Monday the customs union was going to make it, does that mean that they will be able to participate in the European elections, but that there will also be a longer delay to work it all out? That would have huge, I would say, positive consequences. So a simple acceptance of that customs union, for which only eight votes were short, perhaps it will be there next week plus nine, then it will come through with great consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u167	Yes, potential, but then of course you also come into a whole "what if" because then the question comes to mind: what is the advantage that they do? The advantage could then be that participation in a form of customs union would make the whole issue of the backstop a little clearer. It is not entirely gone, but then you can change the political statement accordingly. Then you can offer perspective. The opponents of that backstop then know that the chances of it coming into effect are less. The opponents will say: 'We cannot just conclude free trade agreements with the whole world', but I never understood that point, because of course they always become less beautiful than the free trade agreements that Europe concludes. So why would you want it at all? But okay, that's a lot in this Brexit discussion, that you don't quite understand why they do what they do. But that will be the counter argument. But if that means 'we really need to look at all the pieces again', then the question may also arise as to what that means for the European elections, or else you will have to settle it before 22 May. So it's both content and timing that they have to say what they want. Preferably, I would say, that is the shortest blow, they say yes to the Treaty of Accession. Of course, that would be the best thing, because then we're just done. Because that is an excellent treaty in itself. There's nothing wrong with that. If they later decide to reflect on a customs union, that is fine. Then that part of the future relationship becomes how you're gonna fill it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u168	So far, it's kind of like a deal or no deal. But do you now feel that this crack, which was made last week, is an intermediate solution? As a result, a customs union or some other form, but in particular this one, could open up the whole story again to longer scenarios, which means that we are no longer thinking in black and white. On Monday, therefore, an important step can be taken by the crack, which you seem to have made clear with colleagues last week. You guys do that, while it's a little bit out of the picture: well, it's a deal now or no deal and April 12th or May 22nd. So there is actually another date, much later, when the customs union comes through on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u169	Now we are going to find that and I do not think I am helping anyone in Britain who is of good will by speculating on it for too long. So I leave this whole point in the best traditions of the British House of Cards: "You might very well think that; I couldn't possibly comment."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u170	There you are again, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u171	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I asked the Prime Minister: two weeks have been granted and if nothing changes, is it on 12 April no deal? Then he said no. Then I asked: has there actually been any delay and should they only say what they want before 12 April? It wasn't exactly. I understand that 22 May was elected because after the elections they will not be able to say 'we want to postpone for longer', because then the elections to the European Parliament will be invalid. I get that. But what's on April 12th?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u172	That 22 May is linked to a yes to the Treaty of Accession: they will have until 22 May to legally transpose it into British law. If they do not, then Europe's question is: come up with what you want before 12 April. If nothing happens, April 12th is the hard Brexit date. That's how it works. Mr President, the strength of these debates is, of course, always that many questions have now been answered. I'm just gonna take a quick look to make sure I don't fail someone. Very many questions have been answered which relate to the legal side, but not all questions, because Mr Asscher had another question about citizens' rights. We fully agree, I think, that this is a top priority for the Dutch Government and the rest of the European Union, was and remains in the Brexit negotiations. It is very annoying, and I regret that, because of the political differences that still exist within the UK, we are not yet able to give absolute certainty about the status of residence after the Brexit date. The point here is that the Brexit Agreement is one comprehensive package with the aim of an orderly withdrawal of the UK from the European Union. So everything is now aimed at getting that agreement through, because that offers the best guarantees of safeguarding citizens' rights. The conclusion of mini-deals, for example on civil rights, is not possible right now. You cannot conclude such a mini-deal pending the treatment of the withdrawal agreement. I do not think that is desirable either, because that would mean that it has apparently already failed. We provide a decent solution for citizens in a no-deal scenario. As is well known, UK citizens can continue to live, work and study in the Netherlands. They are also exempted from the integration requirements. This arrangement is generous and also in line with the principles of the withdrawal agreement. On the UK side, commitments have been made on the right of residence for EU citizens in the UK and we assume that they will also be respected. Everything now focuses on the ratification of the withdrawal agreement. If that is off the table or if there is a new situation, we must, of course, reconsider it. But we can't make a mini-deal right now. That is actually the conclusion on civil rights. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Asscher that the Brexit is not a earning model. We are not going to relax the bonus rules; we do not adapt them for the Brexit. This means that banks must follow European and Dutch rules if they are to settle in the Netherlands. And indeed, we cannot prevent many Japanese and Indian companies from saying: The Netherlands is the second market we are in contact with and so we come to the Netherlands. And those jobs are, of course, welcome. But there is so much misery about Brexit that I would have preferred not to have seen it and the UK simply would have preferred to have kept it in the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u173	Clear and a fair verdict. The question of how he then qualified the statements of Hamers, who apparently thought this was a good time to advertise that point again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u174	Actually, I don't want to review it. He has made a factual observation, which I think is actually true, that the Netherlands is now scoring less when it comes to banking-like jobs in the Netherlands because we have much stricter bonus legislation than other countries. That is a fact. Fortunately, we are doing very well in other sectors. The EEA comes to Amsterdam and you name it, but we score less specifically in the financial sector. That may well have something to do with our bonus rules, as I hear from the financial sector. They are what they are. We are not going to change it for that, so that remains a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u175	That is possible, but it is also, of course, about the value you attach to it. If I listened to the Prime Minister properly at first, he also said on behalf of the Dutch government: "It is good that these rules are so strict after everything that has happened. We're not reopening that discussion. People who want to work here are welcome, but at a fantastic salary but with slightly less high bonuses than elsewhere."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u176	That summary is from a to z correct, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u177	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u178	Then I'll take a look at Brexit. I think I answered the Brexit questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u179	In the run-up to such a summit, you see all kinds of Heads of Government making statements. One said "we'll embrace delay." The other said 'I will oppose postponement', including the Prime Minister of France, Mr Macron. I asked a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u180	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u181	But, yes, I finally have to work with the conclusions that we draw from each other. Macron agrees with the conclusions we have drawn. I've spoken to him myself a few times and margin. I have understood all this quite differently from what was reported here and there in the media, but I want to avoid becoming the Macron whisperer here. So I have to do it with the conclusions we have drawn. That's a delay until 22 May if they agree, and until 12 April, and then tell them what you want if they don't agree to the exit agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u182	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u183	Okay. Earlier, the Prime Minister said here in this room that Macron had been inciting, but that did not happen at this summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u184	I really don't know where I said that. But if Mrs Leijten claims that with her fantastic memory, I'm sure that's true. But I need to check with Caroline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u185	So that was also a Caroline moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u186	I'll tip Caroline right away. That was the debate in October before the European summit. In it, the Prime Minister said it was "inflammatory," which is the translation of "incendiary."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u187	Yeah, inflammatory. Yeah, I don't... "Incendiary" is something else. "Inflammatory" is perhaps a point with just a little more emphasis inciting. At least I had that translation in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u188	"How am I gonna get out of this?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u189	It's a nice word, "inflammatory." Mr. Chairman. A question was asked about the internal market. The European Council called on the new Commission to present a new Single Market Action Plan by March next year at the latest. That has also been a Dutch point, not only of us, but also of us. I also look at Mona Keijzer's letter from the end of 2018. There has also been a letter from 17 Heads of Government, I thought from Finnish initiative, which I co-signed. The internal market is never finished. It is very important that we take all aspects together: industrial policy, including digital and services, and how does it relate to competition law. That must all be fact-based. The capital market union plays a major role in this. We have said it many times: if we do this smartly, we can add the Dutch economy to the European economy twice. About 1.5 trillion, 15,000 billion... Sorry, 1,500 billion we could add if we do that smartly. So that must be done, because these are just jobs: not money, but jobs. Then it's about climate. What the Netherlands wants is known: linking climate neutrality to a date, mid-century, so in 2050. It always goes step by step in Europe. The European Council has embraced this principle of climate neutrality. We'll talk about it in June. We also realise that a climate summit will be held at the UN in September, which is a step in the right direction. Of course, we will continue to focus on decision-making in June which is even more ambitious, at least as soon as possible. By 2020, we will have to submit the long-term strategy to the United Nations and also the new 2030 target. This is again relevant for the Dutch discussion. You know, the Netherlands is at 49, Europe, if you add up everything, at about 45 and eventually we do what Europe does, but if that's below 55, that's what we're actually gonna want then we're gonna try to tuck up with surrounding countries. That is how it was agreed in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u190	That agreement from the coalition agreement is clear. What is also clear is that the government made a commitment to this at the summit. This can be seen from the reports, including those from the other countries. That's right. But it didn't come entirely into the final statement. At least I have not been able to see a percentage in the final text of what the European countries want to come up with. Will there be another objective from the Council? The Commission has an objective, but the Council does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u191	Climate neutrality. We have agreed that we will do 2050 first and that we will distract 2030 from that. By 2020, we will have to adjust the 2030 target in the context of the adjustment of defined contributions from the regions and Member States. This must be done every five years in the context of the Paris process. To this end, we must first set the target of 2050. What we want is for Europe to commit itself to climate neutrality by 2050, in accordance with our coalition agreement. So that has not yet been achieved. Climate neutrality? Yeah, we did, but not with that date on it. That conversation needs to take place further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u192	It seems technical, but when you read the text, it says that climate neutrality must be regulated in the second half of this century. That could be 2051 and that could be 2099. That makes quite a difference, of course, for the path of the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u193	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u194	What's the best estimate when that's recorded? This also says something about national climate policy and how best to do it at European level. When can we expect these percentages so that we also know what is expected of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u195	For national policies, the 2030 target is relevant, because we are making a climate agreement based on the 2030 target. But, of course, this is also due to the ambition for 2050. The 2030 target is set for 2020, as it will need to be updated in the framework of the Paris agreements in 2015. So it has to be there next year. Europe has said that we want to do 2050 first and then deduce from it the 2030 target. So it has not yet been possible to establish climate neutrality by 2050; exactly what Mr Omtzigt says. That discussion is therefore continuing, as Mr Omtzigt rightly points out. So that has not yet been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u196	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u197	Finally, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u198	This means that next year in the Netherlands we are going to set a climate target for 2030, whereas the EU will not do so until 2020, probably after everything has been set here. Are we gonna change the target after that? How does the government see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u199	That's where the coalition agreement is leading. It's very precise about that. It says: we buried as long as we don't know anything else at 49; we actually want 55, but we buried at 49. This means, in the extreme case that it all works, that you need a top-up package if you are going to be higher than 49 in Europe. In any case, if Europe is not 55 or less than 55, we are going to try to go to the 55 with the surrounding countries. Eventually we will do what the surrounding countries do and we will try to make such an agreement with the surrounding countries when it is below 55. There may be a situation where you end up under 49 with the surrounding countries. That's possible, but that's all in line with the coalition agreement. That's nothing new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u200	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u201	China is the last, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u202	The last one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u203	Yes, the final point is China. There was a question about the foreign direct investments. They are at a very high level for Europe: around 800 billion. For the Netherlands they are at 1 to 3.7 billion, so that in itself is not that bad. However, there are, of course, major issues surrounding the relationship with China, which also offers opportunities. We should not be naive, but it also offers great opportunities. We discussed it for a long time at this European Council. The brief conclusions on this matter do not say much about the depth of the discussion. In the end, we talked about it for a long time that Friday, and rightly so. In itself, I do not mind at all that all Member States have their own bilateral relations with third countries at all. They may or may not be able to make legally binding agreements. The conclusion of trade agreements cannot, of course, be an EU competence. The Netherlands also makes agreements with China on all kinds of matters. We are, of course, always trying to ensure that they are complementary to EU policies. Italy's MoU does not have to be an objection in itself, provided that it fits in with what we as Europe are trying to align together in our policy towards China. There are more European countries that have closed such a MoU over the BRI, the Belt and Road Initiative. You can see it in the sixteen more Eastern European Member States, which have joint sessions. Moreover, I have already made comments on this and said that such meetings have risks. But then colleagues, for example the Prime Minister of Croatia or other countries, say: yes, but the chance that I will ever come to the table with the Prime Minister of China is small because of the size of my economy; every five years is a lot. I may succeed every two years, and the Germans and the French twice a year. We are not in the 16+1 initiative either. So I get that that's part of the game. China is the second economy in the world and is growing. Then, of course, it is important that you do that again, from the point of view of not being naive and realize how important that relationship with China is. I have confidence in that, too. The same applies to those 16 countries. I have no clue they won't. I also see the investments in Greece and Portugal. That's also relevant. I'll be in Portugal next Wednesday myself, at António Costa. Then we'll talk about that, too. But I have no reason whatsoever to believe that the Portuguese do not handle these investments in a sensible way. These investments in themselves should not be a problem if they fit in with a clear national and European strategy. I would like to speak briefly about 5G, but I also said that economic cooperation with China does not relieve the Member States of the rights and obligations of EU membership. It's important that we all realize what's going on. That is why the discussions in the European Council are so relevant. But there is no point in saying that we are closing the door to China and we are not doing business anymore. Mr. Chairman. Maybe one more point before I get to 5G separately. That is the issue of human rights. Of course, I also spoke about the issue of human rights, because it was still on the agenda here in the Chamber, but I think it would have done otherwise, because I always do it in my contacts with the Chinese. I also spoke specifically about the Uighurs in the European Council. There is, of course, also a dialogue between the European Union and China on human rights. The next EU-China human rights dialogue will take place early next week, 1 and 2 April. That also gives us the opportunity to discuss it. The Netherlands is at the international forefront of the issue of the human rights situation in Xinjiang. There have been two formal Dutch interventions at the UN Human Rights Council last March, supported by Canada, the UK and Germany. There has also been a side event of the United States. There Mr Bekali, who, on 27 March, here in this Chamber, spoke about his personal experiences in a reeducation centre. Last autumn, during China's country exam in the Human Rights Council, the Netherlands called on China to grant independent UN observers unhindered access to Xinjiang. So this is the point I made. Again, we always make that. Last year, when the Chinese Prime Minister visited us, we also discussed human rights in detail. This is always raised by the Netherlands, and we also have our own human rights dialogue with China.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u204	Good. I see a group of people from Enschede in the public gallery. Is that right? You're very welcome. By the way, welcome to everyone. They are from the rehabilitation centre Roessingh, and I think they are coming to see Mr Omtzigt's performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u205	Oh, I thought it was mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u206	That is why I am here, Madam President. I now have two questions. One is about human rights. I had not so much asked what the Netherlands is doing, but it is very good that I now hear this from the Prime Minister. I was particularly concerned about what has now been agreed in the European Union. What will the tone be? Is there also any evidence of opposition from other EU Member States, who may wish to remain silent on this issue? Does that have anything to do with the investments? Which brings me to the first question I actually wanted to ask. Of course, it is also important for me to make sure that critical infrastructure does not fall into the hands of countries such as China. So the question is: is the European Union sufficiently aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u207	First of all, we're on the verge of agreeing. I had a positive view of that in itself, before, after and during the meeting. The strategic vision of the European Union is thus welcomed by all Member States. We also all agree that this should be a starting point for the EU-China summit to take place on 9 April. In the conclusions you also see that concrete action points from that joint communication on 5G, for example, which I am talking about, but also on the protection of the internal market against unfair Chinese competition, have received explicit support from the whole of the European Council. We also agreed that we should speak with one voice about European values and that we should stand shoulder to shoulder. There was broad support for working with China on bilateral interests, including on global issues. I have once again stressed the importance of Europe becoming more international in any case, projecting itself much more on the world stage, with all the power and power we have from our internal market and our position in terms of investment in development cooperation and other issues. I also mention the military aid we offer in all parts of the world. We are the most powerful and largest trading bloc in world history. People want to do business with that. We must therefore use this position, even in the terms of power, simply hard force. I talked about "the principles of power" to "yes, principles, but also power," so both. So you can also open your jacket once in a while, close your jacket and show what resources you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u208	I always say: these are my principles and if you don't like them, I also have others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u209	I thought more: my way or the highway!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u210	It's all good. Of course, we as the European Union must act as a bloc there. I agree, but I had asked when something was against the interests of the European Union. What does the Prime Minister think of the fact that certain critical infrastructures come into Chinese hands, such as that port in Greece? What would happen if the water supply, which also had to be privatised, were in the same hands? So I actually wanted a little more reflection, and I had asked for that from the Prime Minister. When is something against the European interest now? I would like to make some basic statements and some examples, so that we can imagine a little more about the fine words that have been formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u211	In addition, I would like to avoid entering into a detective role about my colleagues. There are a few layers in the discussion. The first is: yes, we do business and we have an open relationship based on our European values and human rights, but not naive. So that's the first layer. Secondly, I note that we as the European Union agree on China's broad relationship and approach. That really was last Friday's conclusion. And then very specific about Chinese investments, for example in Greece and Portugal. It does start with the fact that I have confidence in those governments there, which have been democratically elected, in the prime ministers who have come to power there democratically, who are making their decisions in a sensible way within that broader EU strategy. I have no reason to believe that that is not right, as I have no reason to believe in advance that the MoU over the Belt and Road Initiative of Luxembourg or of Italy would not be good. Of course, we look at it, we measure all the signals and when necessary we talk behind the scenes and give a push in the right direction, but in general I have no reason to worry about that now. Even the purchase of certain infrastructure facilities in countries depends on what conditions there are and what agreements you make around them. Is it black and white: China now fully manages a piece of vital infrastructure without having to account for anything? Or should China simply comply with all the laws and regulations in that country? It depends on what's agreed on that. We are always trying to look at that, but we are confident that they are democratic governments in those countries in Europe that we are therefore not suspicious of as a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u212	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u213	That also brings us closer to home, to our own choices. I also gave the example of large terminals in the port of Rotterdam. 35% of them are in Chinese hands. That Chinese strategy that was meant to be very proactive, and where we now seem to be mainly post-active; when does it come? Are there any such considerations in that regard? For example, with the British, the nuclear power plant is now largely in China's hands. Half of the nuclear waste in Europe is in Chinese hands. Is there some sort of tracking in Europe and in the Netherlands so that we really have what is in which hands, where we can analyse to see if we really want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u214	Yes, where it's not black and white, but where you try to look at it at all times, and also not to be naive and realize that China's final strategy is that they also have an interest in making sustainable long-term investments and not causing damage. So there are also big interests that converge very often, but you should not be naive and you should look at it on a case-by-case basis, from a clear balancing framework, which is partly European, as we established on Friday. The Netherlands is also looking at it. We want to come up with our China strategy before the summer; as soon as possible. Maybe I can say something about 5G in that context. I don't have to explain to you how important 5G is. We support a European approach to the security of 5G networks, which I asked for last week. We welcome the Commission's communication and the recommendation for a coordinated European approach. That's the deal we made last week. This also fits with the Dutch approach. It first looks at the most sensitive points in the network and the development and sharing of best practices. In the end, national considerations can also be made. Of course. This reservation is always there, possibly in anticipation of or in line with European measures, if that is deemed necessary. To this end, the Cabinet also maintains close contact with all relevant parties. Then there is Mr Asscher's question about Sustainable Development Goals. Of course, we're all committed to that. The discussion paper Towards a sustainable Europe in 2030 was published by the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Timmermans, on 31 January. The Chamber has also received a BNC-fiche on this subject. In line with the Asscher/Jetts motion, we are ambitious in this respect, including "to achieve an overall implementation strategy for the whole of the European Union." China is a very important partner, as Mr Asscher asked that question. This is also recognised in the recent communication from the European Commission, which I mentioned, on the relationship between the European Union and China. This means that the principles of the SDGs play a major role in this relationship between the European Union and China. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions about China. And then I have a few loose ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u215	Yes. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u216	I had also asked a question related to China and 5G, but it also goes beyond that. I was concerned with the global digital arms race, including on other technologies, such as artificial intelligence. China and the United States are very far away from that. There are really big developments. We hardly ever talk about this here, but I know that there is more and more talk about it in Europe. I think it is important for Europe to think about what we are going to do in this area, not to become dependent on other players in the world in the future, in accordance with 5G and China. That's a really important question. That is why I said earlier, when we were talking about China's strategy, that I think you should look beyond China and 5G. You have to look at all the technologies and the consequences for changing world relations, geopolitical relations and world economic power relations. What is the view of the European Council that was discussed at the last summit? Then it was on the agenda for China.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u217	Clear, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u218	I assume Macron also said there: let's look at artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u219	In general, everyone acknowledges that this is a development that is potentially of a gamechanging character, similar to the introduction of the Internet. AI is so big, so Europe must be on that. So let me take a look at the Dutch interest. Fortunately, we also play a role there. I was in Delfzijl yesterday. Fortunately, the Netherlands is one of the most important internet nodes in the world at the moment; both North Groningen and the region around Amsterdam, but there are more regions that really belong to the absolute top of the world in this respect. That's what you need, too, fiber, and everything that's related to it, to be able to act on AI. We have not reached a comprehensive agreement on this, but I can assure Mr Verhoeven that this is a top priority for me, for this cabinet, for Ingrid van Engelshoven, for Eric Wiebes, for everyone involved in competition and research. What happens to quantum computing in Delft up to and including artificial intelligence, we absolutely must not miss that boat. The Netherlands has everything to do with it. This applies both to companies and to infrastructure, but we have to do it smartly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u220	Those are absolutely beautiful words. For example, for the internet node, Internet cables are now being pulled from the United States under the sea. They're all coming into the Netherlands now. This is now also the subject of a tough competition. Other countries are also working hard to attract such things. So there is competition within Europe too. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that the Netherlands is really playing a very compelling and exciting role in this broader area at European meetings in the near future, as the Prime Minister, at least, outlines in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u221	I can absolutely agree that that is my intention. We will. This confirms that strategy. Absolutely. It also inspires to continue with that. Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions that were actually outside the scope of this debate. Very briefly. MFF is back on the agenda of 9 April. It will be discussed in general consultations on 2 April. There are no new developments to report now. Sophia really wasn't on the agenda last week. In the context of the look-back debate, therefore, I cannot make any further comments on this, but I can imagine that this will be discussed again in a debate with the relevant rulers. The same applies to the situation with the Italian banks. It wasn't on the agenda either. Social security has been a debate on Tuesday. I do not have any further information on this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u222	Mrs Leijten, do you miss an answer to one of your questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u223	I would like to ask a question about the export WW. It is true that there was a debate on this on Tuesday, and that was also discussed yesterday in the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u224	And a motion has been passed on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u225	Yes, of course, but yesterday it was decided that today a working group will look at the many questions raised by countries which do not really like the extension of the export WW. But Romania has also decided that the EU ambassadors will decide on the extension tomorrow. So we can still pull the emergency brake. I would like a positive response from the Prime Minister, namely that we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u226	Mr Koolmees has already said something about the emergency brake system, and I fully agree with that. So there is nothing new in the development that would lead to a different weighting on that emergency brake. And furthermore: these kinds of files are always on the move, of course. Again, that is separate from the emergency brake, yes or no; for that I refer to Koolmees. There's no other news about that. Yesterday, Coreper found that there was no qualified majority. There's a new vote tomorrow. So the image is slightly more favourable, but we are certainly not safe yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u227	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u228	Mr Koolmees has argued here that there would be no point in pulling the emergency brake. Apparently, there is a group of countries that do not like this extension at all. I do not understand why the Netherlands cannot simply say: and now we are taking the final step; we are pulling that emergency brake. Because that might still be effective. Mr Koolmees has failed. He sketched an image on Tuesday that was different from what turned out to be yesterday. I would like to avoid any decision being taken tomorrow by the EU ambassadors. So I'll be filing a motion in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u229	There is nothing new compared to Tuesday, other than that this dossier is still under development, but that is completely unrelated to the desirability of the emergency brake. So everything that Koolmees has said about that still applies exactly the same, from a to z.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u230	Only very briefly with regard to KPN and Huawei: that was, of course, part of my fear that the Dutch government is lagging behind rather than taking the lead. I wonder how the Prime Minister looks at that. Are the proper frameworks outlined for KPN to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u231	As part of Europe's China strategy, I have now prepared how we approach the issue of 5G with each other, also in relation to China. I replied. The cabinet is also working on the analysis of the telecom networks. Our intention is to be done with this on 15 July, but I now have nothing new to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u232	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u233	Yeah, finally. That's July 15th. It is now said that KPN is ready to sign a contract with Huawei. That is what I said in my first term. However, I am concerned that in June or July the cabinet will come up with something that is really mustard after the meal. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to take a more active look at this. That may not have to be done here during his reply, but it does have to be done outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u234	We will. Only, I haven't prepared for that in detail right now. Of course, we are very active on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u235	I have two questions. Do I just hear the Prime Minister say that there was a vote yesterday on the WW benefit, but that there is no qualified majority yet and that is why there is another vote tomorrow? Or did I just misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u236	The facts are that yesterday there was no qualified majority in the Coreper network and there will be a new vote tomorrow. The picture is therefore slightly more favourable, but the outcome is still very uncertain. But that is completely unrelated to the desirability of this emergency brake, because that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u237	Yes, the desirability of the emergency brake is something other than the use of it, I think two days ago, Mr. Koolmees told me. But I was actually wondering: why is there this systematic refusal to use the few resources we have left in the European context? For we saw it earlier with the debate on the new division of seats in the European Parliament. The Brexit meant -73 British seats. We would decide that unanimously. That was the cabinet's commitment. And then Mr. Blok comes back with the story: well, there was no support for it, but we didn't put in our veto, because we have to work loyally together. We see it with the debate on the multiannual budget. And now we see it here again. Now we have a cure. What's with the systematic refusal to use that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u238	The whole debate on the emergency brake was held on Tuesday. I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u239	We shall now proceed to the second term of office, if Mr Omtzigt does not have a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u240	Can I see from that answer that the dramatic situation of Italy, the country where the budget is now going through the 3%, where the banking system is reasonably broken and where we could still have a problem at the end of this year, was not discussed at the European Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u241	I discussed this with the President of the Commission. That's what you saw in the letter this morning. But it wasn't on the agenda. No, I didn't. I can't make that agenda either. That's what makes the chairman. It's not my call, but I'll deal with what I do and margin. And I have asked the President of the European Commission to make this statement, and I say it out of my mind, confidential calculations. A letter with the state of play I have read was sent this morning. I think Stef Blok sent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u242	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u243	No, but that letter was clear. Minister Blok said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u244	Minister Blok is the Minister of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u245	Yes, the Secretary of State. He said: if it comes out next week, then the government writes "That's the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs." It's nice that the government thinks the WOB is so important. That can happen more often, I think. And it is good that he has raised it with Commission President Juncker, but I would like to conclude that there has been no mention of one of the greatest problems in the Union. Mr Van Rooijen also mentioned the major problem with Italy regarding the budget, the deficits and the possible ESM application.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u246	I am not going on the agenda of the European Council alone. That is what we do collectively, and that is what the President-in-Office of the European Council is doing in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u247	Clear. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I don't know if we're in the same order? Mr Omtzigt, it is your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the government's response. I await with great interest the answers from the departments. We have had a whole debate here about what they are going to do in Britain. Well, I guess we don't just know that here, but they don't even know that in the British Parliament. And I can't help but be amazed at that. This is now going to bring real costs for the other countries. I think that should be clear in Britain. I am very concerned about Italy and will continue to make that point. If the Eurowob does not produce anything, I expect that letter from the cabinet to the Commission next week to simply make the secret calculations public. Because how can you approve Italy's budget? We'll regret that later this year, I'm guessing. I am also waiting with great interest for the answers to the questions about the checkpoint. If there is no operational checkpoint after the Brexit, then we really have a problem with all our exports of agriculture and horticulture. We wouldn't want that. A motion on the particularly bad situation of the Uighurs in China will be tabled later in this debate by the spokesperson of the Labour Party. I co-signed it. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the exchange of police records. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of a no-dealbrexit, existing EU instruments such as the Schengen Information System (SIS) and the European Criminal Register Information System (ECRIS) are no longer applicable in cooperation between European and UK police, justice and intelligence services;]] [[Whereas the legal basis for such exchange of information should also be abolished;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that both the Treaty-law basis for this real-time information provision and alternative systems of information exchange between the UK and the Netherlands are settled after the Brexit, and to inform the Chamber in good time how this is achieved, for the Brexit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-335]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u249	Thank you, Madam President. I'm just trying to remember how it went. I don't have history in mind anymore, but I know that when the United Kingdom joined, not all Members also joined the European Parliament, because they were waiting for a referendum first. I am now afraid of another messy situation, as the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. Then again, we are dealing with exactly how the European elections will turn out. So I am very curious to see how things are going next week. But there's nothing else we can say about that. There are still a number of questions. For example, I asked a question about the word'systemic', which was used by the European Commission. I'd like to know exactly how the Prime Minister sees it. With regard to China, the Prime Minister was quite right to say that a great deal depends on the conditions under which you are going to make investments. I think that's true, too. But then they are also conditions such as: what is critical infrastructure, what do you want with it? Do you also keep track, somehow, of the importance of China in that infrastructure? I still want to know a little better. Are conditions also being considered at European level, for example the condition that data remain in European hands as much as possible? This has to do with a point that Mr Verhoeven has just raised. It's not just about protecting your market, it's about building something yourself. And for that you will need enough data, otherwise you will depend on the data giants in China or in America. How do we ensure that we actually keep those data in our own hands, so that we can also strengthen our own economy with that artificial intelligence? That's really a concern I have. I hope that this is also part of the European agreement and the reflection on relations with China.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u250	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three points. We would like to have an answer to the question about Tusk's statements. He actually spoke for his turn, even before the Heads of Government had formed their opinions. So I'd like to get a reaction to that. The second point concerns the seriousness of the benchmarks we have. The Prime Minister referred to that as well. He also said that we should be with the Dutch trade ministers. Our question was also how it was done in England with the benchmarks, because we also export the necessary living have to England. Can we ask the Prime Minister about this situation, or should we also be with a trade minister? If so, we'd like to know which one that is. Finally, we have learned that 12 April could be a no-deal date. In their report, the House of Representatives' rapporteurs make it clear that a no deal creates a hard physical limit. That poses a threat to the return of violence. That is something everyone on the Irish island absolutely wants to avoid. The reintroduction of border controls leads to a new vicious circle of violence. Surely that gives us a special responsibility, including on the part of Europe, to make a good deal. I was gonna give that to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u252	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr. Chairman. I still think it's a little vague what's been decided now. Do we have a no-deal voltage, rising until April 12th? That's what the Prime Minister actually says "no." But we do, because if they don't decide and don't say "we stay in," they'll be gone on April 13 without any appointments, so we still have the no deal. Otherwise, they can bridge the time until May 22nd and then they're gone. But there may also be something that they will always be. What exactly has been agreed? We have the tool in our toolbox to say to the European Commission: ho, ho, ho, ho, that's not what you're talking about! For that we have Article 48: the emergency braking procedure. You can use them to ensure that a decision is taken by the European Council. Minister Koolmees said that there is no point in using that instrument in the export WW, because the voting ratio is fixed and we are going to lose that. The voting ratio wasn't fixed at all. It's not through yet. Romania is in a hurry and wants to conclude tomorrow. We can still pull the emergency brake, which is why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use the emergency braking procedure for the renewal of the export WW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-336]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u254	One more request to the Prime Minister. He says: the decision to stop the mission on the Mediterranean, and thus saving people from drowning, was not on the agenda. But the result is that now only the Libyan Coast Guard is doing so and that people are being sent to an unsafe country. That's contrary to the Refugee Convention. I ask the government to come forward with a response within a day or two days, but at least before Tuesday. Where has that been decided and when will there be real alternatives to settle this properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u255	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answers. It is important for our government to continue its efforts to ensure that the British leave the European Union, if possible wisely, in the most business-like manner possible, and also to ensure that they are delayed and creative. Because those self-imposed deadlines, no matter how logical, can lead to further accidents. In this respect, it is sad that there are parties in the Netherlands that continue to propagate that the Netherlands is better off outside the European Union. The Union must change and become more social, more modern and more democratic, but the idea that you are better off on your own at this time and that you will keep all the benefits and that the disadvantages will automatically disappear has proved to be a lie! And that proves even a larger country than the Netherlands. Mr President, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering, inter alia, that the High Commissioner for Human Rights has expressed serious concerns about the human rights situation in China and that in the region of Xinjiang alone around 1 million Uighurs are in camps for "political education";]] [[Notes that China denies allegations of serious human rights violations, including those in Xinjiang, and does not respond to calls for access to the area;]] [[calls on the Government to advocate at European level that the EU-China Summit should include the admission of an independent international committee of inquiry into the situation of the Uighurs among others,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Kuzu, Mr Leijten, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Drost, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Raan, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Verhoeven.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u257	Mr President, thank you. While the United Kingdom is still trying to escape from the European Union, the train continues and vetos are being given up and the cabinet constantly refuses to use the resources we have left, such as vetos and emergency brakes. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to announce a new, Dutch departure from the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-338]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. We have confidence in the approach, also on the basis of those answers. We like to be informed about the progress. We wish the Prime Minister a great deal of wisdom and perhaps a little patience with the British, because whatever happens, it is a good thing that we are finally moving forward together. We support Mr Asscher's motion because it is in line with our fight for freedom of religion and human rights. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u259	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I now turn to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u260	Mr. Chairman. On Tuesday, the House of Representatives unanimously sent a distress signal to Brussels about the export WW. In any event, the pressure exerted yesterday did not lead to a decision detrimental to our country. And I would like to express the wish here that the Prime Minister, with all his experience and all his might, may have been able to use that word himself earlier, so that there will be no decision tomorrow or at least no qualified majority. We'll have to wait and see. Mr. Chairman. In that connection, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at European level, measures are at risk of widening the scope for WW exports;]] [[Whereas WW exports undermine social security and European Union support;]] [[whereas the Dutch government, in cooperation with employers and the UWV, plays a crucial role in this issue;]] [[calls on the Government to use all possible measures that can be taken within the Netherlands to prevent exports of WW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-339]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u261	No, I'm not. Go get 'em!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u262	Most of the time, they don't say, "Hurry up," they say, "put it on."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u263	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u264	I could use some support in this difficult job. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions for resolutions and I have also heard that I can add my name to a motion, namely Mr Asscher's. So I would like to be added to Mr Asscher's motion, if that's all right, and if that's all right with Mr Asscher. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas technologies such as artificial intelligence and 5G increasingly determine economic and geopolitical relations in the world;]] [[Whereas China and the US are investing heavily in these technologies;]] [[Whereas Europe should not become dependent and should retain certain technologies in its own hands;]] [[Considers that the EU needs its own technology agenda which makes it clear for which technology the EU should not depend on foreign players and includes an action plan to develop these technologies in the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to promote this European Strategic Technology Agenda at the next Competitiveness Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-340]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u265	Mr. Chairman. Another motion on civil rights. I welcome the commitment of the Dutch Government, but I think that is what I have always said, and I have always said that more needs to be done to provide real security for the people when things are in danger of going completely wrong. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that following the vote in the House of Commons on the Brexit scenarios, the risk of the no-deal scenario increased;]] [[Whereas, despite the fact that the Dutch Government takes the right of residence seriously for British citizens in the Netherlands, the many EU citizens in the United Kingdom, including thousands of Dutch citizens, in the case of a no-dealbrexit for protecting their rights, are at the mercy of the British Government;]] [[considers that the civil rights section of the Brexit Treaty provides a reciprocal basis to protect the civil rights of the Dutch in the UK and British in Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to decoupling the civil rights section of the Treaty of Accession if the no-deal scenario becomes inevitable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u266	I ask everyone in the Chamber to sit down again, and I will first give the Prime Minister the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr. Chairman. You may have seen it as well: the intensely sad news came out that after more than a week between hope and fear, one of the seriously injured victims of the attack in Utrecht died today. That was announced this afternoon. I think that at the moment we all feel the same as last week: the unbelief, the anger. In the meantime, four people have suddenly been taken out of life. My mind, our mind really dwells on this thought. Of course, our hearts go out and our thoughts go out to the next of kin. I want to wish them all the strength and strength again from this place, but certainly also with today's sad news, in order to bear this great loss. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few things from the debate in the Chamber before I get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u268	Before proceeding, I would also like to join the words you have just said on behalf of the Chamber. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u269	Yes, Mr. Chairman. There was a question about the name "system-rival." I also said at the press conference on Friday after the European Council that I would not say that kind of words myself. What is true, of course, is that China's positions on, for example, the rules-based multilateral world order can also conflict with those of the European Union, whereas cooperation with China is very important and also encourages us to continue investing in our own multilateral links as we know it, which have often been the result of post-war transatlantic cooperation. I call it the IMF, the World Box, but also, of course, the United Nations, the WTO. What you don't want is for a whole system of multilateral organisations to emerge from one country, from China now. That is why strategic policy towards China is so important. At the same time, it is dialogue again. It's open relationships, it's doing business with each other and continuing to emphasise human rights. In this respect, the general answer I gave earlier remains. Mrs Leijten asked what exactly was agreed. In the end, that's clear, I think. Actually, it's just two things. If they approve the Treaty of Accession, they will have more time to implement it than until 29 March, namely until 22 May. If they don't approve, they'll have to tell them what they want by April 12. That is, in short, what came out of the European Council last week. Of course, there is a whole range of options and variants behind it, but that continues to be speculation and sometimes literally reading tea leaves. Donald Tusk's statement: yes, he has every right to send such tweets as chairman ex cathedra, or from the chair. I do not object to that. They are not my tweets, or tweets from the European Council. But, as President of the Council of Heads of Government and Presidents, he is naturally also fully competent from that position to give his views on elements. That is what he does with the letter of invitation, in which cases are often somewhat sharper than a technical chairman would do. But he's not a technical chairman either. He is, of course, also a politician, he is President of the European Council. I think that's fine. Then that doesn't always have to be exactly what I would have said. That room has to be there. Then there was the question about Sophia. It was decided to extend that mandate for six months, but there was an argument about that. Italy has blocked on parts, causing the two ships to be recalled to port, while the mandate has been extended unchanged by all other means, including a reinforced air deployment. This does mean, of course, that certain tasks, such as the UN arms embargo, cannot be carried out as well. It's an intermediate solution, and as far as we're concerned, it's not the ideal solution. There was a very short deadline next Sunday. As a result, it was not possible to reach a structural solution now. Those negotiations will continue. All options are on the table. Besides, it's not like Sophia was set up to save people. Sophia was set up as a training mission. The number of migrants picked up by Sophia ships has fallen to a minimum in recent months. Between June and December, there was one rescue operation involving 106 people. There hasn't been a rescue since December. There are still other forms of maritime presence in the Mediterranean: not only Frontex, in the territorial waters of the EU Member States, but also several national coastguards of both EU Member States and non-EU countries, with international law also responsible for the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy, are and continue to be responsible for the rescue of people present in the Libyan SAR zone, Search and Rescue zone. It's an intermediate position. In the end, we must try to bring this to a successful conclusion, also in the context of the decisions we took at the European Council in June last year on migration. Once again, the unchanged mandate for this extension is in itself good news of the bad news that we eventually also had to deal with the Italian blockade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u270	Mrs Leijten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u271	This is complicated stuff. You don't want a taxi service, 'cause you're gonna play the smugglers in the cards. At the same time, you do not want the people saved at sea to be returned to unsafe countries, because that is contrary to the Refugee Convention. I would have asked if at least we could discuss this in a letter; Mr Harbers would have to do so, the Minister of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u272	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u273	The Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I think this aspect is important. Our analysis now leaves only the Libyan Coast Guard to rescue drones. This would automatically mean that they would enter the detention centres that everyone says human rights are being violated there. I would like a short-term response from the government to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u274	There's nothing in there more than I just told you. With fewer and fewer officials, I want to prevent us from sending another letter. I refer to this part of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u275	Yes, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u276	I remember so well that we had debates here last year on possible refugee treaties with third countries. Then the Prime Minister stood here and said: the Refugee Convention stands before me, and that is the principle of non-refoulement, so no people are being sent back to unsafe countries. But that's what's happening here. I think that the Prime Minister is getting off too easy by saying that he is referring to his previous answers, whereas he is not saying anything about them at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u277	No, but I said something about the responsibility of the Libyan Coast Guard in the context of the Search and Rescue task they have. That is in line with all international conventions. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u278	Mr. Van Raan, did you ask a question that hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u279	Yes, because the Prime Minister says President Tusk has a separate responsibility. That will be the case, but does the Prime Minister recognise that this independent responsibility seems to go further and further? He really made a statement here before the European summit decided on it. I have also asked whether there has been any consultation, either in advance or afterwards. What exactly happened there? And the Prime Minister recognizes that stretching? What would have happened if the Heads of Government had not agreed to that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u280	Yeah, but it's also not like we disagree. He said, "I'm in favour of a long extension." We have said that the British must indicate what they want by 12 April if they do not sign the Treaty of Accession. That is what we all prefer, including Tusk's. His statement had to do with the question of how you deal with a situation where the British do not. He says you'll probably end up with a much longer extension. Quite apart from what I think of all that, because it does not help at all if I comment on it again, but strictly speaking, the decision to ask the British to tell them what they want by 12 April is not contrary to his tweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u281	Mr Van Raan, finally. It's in second term, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u282	Mr President, I have not yet committed any interruption, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u283	...so you'll make up for it all in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u284	Well, I don't want to say that either, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u285	Do it before you do it! That's what she says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u286	That's a weird reaction, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u287	No, Mr. Van Raan, just for a second. We had an extensive debate in the first term. All kinds of questions have been answered in that. You didn't interrupt. That's your right, too. The second term is a bit final, for the remaining questions and assessing motions. That's what I'm saying. So if you did not intervene in the first period, that does not mean that the debate will be resumed in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u288	I'm not gonna make that assumption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u289	Okay. Then we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u290	These are final questions. Well, I've been brought a little off my toes by now. I hope for a little understanding!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u291	Yes, I understand you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u292	It remains to be seen that President Tusk has said that there can be a postponement if there is agreement. That really is a political fact. That has to be mentioned. The second question that has not yet been answered, in my opinion, but which one I have asked: which minister or governor should we be with in order to ask about the situation of the UK's benchmarks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u293	That, I think, is once again the Minister of Foreign Affairs as the overall coordinator of the government and the Minister of LNV in particular with regard to the benchmarks. I'm seeing heavy jabbering in the official business, so I'm not wrong about that. On that first point: I believe that Tusk's tweets are all still in sync with the conclusions, or that they do not counter or contradict, let me put it this way. They also leave room for that outcome. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt's motion and Mr Van Dam's motion for a resolution I am not going to advise 335, but I am going to say a lot of things, because I think that we are in agreement with each other in terms of content. Why dissuade him? Because this treaty law can only be regulated through the European Union and not by the Netherlands alone. Of course, we are working on temporary solutions in the framework of Interpol and a police liaison has been set up in London for bilateral consultations with the UK. If the UK leaves the Union through the Treaty of Accession, there will be effects on this point, but limited. If we do that with a no deal, the consequences will be greater. However, I must point out that leaving the UK from the European Union, whether with or without a treaty, with an exit treaty, is obviously better than having effects on these parts without a permit. That's inevitable. This applies to a lot of things and also to this kind of thing. However, on balance, I would advise against the motion because of the first argument, that this is an EU issue. The motion in part No. 336, I advise. I refer to all the arguments put forward by Mr Koolmees in the debate last Tuesday. The motion in part No. 337 gets judgment, Chamber. The motion in part No. 338, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 339 gets judgment, Chamber. What Van Rooijen and Van Brenk are asking for is also promised by Koolmees, of course everything within the legal framework, both national and European. But I know Mr Van Rooijen in such a way that he agrees with me. The motion in part No. 340: Judgment of the Court of Justice. It would also be my proposal to move the motion in part No. 341 to see exactly how this no-deal scenario develops. That is what I would like to ask Mr Verhoeven and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u294	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u295	I'm kind of surprised. Mr Van Rooijen asked for all possible means to be used to prevent the export of WW. This includes Article 48. How can my motion calling for that, then, be condemned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u296	I interpreted it in such a way that Mr Van Rooijen means 'inside the Netherlands', and that also means: how does it work in the Netherlands? That's what Koolmees promised. How does this work in the Netherlands with our WW legislation, with control of it, also in other countries, the role of the UWV and cooperation with the UWVs in other countries? That's how I interpreted that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u297	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u298	Making every effort to prevent that grant is really something other than getting the check on three to six months of WW in, for example, a country like Poland, where you earn €600. Then you're really not gonna get a job if you get €1,200 WW. So I find it strange, but I see it only so that if Mr Van Rooijen's motion is adopted, we can still use Rule 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u299	No, not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u300	Mr. Van Rooijen is happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u301	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for explaining and explaining my motion. I would like to point out to him that I am also explicitly concerned with having employers return the declaration of employment, as was the case in the past. That needs to be looked at, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u302	I see that Mr Omtzigt is nodding in the Chamber. So Mr Omtzigt says I can say yes. Can I read it back that way in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u303	That's good. Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-7.u304	Mrs Leijten has asked for her motion on item No. 336 votes. We will vote on the other motions next Tuesday. I shall now suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. Then we'll vote.
