ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	We continue with the VSO Registration and certification marines of organizations with ideal goals. I welcome the Minister and I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Monday evening we were confronted with the Minister's decision to chain the last rescue ship under the Dutch flag. Who saves the drones now that Operation Sophia has stopped? The Chamber is not involved in this decision. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas since September, the Chamber has been in talks with the Minister on a different certification of sea-going vessels used by civil society organisations;]] [[Whereas, for the second time, the Minister is now immediately introducing rules for a specific category of organisations without the involvement of the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to exercise due diligence in further steps regarding the certification of sea-going vessels and to submit them to the Chamber first,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has declared the policy change announced by the Minister with regard to the certification of sea-going vessels of civil society organisations to apply immediately to one of these organisations;]] [[Whereas the outcome of the discussions with the organizations concerned was not shared with the Chamber, whereas the Chamber did not receive a prior reply to the questions raised and the Chamber was not informed in advance of the decision concerning Sea-Watch, which entered into force immediately;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the decision to introduce the policy change with immediate effect until the Court has been able to decide on the policy change,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Schonis and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-222]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	You've got half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Sure! Half a minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has declared the policy change announced by the Minister with regard to the certification of sea-going vessels of civil society organisations to apply immediately to one of these organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to specify precisely to the NGOs concerned the technical and organisational requirements to be met within the new rules, and to share this with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Schonis and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	Then I give the floor to Mr Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD. It turns out to me that he doesn't have his speaking time. I call Mr von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr President. There are still a few speakers here tonight. It would be a shame if it would only become a production of GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. This VSO is about the safety of ships from organisations with ideal goals. The Minister is quite right to lay down detailed rules on the registration and certification of such ships. It is therefore the Sea-Watch 3, but later also boats from organisations such as Women on Waves, Greenpeace and so on. I was very surprised when I read that such organisations entered their marine vessels in the Flag Register in the same category as recreational craft. After all, they are clearly not recreational craft. As a result, these ships did not have to meet a number of safety and crew requirements. In view of the risks, which everyone is hopefully now aware of, this cannot be done at all. I therefore think it is only logical that the Minister should take this up. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Minister is not only working hard to repair this failure in the law. It is also good that she does so in consultation with the organisations concerned. It is also in their interest that safety is guaranteed. I have one more question. I hope I have at least understood that this amendment to the law does not concern ships of the KNRM and the Zeekadet corps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you very much. I see Mrs Kröger has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	I have a question about that very last sentence. On what grounds, on what basis and on what criteria would Mr von Martels want to distinguish between one category of ideal organisations using sea-going vessels and the other organisations, such as the Zeekadetten and the brown fleet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	We're not standing here for nothing. We have noted, especially when it comes to Sea-Watch 3, that until now we have not been aware at all of the fact that there have been a number of situations where the drownings, which could usually be driven very quickly into safe harbours, sometimes wandered around the sea for days before they actually visited a safe harbour. So the risks were many times greater with Sea-Watch 3 than with the organizations I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Schonis wishes to speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I largely agree with what Mrs Kröger said: we need to go through a careful legislative process on safety requirements for ships. For this reason, we will also support Mrs Kröger's two motions, which we have also tabled. A point for the follow-up process. Next week, at the procedural meeting, I will propose a separate general consultation on this matter. It was initially planned for the AO Maritime, but it seems good to have a separate AO on it, preferably for the Mayreces, so that we can finish this in the short term and in a careful way with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr Van Aalst has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I don't understand it very well. I understand that you want to have a separate discussion on this, and I can understand that from D66. Then we can talk about this again. I've asked that during the AO Maritime once. But what is actually happening here is that you want to protect Greenpeace's terrorists, who are throwing concrete blocks in the water from our fishermen? Am I to understand that D66 is up for that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Van Aalst, I don't think I understood you so well. We are talking about safety requirements for ships. Greenpeace is one of the organisations affected by this new change. It concerns safety requirements on board their ships. That's what it's about and not about terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u17	Finally, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u18	Correct. That's what the legal amendment is about; it's a repair that the minister is doing right now. But that's an improvement for people like that, isn't it? It's just that safety is getting better. Now do I understand you're gonna lie down for that? You do not want that to happen, that they simply continue to be covered by recreational craft and that they can continue with their bizarre actions which are precisely at stake in terms of safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u19	I think we need to distinguish two things: the actions of the organisations concerned and the safety on board ships. Mr von Martels has put it nicely, namely that it is striking that we currently consider this type of ship to be recreational craft. That's striking indeed. The Minister now decides to impose additional requirements on one specific category. With all other NGOs, she is in conversation to impose these requirements on other types of ships, but not on this very short term. It seems to us to be very careful that we all have a good debate on this once in a while. That hasn't happened so far. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u20	You end up with a point. That's good. Then I ask if the Minister is immediately able and willing to answer. I understand she needs two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u21	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will give an opinion on the motions in a moment, but there was also one question put by Mr von Martels. He asked if it was true that this does not apply to the KNRM and to the sea cadets. That's right: it doesn't apply to that. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 222, on the basis of Mrs Kröger, calls on the Government to act with care in further steps with regard to the certification of sea-going vessels and to submit them to the Chamber first. Well, I'm quite willing to do that, so I can give her "judge chamber." The motion in part No. 223, from Mrs Kröger's point of view, calls on the government to suspend the decision to introduce the policy change immediately until the Chamber has been able to give its opinion. I would like to discourage that motion, because I deliberately allowed this ministerial arrangement to go in to avoid risks. So I'm not prepared to do that. The motion in part No. 224 also by Mrs Kröger, the government calls on the NGOs concerned to specify precisely what technical and organisational requirements they must meet within the new rules, and to share this with the Chamber. I would also like to point out to Mrs Kröger that when it comes to ensuring that it is absolutely clear to the NGOs what they have to meet and that I will discuss this with them, I am happy to be prepared to do so. Then I could also give 'judge chamber', but I would like to make it clear that we mean the same thing, because how that works out for an individual ship is the responsibility of the organisation itself. It's like an apk test: you know what a car has to meet, but you have to take your car to the garage yourself to find out exactly what it means to you. And if there are differences of interpretation, and that can be done with technical requirements, then I would like to say that the Ministry would like to help in this and look into it when it comes to how this can be done. But in principle, I can give 'judge chamber' on this, if we agree on it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u23	I see that the text of the motion in part No. 223 linguistically not quite right. Perhaps Mrs Kröger could take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u24	No, I was wrestling with it too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u25	Excuse me, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u26	I see both Mr Van Aalst and Mrs Kröger at the interrupting microphone. I hope that Mr Van Aalst will allow me to give Mrs Kröger the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I interpret the motion in the same way as the Minister, namely that it must be clear to the organisation in question what requirements it must meet. And we want that clear as a room, too. So that's why there's the part about the request whether she can share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u28	Sure. I can share that with the room. I just wanted to say that we are not going to take over the whole inspection process, because that is what class offices are for. That then comes out if a ship, as you yourself yourself said recently, can meet all the green ticks. Then we agree, I think, and then I can give "judge chamber" on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u29	I have another question concerning the remark that has just been made, namely that this regulation does not apply to sea cadets and so on. In a letter it is described as follows. This scheme applies only to organisations that save drownings, but the rest of the framework, namely the framework for adapting the maritime certification of civil society organisations, does apply to the sea cadets. Or the Secretary of State is telling us something new right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u30	No, that is not conflicting, because the point is that the ships are not used as recreational craft. And that's where he gets the difference. If you're talking about sea cadets, that's recreational use, and that's why they're not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u31	Very briefly, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u32	The Minister is telling us something new. This is quite different from that of the AO Maritime, so I hope that the Minister will be able, from her point of view, to outline which ideal organisations, research organisations and all those organisations that are very concerned at the moment are included and which are not, for the AO Maritime or the AO in which we are going to talk about this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u33	I would like to do my utmost to take away as quickly as possible and, if possible, as far as possible before that AO, the uncertainty about who is and is not covered by it. For example, the KNRM, which Mr Von Martels also asked for, does not even sail under the Dutch flag; that is not the case at all, because it does not come outside the Dutch waters, but is good. Let us agree: in anticipation of the AO Maritime or the special AO that you are planning to discuss this subject, you will then take a decision on it at the procedural meeting. I will give you as much clarity as possible about who is and is not covered by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u34	Finally, Mr Van Aalst has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u35	Let me start very briefly. We did discuss all this in the AO Maritime. For the PVV it is clear that the KNRM saves people and provides security and that Sea-Watch facilitates smugglers. It is very clear to us, so we do not need you to explain it again. But my question is this. What about the motion on part No. 222 and the motion in part No. 224? I don't understand it so well. We have just exchanged this in the AO Maritime and I think all these organisations have been informed of this. That is what the Minister told us during that AO, so I think both motions are superfluous. We have discussed this in detail. Can the Minister explain this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u36	We still need to give more substance to the framework. We have now said, because of the acute security risks, for this category: we cannot wait, we must do so now. But with the category that you could call "research ships," there is another framework. Depending on the use, we will therefore continue to develop the different frameworks with the relevant NGOs. So we'll go through the whole register and see who's registered as recreational craft. Then we'll see what they actually do and what requirements fit. Mrs Kröger has tabled a motion on this. We are going to inform the Chamber about this, so that the right demands are always chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u37	It will now be a debate on the Minister's opinion, but I would like to give Mr Van Aalst the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u38	The PVV welcomes this change. During the AO Maritime, the Minister indicated that these organisations were indeed informed. It's being framed here now as if it's a big surprise, but it's no surprise at all. People have been properly informed. These motions are totally unnecessary for that. This has just gone neatly. It is right that the Minister corrects this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr Van Aalst also gave his opinion and thanked him for that. It's the Minister's opinion. It's very unusual to have a whole discussion about that, so be very brief, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u40	Very briefly. In its assessment, the Minister points out a number of times that acute risks have arisen. But does the Minister see that, because Operation Sophia has stopped and the Sea-Watch 3 is currently tied up, other acute risks arise for the drownings? What do we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u41	I only deal with shipping. I am responsible for the safety of shipping and its risks. It is my ministerial competence to act in that, and I have done so, because I find it irresponsible to take these risks. I am not talking about the broader migration policy and what is or is not decided in Europe. Then you must be with colleague Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u42	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u43	You're responsible, because it's one cabinet. I assume this has been discussed, including with Harbers. What does he think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr Harbers also supports this. Whatever the purpose of a ship, if there are large groups of people on board, that ship must be safe and the crew must be adequately trained. To be honest, I haven't met anyone who doesn't agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u45	I thank the members and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-9.u46	We're going to vote on the motions next Tuesday.
