ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the debate on the Groningen earthquake. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman, on behalf of the SP, as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u2	The Netherlands is an insanely cool country, said Prime Minister Rutte. What an insanely cool country, where children no longer dare to sleep because of earthquakes. What an insanely cool country, where parents have to lift their child to the finish line of the evening four days because the child is afraid there is another quake. What an insanely cool country, where the primary necessities of life are not met safety and security. What an insanely cool country, where gas extraction is still not at a safe level. What an insanely cool country, where more than ten thousand people are sick because of the way State and Shell deal with them. What an insanely cool country, where you're stuck in a broken, unsafe, unsellable house and the government takes away your dreams, your plans, your hopes and your health. What an amazing country, huh, Rutte? Your country might be insanely cool. Mien laand isn't. I live in Groningen, a country I'm proud of, but is it still the Netherlands? Is my country still part of this? Do we matter? Mr. Chairman. I am fighting for two things today, nothing more, nothing less: recognition and action. Yesterday we received a letter from the Minister. A few heavily fought steps forward, but it's not enough. Both recognition and essential actions are lacking. The letter states that the earthquakes have led to "feelings of insecurity and powerlessness," that damage handling and reinforcement are "polite" as an unequal fight. And the situation is "experienced" by Groninger as a crisis in slow-motion. Mr. Chairman. It's not about feelings, experience and experience. It's about facts. Recognize this. Acknowledging that there is still government failure of non-Dutch proportions. Acknowledging that your actions have caused long-term social disruption. Acknowledge that people have been compromised by this cabinet and the decision to stop the reinforcement operation. Acknowledging that your approach to strengthening unsafe houses is bankrupt. Acknowledging it's a crisis. A really different approach requires first recognition that what you did was really wrong. You can't speed up a failed approach, says Gasberaad. It's about buildings and numbers again, and it's not about the people again. My simple question is: are you prepared to follow all the advice of SodM and the region one-on-one? Are you really prepared to opt for a different approach to reinforcement, in which residents are central? And are you prepared to carry out the necessary reinforcements immediately? Do you guarantee that there will be real money now? Or should you return to the NAM before anything can happen? Mr. Chairman. Why does the cabinet speak of a "please general" in the settlement of damages? Should the Groningen say "thank you"? Why only a TCMG damage scheme prior to 1 January? Why create two groups of Groningers again? Does the cabinet really believe that this arrangement is sufficient? Are you prepared to ensure that there is a generic buy-out scheme, à la Moerdijksgeld? Because Groningers are far from safe and trapped in their own home. From the point of view of security, the supervisor advises to win only 12 billion cubs next gas year. The cabinet chooses not to implement this recommendation. Why do you keep Groningers waiting another year in insecurity? Finally, Mr President. We also want an insanely cool country. But that's not our burden. You're responsible for that. Acknowledge that and come up with real deeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u4	Mr. Chairman. There is a disaster in Groningen. People don't know where they stand when their house is damaged. They've been waiting years for a solution. They are ground by bureaucratic procedures. They still don't know if their house is safe. The stress and mental problems take huge forms. Kids perform worse in school. There's been a disaster. The Minister sent a letter yesterday. I will deal with that first and then I will say something about how it could have come to this. First of all, the letter. The direction of a number of proposals is good for the PvdA Group, but a general please, as yet another bizarre point of view of this Minister... Do you really expect the Groningers to say thank you? The €5,000 scheme. In itself, it is a good thing that there should be a line for people who are waiting a long time now, but why put that line back on 1 January? Why not compensate the people affected by the earthquake two weeks ago in Westerwijtwerd? Why is that inequality again? What makes that limit set at $5,000? Why don't you meet some more people? The long-term damage is the biggest problem in Groningen. People wait two to three years for their damage to be compensated. Then what happens to it? Why didn't you suggest that? Then there is my second point. State surveillance on the Mines came up with a very hard-on report last week. It said, among other things, take that gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres next year. Why does the cabinet refuse to take that advice? Execute that, I'd say. The third point. No guarantee scheme has been proposed for homes in Groningen. The region has been asking for it for years, so that people know for sure that if they buy a house there, it also holds its value and that people are also a little sure: if I sit here, I can get out of here. Whether you call that the 'Murdock' rule, I think it is actually too sober, but at least do something in that direction. Why wasn't that chosen? Why are we still not reading about an approach for all those farmers who have enormous problems, such as damage to dungeons? Why have no proposals been made in yesterday's letter? As you know, I've been worried about the monuments for years. Words are devoted to it, but there are still no solutions for all those churches and monuments that determine the identity of Groningen. The second point is that I will be guided not only by the letter sent last night, but also by the debates and views that have passed through here recently. What has happened is a little characteristic of this minister. He had come up with a solution with less gas extraction. Wide support in the Chamber. Good thing. But at the same time, he withdrew the reinforcement approach. He put a line on it. That was also the reason Hans Alders stepped down as National Coordinator. By stopping that reinforcement and promising clarity.... 1 July last year, everyone would have clarity............................................................................................................................................................................................ So that turned out to be also last week, after that quake. There are dozens of reports of acutely unsafe buildings. And that is partly because the Minister has stopped the reinforcement and has not got it going either. He has promised it over and over again on the basis of numbers and so on, but has not fulfilled it all. That's serious. The conclusion of State surveillance of the Mines is that social disruption is in place in Groningen, that people are uncertain about their home and that the damage is not compensated. The King's Commissioner and the region say that this minister's strengthening approach is bankrupt. The entire opposition has said over and over again: you should not do this, because this is causing misery. In view of all this, one can only observe that what the Minister did to his reinforcement approach, in which he was in fact right, is rejected by those organizations. We shall give our opinion in the second term. I note, however, that both the administration and the State supervision of the Mines had a very harsh judgment on it, and I think that we should also express our opinion on it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr van den Broek on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u6	Mr. Chairman. Earlier, this minister of EZK called the Groningen earthquake drama "Dutch government failure of non-Dutch proportions." Although that is actually a kind of confession of guilt, under this minister the misery has become more dramatic, more complex and hopeless by the day. Meanwhile, his own coalition feels the same way. I quote: "The bumbling emanates from the entire cabinet; you're still in one picture with him." That's what fellow ministers say to the newspaper anonymously. Another coalition source says: Wiebes lies badly; he is a strange duck in the bite; he behaves like a strange professor. Mr. Chairman. Not only in Groningen, but also in his own coalition, confidence in this minister has fallen to an absolute low. And you think it's crazy! The recent severe earthquake, which added another 3,000 damage cases, called this minister a "fickle." How do you get it out of your throat! Then you really didn't understand what the Groningers are going through. Mr. Chairman. Last night there was a very long letter from this minister, with all kinds of measures to speed things up. Too little, too late. Why didn't the Minister come forward with this until now? And why did this require yet another major earthquake? And, dear Minister, honestly, you are not doing this at all because you really are doing the best for the Groningen people; you are doing this only because your position has been under attack from your own coalition. At least the Groningers have very little faith in it. I'm quoting something. "Strong evidence of political opportunism," "pops, who still believes in it," "the umpteenth arrangement of that Eric Kwiebes"; it literally stands there. Mr. Chairman. It may sound a bit awkward from the mouth of a PVV'er, but in the case of Groningen it is really time for a general pardon. Earlier, the Minister said that this is technically and legally impossible. It would be an infringement of the ownership of the NAM. How do you make it up! But why did the Minister once again set up the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage in Groningen? In doing so, the State has taken over the damage settlement. That means: the State pays out and then tells the NAM afterwards. The government can therefore make a direct payment. So do it! Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen has now proposed to offer a choice to all those injured who submitted their claim before 1 January 2019. Either they get directly €5,000 or a contractor immediately starts working up to a maximum of €10,000. Is the Minister prepared to apply this scheme to all those who have been injured, not only to those who filed a claim before 1 January, but also to those who filed their claim after 1 January 2019? Because, of course, it doesn't really matter whether damage was caused as a result of a recent quake or a previous quake. It is and continues to be damage due to the same government failure. Mr. Chairman. When the PVV told the Minister in an AO two weeks ago that gas extraction needed to be reduced more quickly, the Minister was a bit laughing about it. But now, for all intents and purposes, State surveillance of the mines is saying the same thing. Next year gas extraction will have to be reduced to the relatively safe level of 12 billion cubic metres. That is what the Minister writes in his letter: That will be a huge challenge. What the hell, "big challenge"? That's not an actor, is it? Is the minister just gonna take care of that next year, yes or no? It is really crucial that the Minister responds to all these questions "yes" loudly and clearly. Go deliver! Why don't you go and do something? Get out of here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u8	Mr. Chairman. On 22 May, another major earthquake took place in Groningen. The Minister of EZK was not impressed: a "chick." It wasn't until there was a fuss that he called a stupid slip of the tongue. I have a question about that. What was the reason for his choice of words? After a year and a half on this file, has the Minister become cynical? Does the Minister know that many Groningers no longer have any faith in the government? Does the Minister know that many Groningers, including many children, have serious psychological problems due to the earthquakes and the continuing uncertainty and lack of solutions? The Minister's choice of words felt like a dagger punch to the back, especially since the Minister has so far shown little decisive action. Because a lot of visible things don't happen. There is no shortage of fine words, but there are no real improvements so far. The Prime Minister also had his own way of reflecting on the drama in Groningen. Because, he thought, we shouldn't put the nursing homes in Limburg in the cold. Here too, the choice of words was most unfortunate, because Groningen is what Limburg was in the last century: a wingewest, which is stripped of fossil fuels, natural gas, coal, after which the province left empty. Broken houses, broken people: a recipe for uncertainty, for stress, for unease and for deep, deep distrust of the government. Moreover, in response to the earthquake, the abject is to refer to the necessity of gas extraction, especially by this Prime Minister. Because in recent years gas extraction has been held at an irresponsiblely high level by his cabinets. That is not knowledge afterwards; we have known that for years. The SodM advised in January 2013 that the earthquakes in Groningen will not stop until gas extraction is below 12 billion cubic metres per year, but the Rutte II cabinet ignored that and increased gas extraction to 53 billion cubic metres: 340% above the safe limit. When I referred again on 16 January last year to that 12 billion cub, the Minister of EZK accused me of declaring figures sacrosanct. Denying, trivializing, ridiculing: those were the standard reactions when the gas extraction was questioned. The consequences? "Bitches." For six years, leave gas production irresponsiblely high and then say with a sock in your voice: we do it not for ourselves, but for the Limburg care homes. Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction needs to be down, fast, from a safety point of view. That is the urgent opinion of SodM. SodM speaks of continuous social disruption due to gas extraction, but the Minister of EZK sees many practical objections. But safety must be at the forefront now, mustn't it? Surely we can't buy this constant social disruption in a civilized country? Gas extraction has to go down to 12 billion cubic metres next year, as SodM recommends and then to zero. We were already dealing with 16,000 unfinished damage cases. About 3,000 cases have now been added. That means, according to my calculations, about one in fifteen homes in Groningen are damaged. In addition, the reinforcement approach appears to be bankrupt and the settlement of damages is taking far and far too long. The SodM advises the Minister to tackle the reinforcement operation as a crisis. My question to the rulers: are they prepared to do so? Do they agree with us that the recent earthquake once again shows that a fundamentally different approach is needed, a crisis approach, with the result being a priority for the inhabitants? An approach aimed at coulance, at regaining the confidence of the Groningen and not at feeding mistrust. Finally. Many Groningers were crippled by the earthquakes and then crashed into a swamp of agencies and procedures. You plow and you plow. It takes all your strength and it takes your breath away, but you're not getting anywhere. You're sinking deeper and deeper. How does the Minister ensure smooth implementation of the new rules? How does he guarantee that Groningen will not be further withdrawn from the swamp? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I looked it up just for the Prime Minister. Between 2012, the year of the earthquake at Zeerijp, and 2018 in the Netherlands 373,417 houses were built. During the same period, only 572 buildings in Groningen were reinforced to the standard. Anyone who considers the ratio, the imbalance, between these two numbers immediately understands where the anger of the Groningers comes from. Then it doesn't give a pass to choose concealing language, as it did yesterday in the letter. It is written in the government's letter that the earthquakes unleash "feelings of insecurity and powerlessness." While there is measurable insecurity! This makes it unnecessary to suggest that the cabinet wants to manage the security experience, rather than guarantee real security. Take that suggestion away! I emphasized two weeks ago that duped Groningers are in a very deep valley and that we are busy climbing a mountain, while avalanches are coming down. Not knowing that the Minister the next day with an error diminutive an extra avalanche of unjust................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Criticism unraveled. He expressed his regret about this and I think it would be wise for him to repeat it this evening. Although that is extremely difficult for all concerned, we must continue with that ascent. There's no other way. As far as I am concerned, we have not climbed the mountain until the damage handling and reinforcement have been carried out generously and results-oriented, and that is far from the case. Especially the reinforcements are bogged down in a bureaucratic nightmare. The Dutch want their prime minister to be there for all Dutch. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that he has not been the prime minister of the corrupted Groningers? Does the cabinet regret that it has stopped abruptly with the previous strengthening approach, while there has not yet been a new approach? Can the Prime Minister, on behalf of the entire cabinet, undertake that the reservoir in the damage handling process has been generously and results-oriented as of 1 January 2020? And can he also promise that before 1 January 2021, the most unsafe houses have been generously strengthened and result-oriented? Focusing on the direction in the interplay between residents and municipalities is, in our view, the core of the strengthening policy that is needed. There are already good examples of this. I call it the Hamplace in Den Boer. That's where Mr Nijboer comes from. I have been there and I am very impressed by how the residents themselves, by taking control of themselves, outside the NCG, have succeeded in realizing a reinforcement in a very short time, which will also be completed within a year. So that's possible! It can be much more unorthodox and much faster, and that must be the guiding principle for the whole of Groningen. Why does the cabinet not take over all the proposals of the region? It is good that a number of them have already been incorporated into the policy or are being incorporated into it, because that has yet to be done. But there are also five points that the region is asking for that are not appointed. Just admit it and work on its elaboration tomorrow in consultation with the region! Whatever I'm missing is phrases about the building depot. A motion has been passed on that. Is that being taken in hand? Then the gas extraction itself: it has to go further down. There are possibilities. I would just like to mention the better procurement of asphalt. That can be produced much more sustainably, and if the entire government does, you can save so much gas, Groningen gas. Will there be compensation for overruns in terms of deadlines when it comes to strengthening? This has been mentioned in the media, but has not yet been recorded in the letter. There is a crisis in slow motion, and although commitments have been made, there is still no real crisis approach. I have talked to the Groninger Gasberaad about this and they have very constructive ideas for that. I call on the Minister to talk to them personally, to listen carefully to them and to report here what he is going to do with them. And as the inhabitants of the Hamplaats wrote to me: "by taking matters into their own hands and putting the NCG out of play, we now have it after a year that we are going to get a new house." The inhabitants of the Hamplaats have taken a risk by not walking the straight path, but they are already almost at the end point. And "of course it's exciting, and of course there's a lot to figure out, but we have the direction." Good example does follow well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mr Geleijne on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a gas bubble was found under the province of Groningen in 1959, within a few months there were drilling towers on the land of farmer Boon in Kolham. In a few months. In December 1986 an earthquake of 3.0 on the Richter scale was measured. Since then, we count more than 1,000 earthquakes in Groningen, but only in 2012, after the earthquake in Huizinge with a force of 3.6, the problem is becoming more and more common on the national political agenda. In 2015, the conclusion in a report of the Research Council for Security was very clear: for 50 years, the government has not drawn much attention to the safety of the Groningers; money was the most important. In the following years, we have often and intensely discussed in the Chamber the reduction in gas extraction, a recovery plan for the region, a buy-out scheme and the reinforcement operation. Mr. Chairman. Where the government was able to extract gas within a few months, it has been years and years before the government really does something about the safety of all residents in Groningen and surroundings. The 50PLUS Group supports the advice of the State Monitoring of Mines to address the damage handling and reinforcement operation as a crisis. A number of questions, and I quote first from yesterday's letter: 'The regional authorities and the cabinet agree that this is an acceptable exchange that fits in with a crisis approach'. Does this also mean that the government now defines the reinforcement operation and the settlement of damages as a crisis? Is the government prepared to apologize to all the Groningen people in response? There will be one implementation organisation that will take on the tasks of the National Coordinator Groningen and the Centre Secure Living. This organisation will be given a broad mandate and the necessary financial resources. Can the government explain this again? What is "clear" and what is the necessary "financial margin"? The Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen is going to make an offer to those who have made a claim before 1 January 2019. It's about 9,000 people. How is it ensured that people who have been waiting so long and who do not meet the amounts mentioned will be adequately compensated in the foreseeable future? Why is a distinction made with the reports after 1 January 2019? Why? And the last question. Why couldn't we do all this before? Was there really a need for a new quake to accelerate this process? Mr. Chairman. The suffering is invisible to many. Damages after the earthquakes of Huizinge and Zeerijp have not yet been remedied, and there are again over 3,000 additional reports after the earthquake of 22 May. There's so much anger, so much grief and fear, health problems at young and old. And let's be honest. The reason for all these problems is clear: the extraction of gas over the years, the extraction of gas that we have benefited from. We were hot, we could cook, and the state treasury was pretty hot. The Netherlands earned more than 400 billion euros in mineral extraction. The budget for reinforcement should therefore not be a problem; it should be generous. And yes, the gas extraction needs to go further down. That's important, but no immediate guarantee that tremors will stop. All the reasons why the damage handling and the reinforcement should be dealt with quickly, not only on paper, but in the neighbourhoods, the villages and the streets of Groningen. Within a few months visible results, as in 1959, when within a few months the drilling towers were visible on the land of farmer Boon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Legionine. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A week and a half ago, Groningen was shocked again by an earthquake. And no, before the colleagues run to the interrupting microphone, that wasn't a tickle. It is good that this minister immediately apologized for this clumsy statement. Because this quake has also caused a huge impact in Groningen. I was there last week and I spoke to a lot of people there again. They told me about their fear and uncertainty, that they sleep with the light on, wake up at the smallest sound, ready to come out quickly if necessary. This earthquake is a new blow for them, which shows us again why it is so important that this minister, this cabinet, reduces gas extraction to zero as quickly as possible. That decision is the only way to provide security to Groningen as soon as possible. I understand very well that Groningers, especially after this new quake, would like us to reduce the extraction even faster than is already the case. See also the advice of the SodM to reach 12 billion cubic metres next year. The VVD also wants this. Can the Minister indicate if he sees any other options for accelerating the phasing-out? Mr. Chairman. It has also been said by my fellow Members: we are not here by simply phasing out extraction. Groningers who have damage are still very often waiting for recovery or reinforcement. They tell us about the huge bureaucracy: dozens of inspections of a dozen different bodies that last months and cost thousands of euros. Before any damage recovery or reinforcement can be done, one must first check if there are bats or bird nests, then months later another inspection or the initial observation was correct. Then we are months away in which everything has stopped, and then we are thousands of euros further. This is an example of the many bureaucratic rules which, apart from each other, are probably all good for something, but can no longer be explained with common sense. Commissioner of the King Easter also states that the agreements made by the region and the Empire together still do not deliver the speed we all want. Understandably, this leads to very great frustration on the part of Groningers and causes social damage. Nobody wants this. Nobody. The VVD supports the call for a clear, unambiguous direction with one director on the ground who has a very broad mandate, with speed as focus and understanding of the implementation and... very important.. with the necessary financial resources to really tackle matters. I read that the Minister states that the NCG will be given this role. I would like to hear from the Minister how this mandate is set up. A good mandate is, of course, crucial if we are to be able to move quickly. The bureaucracy must also be dealt with. Not countless inspections and reports, but action. Can the Minister tell us how this is cleaned up? Can the Minister confirm once again that security is at the heart of this, whatever it costs, and that the stories about delaying tactics are really nonsense? Mr. Chairman. Today it is a lot about the new damage and how it can be done better, but I would also like to dwell on the old reports. People with old damage, with old reports, are also entitled to a quick and smooth handling. The VVD likes to see these people being really helped this year. Can the Minister also comment on that, please? Mr. Chairman. As I said, it's not just trouble and torment. Real steps are being taken: the extraction is being considerably reduced, the NAM has been removed from the process and the Minister has taken responsibility for the safety of Groningers. He has made good agreements with regional leaders on how safety can be given priority, but we are still far from there. Groningers need to get control of their lives back. People have a right to respect and recognition. I also understand this need very well. We can take care of it. We can also make sure that Groningers get the direction of their lives back through tight direction, simplicity, speed and transparency. This can only be done if the regional leaders and all of us work together here. Mr President, you have heard me say this more often: no Groninger will benefit if we are more involved with each other than with the people who run it. As far as I am concerned, they are central. For them I remain committed until the final damage settlement is settled and every Groninger is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u15	I thank Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius for her story. What I find positive is that the VVD also says that next year, and so faster than planned, we have to go back to 12 billion cubic tons of gas. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius says: we are waiting for the Minister's answer to see if he wants to do so and what he is going to do. But as a room, we can ask the same thing. We are preparing a motion to ask the Minister to go to 12 billion cubic metres next year. Is the VVD prepared to support that motion and perhaps even submit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u16	I would first like to await the Minister's reply. I don't think it's common practice for us to put forward motions in the first term. If we can go to 12 billion tomorrow, I want to go to 12 billion tomorrow. There's a reason why we're cutting down as fast as we can, but we're not there yet. We also have to take into account the fact that a lot of houses in the Netherlands and companies depend on Groningen gas. It's going to be reduced at a high rate, even faster than we thought last year and even faster than we thought six months ago. And I sincerely hope for even faster than we think today. I would just very much like to know from the Minister what is needed for this, so that we can make a balanced decision and not say things here that we will not be able to deliver to the Groningen people. That's the last thing I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u17	This was a very long answer to a question that I did not ask, a specialty of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. This is what I asked you. It's not customary for us to file motions in the first term, but neither do I. I'm just announcing her. We in the Chamber are supposed to have an opinion on this at the end of the day. The Minister's gonna answer right away. If the Minister says we're going back to 12 next year, that saves a motion filed. I would like to know from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius whether she is prepared to support that motion. I do not ask a whole story about waiting for the Minister's answer; I want to know what the VVD wants. Is the VVD prepared to record this in a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u18	Everyone knows that we depend on Groningen gas throughout the Netherlands and that phasing out gas extraction depends on it. That's the whole dilemma. We're tearing it down real hard. The sooner we can do that, the better. That's what I just said. As a VVD, we are fully in favour of this. We believe that this gas extraction should be reduced. In fact, everyone thinks so, except for one party, and he is not here either. That's Forum. Forum finds: continue drilling. For the rest, we all want to stop as soon as possible. I just want to know what it takes. Almost all households in the Netherlands depend on Groningen gas. That's a fact. These are not fictional examples. I would like to know from the Minister of the entire cabinet what we can do to get to the 12 billion as soon as possible. And whatever it takes, we're gonna discuss it here. I'm not gonna yell things that will send Groningers home that we can't live up to, and you can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u19	The State supervision of the Mines, the supervisor, is harsh in its judgment and states that there is long-term social disruption. Do you, through the President, agree with me that this cabinet is responsible for this, so it is responsible for social disruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u20	The situation in Groningen is absolutely very serious. That concludes the SodM. I see it, too. I can see it when we're there together. I can see it when I'm there myself. This cabinet has been working since last year to reduce gas extraction and to set up the reinforcement and damage recovery in such a way that the NAM is out of the way. The damages settlement, which has been stationary for years, has re-arrested the cabinet. The cabinet has taken some serious steps. And I understand perfectly well that every Groninger who's been in uncertainty and literally in the mess for years doesn't have a message about that. I understand the anger of the Groningen people very well. But Mrs Beckerman here pretends that the cabinet hasn't done anything at all and we're suddenly in chaos. Of course, that's not fair. No one, really no one, wants things to be the way they are in Groningen. That's what huge steps are being taken. Only the Groningen don't feel it yet. That is why I share with you the various motions and the various steps announced by the Minister yesterday. I hope that this also applies to the various agreements that will be made with the regional authorities tomorrow in order to get that acceleration in order. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u21	"Megarge steps" says Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I saw a picture today of a house that has struts by the struts. So long the original struts have been there, that they even need to be strutted now. I have a very specific question: is the current strengthening approach now bankrupt or not? And does Mrs Yeşilgöz believe that by stopping that approach last year, the cabinet unnecessarily put people at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u22	A year and a half ago, there were 22,000 houses that needed reinforcement. That's what Mrs. Beckerman is referring to. Dozens a year have been dealt with. Dozens a year, out of 22,000. Back then, we didn't even notice which were the most unsafe. I don't want to go back to that approach. I've said that here before. That's what I'm always gonna say. I will never agree with any parties that would like to go back there, with parties that claim that this was fine. Am I saying that the situation there is good now? No. Just before I came in here, I had a Mr. from Groningen on the line telling me in tears what he is now in and begging us to acknowledge it. I totally agree: we just need to get this right. I am not saying that things are going well, but to pretend that we are coming out of a good situation where everything has gone well, after which the cabinet has taken steps that are not good, makes no sense. We must be very careful here about what is happening and how we can make it better for Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u23	Mrs Yeşilgöz just made a very smart speech about what should happen in Groningen, as if she and the VVD were in favour of Groningen. But let's not forget that it's the VVD that's been working for years in this country. It has been the VVD, its own party, which in the first place has caused the misery of Groningen and has for years failed to cut down that gas extraction and to deal with the damage more quickly. So how credible is Mrs Yeşilgöz? How credible is her argument? How credible is the VVD still here? How credible is her own VVD minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u24	I am very sorry if we are going to turn this into a political and Haags game. I especially want to focus on Groningers. In 2013, more than 50 billion cubs were won. A year and a half ago, two years ago, more than 21 billion cubs were won. We are now going to end 2020, beginning 2021 if it is all right to 12.2 billion cuub. I hope this will be sooner. Gas extraction is being phased out. I also hope we're going to zero soon. Most of us didn't even have this in their election programme or dared dream that we could reduce gas extraction to zero. Again, Groningers have nothing to do with this story and this Hague game is useless. They just want to see that things are going well in their home, they just want to direct their own lives and they just want to be able to move forward. That's what I'm standing here for. I am fine with pointing fingers and doing so, but then we have to look at the facts, at what is really happening. What we need to focus on right now is that the Groningers also notice. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u25	A very long answer. Above all, the advice of the SodM must be carried out: next year the gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres. But, yes, your own minister doesn't want that. Instead, he talks about "a tick." Then you can say nicely at the beginning of your speech that it is very good that he has apologized, but that of course says something. It just indicates how this minister actually thinks about Groningen, that he really doesn't care at all. Of course, that is in line with what is secretly said to the press in secret in the coalition. "His bumbling emanates from the cabinet." "Free duck in the bite." "Wiebes is bad." "He's a strange professor." "You're in one picture with him." What do you think of this? Have you been that coalition source? Do you still trust your own minister? Or do you still want to take a picture with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u26	So far "no games in The Hague and focus on Groningers," I understand. Those who say anonymous things in the newspaper are responsible for that themselves. They have to. If I found anything, I'd say it with my name on it. That's one. I am very happy with what this cabinet is doing. I am extremely pleased that the cabinet says: we are going to reduce to zero as quickly as possible. I am also extremely happy that they say: we are also going to see where things are not going well and we are going to take all the steps that are needed. Together in various debates, we asked the Minister to confirm once again that this is not about money and to confirm that everything is being done. That has been confirmed several times. So this is what we have to do. We must work together with the region and with the parties here for Groningers. That is also what this cabinet is doing, and I hope that we will all work together. That is the only way to ensure that Groningers regain control of their own lives and move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u27	Groningers aren't happy, far from it. Mrs Yeşilgöz knows that too, because she has been to a musical with me and many others: a letter to the NAM. In it the HRA model of Minister Wiebes, the base under the reinforcement, was placed as a killer robot. Very well done, very well done. Now authoritative institutions, such as the Ombudsman and State supervision of the Mines, but also the region say that this approach is not good; you just have to let people go over their own homes and let those villages do it yourself. Does Mrs Yeşilgöz recognise that we should no longer go through with this approach, that that computer model is not good and that that really does not lead to anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u28	That play, that musical, it was really beautiful. I couldn't agree more. That was about a letter to the NAM. The children have been able to show us all in a very, very impressive way how they experience it and what they run into. One of my biggest lessons there, of course, we all know that, but they made that so visible... was what bureaucracy does to you and what that uncertainty does to you. We have talked more about the HRA model with Mr Nijboer. I have said this before: in the absence of a better model, we have it now. The model has recently improved; we have discussed it extensively in a different consultation. The moment there's a better model ahead, we embrace it. The Minister also said that, but the VVD has always said that. But you need something to determine what the unsafe houses are. This is exactly what Mr Nijboer wants back and I do not. This is the situation where we knew that 22,000 or 21,000 houses had to be strengthened, we did dozens a year but didn't even know which had to be tackled with urgency or priority in terms of safety. Now we know a lot better. If there's a better model, please, but I don't want to go back to the blackbox period, in which we didn't even know which houses had to be covered first. Safety must be at the heart of this. It just has to be. The moment there's a better model, we're gonna embrace it together. But surely Mr Nijboer cannot think that he really wants to go back to a time when we didn't even know which house had to be dealt with first? How the hell can we explain that to the Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u29	I don't have much trouble with that. I don't want to go back to anything. I want people who live in a house, who live in a village, to decide for themselves what their future looks like. I have no problem at all with the assumption that people voluntarily break down their own house if they do not need it and that on a large scale people are strengthening monuments, which often makes those monuments much uglier. I'm not afraid of that at all. The assumption of the government has always been: we have to point out what is unsafe and then we start to compensate and then they can get started. I want mayors, aldermen, the people and the village associations to take matters into their own hands. We're going there with yesterday's letter one step, but we're not there yet. Mrs Yeşilgöz ridiculed the past and said: 'Then it was nothing and Mr Nijboer wants to go back to it.' I would like Mrs Yeşilgöz not to ridicule the past, but to support what the whole region is asking of her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u30	I'm not making fun of the past, but I'm just showing where we came from and that wasn't an ideal situation either, far from it. Mr Nijboer finds the VVD right by his side when he tells me that he wants to direct as many people as possible about what happens to their environment and what happens to their home. I stand beside Mr Nijboer when he says that the municipality, the local administrators, the best know what such a district looks like and how it should be. Together, we'll get out of there in a minute. I myself have tabled several motions on behalf of the VVD. I still want people to have control over their own lives, that they can make their own decisions. A lot of owners and tenants have said to me: 'It's terrible. I just hear what has to happen to my house and then I have to wait two years for it. Tig inspections further I hear again what needs to be done.' I totally agree that we need to get rid of that, but you need a base somewhere where you first determine with each other what priority you're addressing the homes. What happened? On the basis of the model, on the basis of the Mining Council opinion, the Minister also sat down with the regional directors and extended it. He also said: 'It is also strange when a model comes out of such a model that one house under a hood must be reinforced and the other not; that does not make any sense. So we're just gonna take care of that; then they'll both be strengthened." That kind of business arrangement has been made. If they can do better, please, but you need an objective model to say what should happen first. With a better model, which Mr Nijboer is now pulling out of his pocket, I'm in. But you need an objective model to put security at the centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u31	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u32	I'm an economist and I love models, but I also know what they can't do. Just because it comes out of a model like this that one two-under-one-hood house is covered and the other one isn't, so you say "you do them all," don't you have any faith in that? And all these houses have their own history. At one house there is a kitchen attached and not at the other house. So you can't use that as a base for reinforcements. You know I've always been against that. And you can see that this didn't bring what the cabinet expected. Mrs Yeşilgöz recognizes that, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u33	I'm not here as an advocate of one model or another. I'm just saying this is now because of the lack of a better model. We know that independent agencies are developing new models. I hope they'll be ready soon. Mr Nijboer knows that this model has also improved on a number of points, because we discussed this with each other a few weeks ago. I don't care about that model. I just want an objective way to determine what is safe, what is unsafe and what needs to be addressed first, so that we don't go back to the blackbox time, when we didn't know that at all and people themselves didn't know it either. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u34	Mrs Yeşilgöz has spoken dozens of times about the grip on life for the Groningen people: the Groningen people must regain their grip on life. I'm incredibly curious what "grip on life" is for you. What does someone who's in a damaged house or waiting for backup have to do with that? What does the VVD mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u35	Two weeks ago, when many of us were at that play, I was in Groningen at noon. I was in the kitchen of an old, beautiful farmhouse, also with a lot of people from the neighborhood, with similar stories. These people told me that a few years ago they had bought the farm to enjoy their old age there. They weren't that old, by the way, but they had big dreams there. As in a lot of stories in Groningen, they had to deal with damage. Then these people have been in uncertainty for years. That's out of control of your life. That's the bureaucracy we all want to get rid of. Those are the countless inspections, hassles and counters we all want to get rid of. Those people say: I can't even paint my kitchen, because then those cracks are gone and then I get to hear again that I've been working on it and that's why people don't see what was going on anymore. That's terrible. That's losing control of your life. I do not want this to happen anymore, and many here want it to happen with me; I think that is true for everyone. That's just what we're trying to do together here. I say "just," but we've been trying for a long time and unfortunately it's not that easy. But it is: you can decide for yourself what your house will look like, you can decide how it will be strengthened and what will happen and you can also just sleep in your own house. Everyone I talk to says, "I don't sleep at all anymore." That's no longer having a grip on your own life, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u36	That is quite clear, but I would like to put it to you in this second question. What deadlines do you see for yourself? Because, of course, we've been hearing this for a long time. We also spoke to the people you spoke to. All the groups in this house have been there and have spoken to people, but the despondency is of course dripping away. That is also the reason for my speech. It just needs to be really noticeable and palpable in all those neighborhoods, streets and villages. What's the VVD like in that discussion? When is there sufficient grip on life for them? When?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u37	I also liked Mr Geleijne's speech. I also wrote that he said: not only on paper but also in the neighborhoods and on the street. I couldn't agree more. A year and a half ago we said: we're going to reduce to zero, the NAM is going to go everywhere, we're going to make things go away, we're going to make sure that it's legally well-founded because we don't want any more uncertainty, and we want customization. And now we see you can't accelerate anything with that. Then you keep getting bogged down in inspections and looking in: your house is different from your house. I was actually very happy that the Minister said in his letter last night: "I want to go to a standard approach, because then I can make speed. Unfortunately, I have to deviate from customization occasionally, and I am sure that we will meet again, because then there are people who say: yes but, hello, I have another story. There has to be room for that too, but if you try to make everything customized, then it doesn't work." As far as I'm concerned, it'd rather happen yesterday than today and rather tomorrow than the day after tomorrow, but I'm gonna be careful to call for things here that I can't deliver, so I'd like to hear from the Cabinet what it takes to get it at a pace that we can explain and get people to feel at ease, so that they can get the grip back on their lives. Again, today rather than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u38	I have a question for Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I would like to return to the letter; you mentioned it a few times. I read in the letter: "In drawing up this gear package, therefore, a better balance was sought between perfection and sailing." Now I've seen little perfection and very little speed. Don't you think this is a very unfortunate choice of words? And do you agree with me that we should speed up generously and result-oriented?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u39	As far as Mr Van der Lee's second question is concerned, I fully agree with him; we will be there right away. This must be generous and this must be done quickly, but we have been saying that to each other for some time. That is why I welcomed the letter, which contains very concrete steps, which clearly have been prepared for a very long time. For months now people have been talking to the region and TCMG and you name it. I find the timing agitated and beautiful at the same time. We'll talk about it here and the plans are there. I hope that speed will be guaranteed and regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u40	Then I have a follow-up question. Good thing you agree with me, by the way. You just indicated that standardisation is the solution. I have my doubts about that. I think that if you give people their own direction after a clear judgment and money has been made, you will probably create much more speed than a standard approach. At the same time, I had doubts as to whether I should say this. I sometimes feel sorry for you. In fact, you represent a party which has also Members who repeatedly suggest that Groninger himself is to blame or that the policies being developed may be abused and that perhaps that is why things are being made so complicated. Recently that was Ton Elias but I can also mention Onno Hoes; I also mention them by name. Will you please make it clear once and for all that you trust the Groningen people and that you want a generous and result-oriented approach to how we tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u41	I understand Mr Van der Lee's question, because he is right. Unfortunately, some former colleagues of mine occasionally appear in the media with statements that I also particularly hate and do absolutely no justice to how the VVD is in this, how the minister is in this and how I look at Groningers. I'm in contact with Groningers, and I try to work every day for Groningers. If Mr Elias spoke on behalf of the VVD, he would now be sitting here in the Chamber, in such a little blue chair. But he's not there; I am. I'm the spokesperson. I stand here every debate to say: I trust the Groningen people. I can feel their pain. I also understand very well the need for recognition and respect. Not only do I say that here, but I also say that in my many work visits in Groningen and in my many conversations in Groningen. I am glad that Mr Van der Lee gives me the opportunity to say this again. That is how the VVD is in this and that is not only because of me, but also because of those for me who have done this dossier. We want things to work out in Groningen and we're just like everyone else that they haven't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u42	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How many times have we been standing here to talk about the situation in Groningen, about the gas extraction and all the trouble that this has caused people? The Chamber adopts motions, the Minister makes decisions, but in Groningen people don't notice anything at all. How is that even possible? Why can't we quickly turn decisions into repairing damages, making houses safe and paying fees? The political will is there, isn't it, in the breadth of this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. All this is so frustrating. And if that's what we feel, how much more for people in Groningen? Last week, children showed that in a musical so very well. People feel tired, they feel powerless. Some of them are scared. I also read that people sleep with the lights on to get away quickly if there is an earthquake. Mr. Chairman. Safety must always be at the forefront. That's what the coalition agreement says. How's the cabinet gonna make this happen? Does this cabinet recognise that the current approach to damage recovery and reinforcement is insufficient? There's a national disaster going on. With the current bureaucratic system that has been rigged, it seems that we are not going to solve this crisis. Will this cabinet stand alongside the people in Groningen and will there be a crisis approach to deal with this situation, not only on paper, but also in practice? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, there are around 17,000 claims. That pile is only growing. It is good that the TCMG has proposed a number of measures to speed up the handling of damages. This package looks good. 9,000 people will be offered direct compensation of €5,000. But why does this one-off scheme not apply to damages until 1 June, so that the damage after the earthquake in Westerwijt was included? Does the Minister intend to make an effort to this end? And what do we do for the people who do not choose this arrangement? How do we prevent them from ending up in a bureaucratic swamp? Does the Minister hold on to the builder's variant, whereby people with damage up to €10,000 can call a contractor themselves to have the damage recorded and repaired? Mr. Chairman. Let's not forget the old damage too. There are still hundreds of claims files before March 2017. It is precisely here that we are dealing with complex damage and long-term legal conflicts in which people have ended up. How is the Minister going to carry out the motion of my colleague, Mr Beckerman, which we are also under and which I believe has been widely adopted? Mr. Chairman. The State surveillance of the Mines has advised that the damage approach and the reinforcement should be placed with one public organisation. Is the cabinet taking this advice? Let us ensure that there is a one-stop shop for residents quickly and that damage, recovery and reinforcement are fully taken up. It cannot be the case that the house is first strengthened and that it is only much later that the settlement of damages is at stake. People need to know what they're up to and know when they're next, so they can make plans for their homes and their lives again. The State surveillance of the Mines also advises, because of the safety of the people in Groningen, to reduce gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres in the coming gas year, assuming an average temperature. What is the Minister going to do to take this advice? Is he going to buy more gas, speed up the process for the nitrogen plant and reduce the consumption of Groningen gas? The Christian Union wants the Minister to make every effort to return to the 12 billion next year. Mr. Chairman. A lot of people feel trapped in their homes. They want to leave, but they can't leave. Will the Minister be committed to a buy-back arrangement? It's very good that we have a construction agreement. I would like to draw attention to the position of contractors. Let them work on the basis of trust. They now fear liability in the event of repeated damage. How does the Minister intend to respond to them? I also call for attention to be paid to the health of people, to mental and mental care. The pilot Together for recovery shows good results. Will the cabinet make funds available for broad implementation? Mr President, I will conclude. There'll be a meeting with the regional administrators tomorrow. Many agreements have been made, but the consultation must continue. I call on everyone to take a constructive stance: shoulder to shoulder for Groningen, because Groningen deserves that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u44	That was a whole list of wishes, more than rightly so. There is therefore much more to be done than the Minister has promised, including as far as the Christian Union is concerned. For this, you will receive the support of the PvdA. I have a question about something you did not mention, which is possible, because there is not so much speaking time, namely the guarantee scheme. That's what the region's asking for, so you're sure the government will vouch for if you buy a house. What is the position of the Christian Union on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u45	I've seen the request from the region. I have seen that there is a desire for a guarantee or buy-back scheme. How it is carried out, I would like to leave it in the middle for a moment, but for these people to find a solution, I think it is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u46	So you're in favour of some kind of guarantee scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u47	Yeah, if that can be done, I'd really like to. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response on this point. I mentioned the buy-back scheme myself. There's got to be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u49	Mr. Chairman. On 22 May we had another major earthquake in Groningen. I see and I hear perfectly reasonable and at the same time smurky people. That hurts. It is a shame that since the earthquake in Huizinge in August 2012, we still do not have things in order. And then there's a minister talking about a tick. That's where he really missed the point. Mr. Chairman. Edith Holscher had invited us in that week for her musical about the situation in Groningen. Brave children from the earthquake area held us in humor with which they struggle daily. Adults and children suffer from gas extraction and the misery seems far from over. That affects me and my colleagues from the CDA deeply. That brings me to the question of whether it is clear to everyone exactly where it is going wrong. Because I see a paper reality and a harsh reality for the inhabitants. That brings me to the next question to the Prime Minister. What message does this cabinet have for Groningen tomorrow? What's the bet? Will the Cabinet negotiate with Groningen on Wednesday, or will you and Groningen go solve the problems together? Mr. Chairman. The State surveillance of the Mines advises to reduce gas extraction more quickly, to strengthen faster and to come up with a crisis approach to ensure that reinforcement and damage handling is carried out independently and by one organisation. The CDA wants that opinion to be followed. Is that what the Cabinet's gonna do? The CDA line has always been: we follow advice from SodM. Mr. Chairman. The SodM says we have to lower the gas extraction. How's the Minister gonna do that? With regard to security of supply, can he identify the dilemmas and submit the choices to us? To what extent can large consumers be obliged to switch to other gas or other sources? Can we buy more nitrogen? Mr. Chairman. The CDA has been advocating a builder's variant for several months. Now the SodM is doing the same thing. I also read it back in the Minister's letter. Does this mean that contractors can get to work immediately? Is the implementation of the typology approach immediately started? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants the National Coordinator Groningen to be given the mandate and budget needed to solve the security problems in Groningen. Is the Minister willing to do that? Can the NCG scale up to the minister every week if necessary? And if so, what minister is that? Is that EZK or BZK? Are the roles clearly and clearly divided? The CDA would like to see the backup at BZK arrested. Mr President, I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u50	Me too. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u51	I'm hearing a number of things that I really agree with. I'd like to zoom in on the builder's variant. I understand the Minister is legally responsible for security. That's the point the Minister makes more often. He says: I am liable if the dwellings are not strengthened. That is why certain steps are needed. Could Mrs Mulder, the CDA, also live with an approach in which a builder's variant similar to that used in the damages settlement is applied? In doing so, reinforcement advice shall be made and implemented on the basis of knowledge. Afterwards it will be tested whether the quality is sufficiently in order. Now we do everything in advance, making us live in a paper reality. Because there is no or almost no van from a contractor and actually there is no reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u52	No, and that doesn't make it safe for the residents. I do think you should give the residents the opportunity to tell them which variant they want. 'Cause if you're a resident who wants everything ripped up, who am I to say here in the House of Representatives to that resident, 'I don't want that?' That simple variant should be available; just based on healthy farmers' understanding!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u53	That sounds good, but it's not really an answer to my question. I ask Mrs Mulder this question, but I also like to hear it from the cabinet. Is it even conceivable that you can test afterwards whether a reinforcement operation has been good enough? Or does it have to be all in advance, which means that we're stuck with that reservoir of assessments and nothing actually happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u54	I have argued in favour of a typology approach. TNO is passing that on now, but I told the Minister a few months ago that all of this is taking me far too long. I believe that this typology approach would enable us to tackle many houses directly. I don't see that right now. It's not happening now. And it really has to be done. Then maybe you didn't calculate it exactly to the decimal point, but then you're on the clock. Then you're strengthening those houses. That's what the locals need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u55	Please continue, Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u56	Then the Center of Safe Living. How is that decommissioned? How are we going to ensure that the workers there who have a heart for the region can get to work at the NCG? Mr. Chairman. It's mid-2019, the year of implementation. But I see everything but that performance. At the same time, the money flies out the door, but not to the inhabitants with damage. How is this possible? Are the latest damages not included in the new offer? How's the old, unsolved damage? Can the handling of the damage be accelerated further on the basis of child testing? I was impressed with those kids: simple, fast, human. Now stop robotic behavior. What's the Minister gonna do for that? Residents and entrepreneurs, especially agricultural entrepreneurs, should be back at the wheel. When will these farmers be clear about damage and reinforcement of their premises? Finally, Mr President. At the meeting in Hoogezand with the children I spoke to a gentleman about the situation in which he ended up because of the gas extraction. The Independent Councilman was there, too. I hope the Minister is willing to help this gentleman and others like him when there seems to be no way out at all. Is the Minister prepared to look with the Independent Councilman and the Special Situations Committee to see how these people can be helped? Mr President, the last point, because I can see that I only have a few seconds left. I hope that the Minister will also pick up and execute the other points from the email from CdK Easter that we received last night. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u57	I have the same question for Mrs Mulder as for Mrs Dik-Faber. Is it also in favour of a guarantee scheme? That was one of the points of the letter from the region. Then we can arrange that today, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u58	Whether it's a buy-back or a guarantee scheme, as long as something is arranged so that people aren't locked up in their homes anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u60	Mr. Chairman. Is this cabinet really going to work in Groningen? Is this cabinet really going to make sure that Groningers can go back to sleep with peace of mind? It was on 29 May 60 years ago that the Groningenveld was discovered at Slochteren. Over the last 60 years, the Netherlands has benefited hundreds of billions from this gas. But now that the earthquake problem is more than palpable, the Netherlands and this cabinet are still failing in practice. That quake at Westerwijtwerd was not a tick but a new and hard blow to the security of Groningers. With each quake of this caliber, the feeling of insecurity in Groninger increases exponentially. Therefore, putting away this quake as a "hiccup," as the Minister did, is incomprehensible and unacceptable. I don't live in Groningen, I don't have a family in Groningen, I even have very few supporters in Groningen, but when I heard this, the meter really turned red. Is this cabinet watching, is this minister really looking at Groningen like that? In the meantime, there are new advice from State surveillance and a letter from the cabinet. Another sign of goodwill. But as the State surveillance states, the big problem is not in good will. The main problem lies in the lack of adequate control. The question is: how and when is this cabinet going to ensure that in practice what is promised on paper? Make it a crisis approach, which requires existing frameworks to depart from, not parts, not half, but all at all. I read, for example, that part of the damages settlement is done away with the procurement rules. Fine, but do this for the reinforcement operation, and also, as the CDA has just indicated, opt for an unorthodox approach to the agricultural sector, so that these entrepreneurs and their families finally know what they are up to. The State surveillance advises to limit the role of the temporary committee of reinforcement in favour of the National Coordinator, to provide the National Coordinator with a sufficient budget and to arrive at a single institution for reinforcement and damage settlement. My question is: is this cabinet going to do the same? The cabinet wants to eliminate the reservoir of claims through a generous offer. But why only for claims prior to 1 January 2019, and not just for all notifications as long as necessary? State surveillance also advises to start immediately with the 300 already assessed buildings with an increased risk profile, rather yesterday than today. Why are these people still waiting? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday's letter talks about'stacked care'. I think that's the invisible hand that slows down. Mr Van der Lee also mentioned it earlier: there is also talk of 'a better balance between perfection and navigation'. We haven't seen perfection yet. Vaart just isn't there yet. So I would say: it is really high time for an unorthodox approach. If even an Orthodox party like the SGP says so, hopefully the Minister knows what time it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u62	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I visited the Albert Heijn in Loppersum. Each week, 9,000 customers get over the floor, each one living in fear and uncertainty because of the earthquakes. People are so sick of it. In that store, it's almost nothing else. Also for the sober Groningers, whom I know from their motto "head'r veur," it is enough. They've lost all confidence in the government. When we walked back to the train, the store owner said, "Look, this is the only pub in Loppersum." There were fences in front. He said that this has been the case for a year and a half and no one knows when the building will be opened again and made safe. A little later we walked past the doctor's house. "He can't handle the work," he said. Mr. Chairman. What is happening in Groningen is a disaster in slow motion and slow motion mainly refers to the enormous slowness with which the government restores the houses and makes them safe. And that's why, as a political team, we need to show what we're worth. There's a crisis and it's screaming for action. The approach must be simpler, faster and more effective. I say this not only as the son of a father and mother who were born and raised in Appingedam and who at home always heard Groningen around him because my parents spoke to each other, even when they lived in the middle of the country for years. I say this especially as a Dutchman who expects you to be able to count on the government if the need is for the man. Mr. Chairman. Hundreds of thousands of people have been hurt. I therefore ask the Prime Minister: how does he want his Rutte III cabinet to be remembered? If the cabinet faced and tackled this crisis or if the cabinet continued to millimeter to the perfect plan that never came as opposed to the next earthquake? We'd like to stop with that chirping. We want to make meters. With the offer of €5,000 to €11,000, there will be progress in repairing the damage, but why apply millimeters and the offer for damages until 1 January 2019? Then we'll talk about the backup. Can the residents really make a move in this respect? It's nice to have a construction agreement, but just give those people a building depot, so they have a budget to get to work with a contractor they trust. I just heard that a lot of contractors have been trained by the CVW, but they've never received an assignment. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. The regional leaders recently described seven directions for resolving the crisis in Groningen. In fact, we would like the ministers of EZK and of BZK to be prepared to get on with it without any ifs and buts. Are they willing to do that? We often hear about capacity shortages for reinforcement, but in Groningen and in many other cities in the country there are very smart students in engineering. Can we get them involved, too? Does the Secretary of State want to explore this opportunity? Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I saw how Loppersum became a desolate village, where people live constantly in fear. Unfortunately, there are many more places in Groningen. It can't go on like this. Politics has to show what it's worth. Make it easier, make it faster, make it faster! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u63	Thank you to Mr Sienot for his story. He ends with: Make pace and do it faster. He also asked the Prime Minister how he wanted the Rutte III cabinet to be remembered. I put that question to Mr Sienot. How does Mr Sienot want D66 to be remembered? As a party that takes care of the gas extraction and just says: safe is safe and we have to give the benefit of the doubt to the Groningen, so we'll stop extracting more than 12 billion cubic metres next year, sticking to the safe border of the SodM? Or does Mr Sienot say: no, it is best to postpone another year? So Mr Sienot supports a motion that says: 12 billion and no more cub. Or does Mr Sienot say: no, we can have uncertainty for another year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u64	We want to go to zero and as soon as possible. Since D66 is in this cabinet, something has also changed about gas extraction. That is a merit of the cabinet and of D66, which is in it. We're going down fast. I want the Minister to do everything in his power to get 12 billion cubs next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u65	Thanks for the answer. That's obvious. That Mr Sienot wants to go to zero, I share that with him. So I'll take my other motion to see him right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u66	As Mr Wassenberg has just said, Mr Sienot asks the Prime Minister how he wants this cabinet to be remembered. But, yes, it is actually a bit of Mr Sienot's cabinet, of D66. That's part of it. So then my question is the following. If the cabinet doesn't deliver now, if the cabinet doesn't keep the promises that have been made now, for the umpteenth time, what does D66 do? Does D66 then pull the plug from this cabinet because it doesn't want Rutte III to be remembered like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u67	For me, this is not really the most relevant issue. I understand that the PVV is wondering, but for me it's actually very simple. We need to get to work on strengthening and restoring it. I see a lot has been done for the recovery. I see that there is much and is being done for gas extraction, now we have to see results, including the reinforcement. I have just made a very clear appeal for this: just follow the advice of the region! We need to get to work on that. Those are the central questions for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u68	That all sounds nice, but the reinforcement is a mess, the phasing out of gas extraction is not fast enough and advice from the SodM to go to 12 billion cubs is simply not followed by this minister. So then my question to D66 is: if Mr Sienot wants this cabinet to be remembered properly, when will it be enough for him? What if the cabinet doesn't deliver now? It all sounds very nice what Mr Sienot says, but what if the actions fail? We've heard these promises a million times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u69	I agree with Mr Kops of the PVV. We also want to see results. I share that call with him to show it. That's why I'm saying show acceleration. But I also see something else. For gas extraction I see an acceleration of the phasing-out. We come from a period, not so long ago, in which we pulled 54 billion cubs out of the ground. It's less than 20 billion cube now, and that's not enough. We have to go to 12 billion cubs. We now have on the radar that we're going to go to 12 billion cube in 2020 and 2021, and underneath it. As far as I'm concerned, we'll do it sooner. That's what I just said. We have to do everything we can to make that happen. I see progress there. I also see progress in yesterday's letter on repairing damage. By the method mentioned in it plus the motion that was unanimously adopted last week to deal with 16,000 damage reports, thank you all for your support! I also see progression. I think there was a methodology proposed yesterday that would allow us to take a big hit. Remains over the backup. Then I call with you: it cannot go on like this!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u70	Yeah, it can't go on like this. Do you agree with our group and, fortunately, many parties that it should be really visible and tangible in a few months' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u71	I couldn't agree more. It's not gonna do us any good if it's just words. It won't do us any good if it stays at the board table. We need to get it to the kitchen tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u72	So D66 agrees that what's happening in Groningen really is a crisis? We are also tackling these consequences as a crisis. And in a few months' time, so let's say when we speak again after the summer recess, in September, there really has to be a difference for a lot of Groningers compared to today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u73	That is certainly the case. And that can only be the case, because otherwise, for example, we will not achieve the number of claims we tabled a motion on last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u74	I would just like to ask a question about the interruption debate I had earlier with Mrs Mulder about a builder's variant in the reinforcement and about ex post testing rather than prior checking. I am concerned that the typology approach will cause a great deal of delay, because it is all in advance. Municipalities say in my direction that they can simply issue an environmental permit, with a test on the NPR. Then you can just check it out afterwards. Does Mr Sienot think that it would be good if the cabinet were to investigate this variant very seriously, because it might offer the best prospects for speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u75	All the variants with which we can accelerate the situation have my support. I would like to add something. I see different routes. I don't think there's any approach. I didn't ask you for nothing, just like you did earlier, for a building depot. I see as a route that we allow people who know a contractor and want to work there to do so. Then there's the typographical approach. Why should you have to do the same type of home every time for every home................................................................................................................................................... For the same type of house in the same area they already know very well what needs to be done. Then you can make meters. So that's how I see different ways. I'm sure there are more ways, including the way you describe it. We just have to pick it up and use it to measure where it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u77	We will continue the debate on the Groningen earthquake. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u78	Mr. Chairman. First things first, and then I'll get straight to the point. The division of labour is procedural: all questions about the letter will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for the Interior. There are three of us here, so I can imagine that you would like to ask me about acceleration, about how, about the role of the NCG et cetera, but given the division of roles, my question really is to respect that the answers to those questions are given by the two ministers. They will of course also answer a number of other, more specific questions. This is the first time I've been standing here in a specific Groningen debate. We have talked about it in the General Reviews and in retrospective debates, but not in a specific Groningen debate. This is the first time. Therefore, I really want to share a few things with you in an introductory manner. The cabinet, myself, hates what is happening in Groningen now, what has happened over the past ten years, but also what has happened over the past 50 years. I sincerely apologize on behalf of the government for that. This is a slow-motion crisis. It has all the elements of a crisis, a crisis in slow motion, but it's a crisis anyway. It has begun that safety in Groningen has played no part in the discussion on natural gas extraction for a very long time. That has only become a theme since the earthquake in the eighties and it has become a real theme even today it has been remembered since the terrible earthquake in 2012 in Huizinge. It was only then that it really became a theme in the discussion. Secondly, excuses for the fact that I have said so on television before, but never here in the House of Representatives, and that is why I would like to have said so here as well: when we started, from 2012, to try to solve this terrible misery for the people of Groningen, we have completely underestimated from the outset what enormous task we had before us. I once said: something that started out as something beautiful, namely Groningen as the energy province of Europe, ended up in a nightmare. A task in damage recovery, in strengthening. It's really not well-assessed, from the beginning. We have underestimated that, and I should like to say that I apologise for that, not only on television, but also in the Chamber. The third element is that, once we have started working on the whole issue of the approach, we have put too much emphasis in recent years on the precision of legal certainty. That has simply been at the expense of speed. That's exactly what Wiebes writes to the Chamber. I didn't quote the literal sentence, I paraphrased it. Apologies fit for that, too. I'm not blaming anyone for that. It has been worked very hard by a lot of people, in Groningen and in The Hague, by everyone who has been involved. No one has been concerned with the idea: we are going to make this misery worse. The letter that has been sent, we can talk to each other about the measure, about what needs to be done and how fast and when it should be visible, and it has only one purpose, and that is that legal reality, that precision. No matter how well we meant it with his alone, and I really want to say that: I don't want to blame anyone at the NCG, at the Safe Living Centre and at the county, municipality, the Ministry of Economic Affairs: great people are working everywhere, trying to get out of this nightmare. The fact is, however, that the policy choices we have made have been too focused on legal elements, and I cannot blame them for that. And may I also say that to Groningen: excuses fit for that too, because that has been at the expense of speed. Then things went wrong, too. We have spoken before about shutting down the damage recovery in 2017. That's what we've been talking about. The trouble with the backup. Specific issues that arose there. The spike in the winnings in 2013. All these things we can discuss separately and find all kinds of things. There are always explanations for this, and that also applies: everyone had the best intentions. But in essence: excuses for what has been done to Groningen and the fact that the too late realization of the enormous impact this has had on safety was not an element. Secondly, I apologize for the total underestimation, from the beginning, from 2012, of what a huge bone this is. And over the past few months, a few years, the balance is not right. This whole letter is designed to restore that balance. I am committed to saying that here, on my part and on behalf of the entire cabinet. I did so in the media and sometimes in other debates, but this is the first time I have been allowed to say that in a Groningen debate. I see there are questions at this stage, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u79	I'm sorry, but it's a lot of smooth talk from this Prime Minister, as we're used to. A lot of excuses, too. How many times have we heard that word? Apologies. Yeah, it's about time for what it's worth. But it is the Prime Minister who said recently: the gas tap cannot close faster next year, because otherwise the elderly in Limburg would freeze to death because of a shortage of gas. Then I really wonder: what kind of strange thing is that in that way Groningers and Limburgers are being played against each other? Does the Prime Minister apologize for that statement? And can he promise that next year the gas tap will actually go to 12 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u80	I am not apologizing; I want to explain it all. If those words were not well chosen, I should have reworded them. I didn't want to say anything but this. Everyone prefers to turn off the gas valve today, at zero. Not 12 billion, but zero, today, quit, done, over. But I can't. Because if you do that now and you know that an important part of the gas supply in the Netherlands is still dependent on the Groningen gas, then you take risks. That is what I have tried to express with that apparently not very good example. Limburg versus Groningen: it could also be a nursing home in Groningen; that is of course not relevant at all. It's about that, if you do it too fast and there would be a cold winter and you come below a certain level of security of supply, then you run a risk. That's what Wiebes is about, because we're extremely committed to getting that 12 billion next year. Or we can, we really need to look at it together. We cannot say this with each other now: that is a guarantee. It's an effort obligation. It can't be a guarantee, because you have to map how much gas is needed, also taking into account cold weather and so on, and you have to consider how fast you can switch off. That is being worked hard and I would point out that, when the cabinet started, we were on a phasing-out plan, where we were from.. what was it? 23 to 21.3 went. I believe that at the end of the cabinet period we had reached 20 or so. We have made a dramatic decision to do so much faster. As far as I'm concerned tomorrow is zero, but that simply cannot be done. I don't want to go into the technical question of how fast to 12. That's what Wiebes is gonna say. But this is what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u81	The gas crane will go to zero tomorrow, no, it will not work, but that crane can be shut down faster than it is now. The SodM also advises that, especially if we know that gas is still being exported, and if we know that we can also import gas. So that crane can actually close faster, and that is of course the core of the whole discussion. The gas tap has to close, that's the problem, because that's what the earthquakes come through. If this cabinet can't take that advice from the SodM, it can't promise that that's going to happen. That's the first thing that needs to happen! Then all these slippery talk is nothing but political opportunism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u82	Yes, I understand it all from Mr Kops, but it is also a contribution in capital letters. I am trying to make it clear here that as a political parliament and a government, we have a responsibility to bring the gas crane back to zero as soon as possible, but in a way that we keep it safe, in Groningen in the first place. I just said it's priority number one. But if you did it too soon... That's what Wiebes is about to go into. We've been able to shut down a lot of foreign customers. He has already succeeded with EZK and anyone who has worked hard to reduce exports. But if you now say "guarantee 12" without knowing for sure that it can be safe, then you take risks. Wibe's gonna go into that in a minute. I really want to refer to that, because he is all prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u83	I would like to say that it is really a special time for a Prime Minister to apologize in three areas. It doesn't happen often. I would like to value that in Parliament. The Prime Minister also emphasizes that. I would like to ask a question about exactly what he means by his third apology. Does he also see that if the cabinet had handled it differently, the security of Groningers would have been greater now than with the approach taken in recent times? That's what State surveillance on the mines says. Would you like to apologize for that, too? Do you share that analysis? I'd like to hear exactly what the Prime Minister means by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u84	There's no telling. We, as politicians, have said that this has happened in consultation with everyone, with the Chamber of Deputies at some point: we have here an issue of hercule proportions; it has been underestimated from the outset in its size. That is also my first point. An acceleration has then been introduced under this Minister. In January 2018 he was the one who started to stop where the damage recovery was for far too long, with the TCMG and everything that happened to speed up. Now, if you look at what we all thought was wise then, the legal side, the security side, has been looked very closely at. The other day, I went out with a damage taker in Loppersum. They are really very sweet, fantastic people who are doing their best to record those damages as well as possible and to do all that properly, but it is of course also a whole bureaucracy in the end. That balance must be restored. You can't answer a question like that what it would be like if you... Besides, we didn't think: we're going to do that balance, because then we're going to take more risks? If we had, we wouldn't have done that, would we? You can't say that for sure, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u85	I'm gonna ask you about it in a minute. On the one hand, there is the recognition that is equestrian: three times the apology that the needs are great in Groningen. The question is of course: what do you buy in practice, what is the follow-up? We had a letter yesterday. Those are steps in the right direction, you might say. At the same time, however, the region says that so much more is needed. Then the question is, what's underneath that apology? Do you acknowledge that safety is not enough? That there should be a guarantee scheme? That there's still so much stress? All these calls from the region that it has to go to 12 billion cubs as soon as possible? What state surveillance says? Do you acknowledge that this must be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u86	There must be a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u87	Then why didn't you put that in the letter yesterday? Because you knew yesterday that you would apologize today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u88	Yeah, but that letter almost totally follows Easter's letter. We can see with Wiebes where exactly there are differences. Things like, for example, the 12 billion, which we say "we need to know for sure that it can be safe," Wiebes will go into this in more detail. There's no one in the cabinet... We talk about it every Friday. That's no good to anyone either. What's the point of telling me here that the Council of Ministers talks about Groningen every Friday? It doesn't make anyone any better, it doesn't make anything safer. Those are all the talk nobody's waiting for, but it's a fact. You do not have to doubt, with me or with anyone in the Council of Ministers and in the Cabinet, that this is the absolute top priority for us. It's a matter of honor to get this done. This nightmare has to pass. We know: if the entire gas extraction goes back to zero, experts say that there are still risks of tremors, even in the future. We do know that if the gas extraction goes back further, the quake risk will also decrease. That's one side. The people who have cracks in their homes due to the earthquakes, literally floors that threaten to split apart because the house is built on several pieces of land, must be able to live safely again and the homes must be strengthened where necessary. There is no beginning to doubt anyone in this cabinet. The same was true of the previous cabinet and it is true of this cabinet. I'm not asking for understanding, but I'm going to explain the herculean nature of that assignment, the enormous mission that was there from 2012 and the underestimation of what that means in his logistics, in his infrastructure and in his execution. This is not something we can just say in the world: you are taking the approach off the shelf. There isn't one. We try to gain experience in practice. That means that sometimes you also make choices that you say: that balance is not right. That balance is not good between too legally precise and therefore no speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u89	The Prime Minister goes through the dust here and apologizes for three things. I would like to continue with Mr Nijboer's question: what good are the excuses? I have had to make a great deal of effort to get Mr Rutte to the Chamber on this subject for a very long time. It is only now that this has been achieved, while Mr Rutte himself can come to the Chamber if this matter is a priority. I would like to believe those excuses, but I agree with Mr Nijboer's question as to what this really means. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: why are you coming here right now? Why not last year when you said we're doing it nicely? Why not at a time when the reinforcements were shut down? Or when it turned out she was suspended again? Is this because there's pressure from the parliament now? Or are you convinced of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u90	A few things. Firstly, I have been following Mrs Beckerman for a long time. I know she does this file like everyone else here with heart, body and gut. The fact that I have not been here before in a plenary debate is perhaps my fault; I should have done so sooner. Of the apologies I just made, that last point is a completely new point: the balance sheet. I already made the other two on TV. As early as 2017 in a TV broadcast by Pauw & Jinek, I told the Groningers: we totally underestimated the logistics problem and the big issue. Secondly, we have done a terrible service to Groningen by not paying attention to safety from the end of the fifties. That, if you're being very honest, has actually only come into the picture from Huizinge. There have been signals before, I believe that Van der Lee and others said so, but actually that was only from 2012. You have to believe me: yes, those excuses are very, very serious. That's all I can say. This is how I feel. Okay, here's to the advocacy. The role of the government consists of two things; much more complicated is not political either. We all have to make sure that the country is a country in which people can excel their talents, especially because there is a good economy and we keep the country safe. In Groningen safety has simply been subordinate to gas extraction for too long. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's That's wrong. So if I apologize, it's because it's going to go to the heart of why I'm in politics. At the core, jobs and safety are the task for which I am here. None of us do that the way we're sitting here for the money, I take it. If people were really materialist driven, they'd be doing other things. We all do it, whether it's PVV, or SP, or everything in between, because we love this country and because we want to talk about Groningen here tonight. If things go wrong, then we all take it, and I as Prime Minister in the first place, very personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u91	The Prime Minister says that the last apology is new. The Prime Minister says: excuses that the emphasis has been too much on legal aspects; we need to find a balance. But that is also the most common excuse, because the emphasis has not been too much on legal certainty. You've chosen time and time again for the security of your Shell wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u92	Not since 2013. That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u93	The Prime Minister's reaction is: we're talking about something from 2013. But it's not gonna get going, I just mentioned someone who's got the struts now because the money doesn't come loose, because we have to go to the NAM every time to arrange the money. Is that gonna stop now? Are we gonna get people started right away and the Groningers won't notice any more of this shit, well, your friends at Shell?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u94	I can assure you that this is what we are committed to. We are doing everything we can to reach an approach. It's in the letter. It has been said from the Chamber that there are many points in the right direction. There are also questions. That is what you are going to discuss with Wiebes in a moment. Everything is aimed at restoring that balance. But here's what I was gonna do. It's not because of the money. If we can get back to zero tomorrow, we'll go back to zero tomorrow. We're not going back to zero tomorrow because we're thinking we're gonna make another billion out of that gas extraction. That's not why. That applies to the entire coalition, and I assume it will also apply to the entire opposition. If it can go back to zero tomorrow because we suddenly invent something that can make my gas set work on something other than what's coming out of that pipeline now, we'll cover it. That was my point, but that is not constructive either, so let me forget that. Mrs Beckerman is simply asking a fair question. Our goal with what lies here is to restore that balance so that there is more speed. But if I put that down here, I also do not want to give the impression that someone has thought: we are going to make that balance as it was, because we had some other purpose with it. It has also been a quest: how do you do this insane task that lies there in a decent way where you treat equal cases as equally as possible? And then you notice at some point that that has gone too far into legal certainty. That's the analysis that's been made over the past few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u95	I heard the Prime Minister right. He also acknowledges that a lot has gone wrong in Groningen. That's the past. It is now a national crisis. I know the Prime Minister as a doer, as the leader of a party of doers. My question is therefore quite simple: what is the Prime Minister really going to do, now that he has acknowledged all this, as the leader of this cabinet to make it a millimeter meter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u96	Carry out the letter. That's the letter as it is, plus the one we'll be discussing tonight in the debate. That's my goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u97	That is an understandable answer, but it is actually not enough, if I am being very honest. After all, people have heard a great deal about this. When I say to people "there's a fantastic letter," people say: yes, another letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u98	Yeah, but running, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u99	What I want to hear is this. What else is going to happen, which will result in the implementation of the programme, which will speed up the strengthening process, which will speed up the recovery process? How are we gonna detonate the numbers? That's what we're looking for. How will the leader of this cabinet contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u100	There is no magic wand that can be arranged tomorrow. I fully understand the question that Mr Sienot is asking, and he may also ask me, because in the end I am the boss of the stuff. So he's right to say, the buck stops here, I'm coming to you. It goes beyond just these rulers, it is also Agriculture, it is also VWS, it is also Education. Everyone's involved. We're working on it as a collective team. That's why we talk about it all the time as a collective team. In the letter, it's about restoring balance. There are all measures in place to speed up the recovery of damage. For the reinforcements, things really have to happen. There will soon be another discussion about damage recovery: can you already give legal certainty that you can go from 1 January to 1 June? Soon Wiebes will talk to you about that. After today, that will also have a few follow-ups, I expect, and as far as I am concerned, very quickly. As far as we are concerned, too, because it is not the case that I have to push them. It was Eric Wiebes who said at the beginning of 2018: I am furious that the damage recovery in that entire formation has stalled; I am now going to pick this up and come up with an approach within two weeks. I believe it was 16 days in the end, not 14 days, but he came up with that approach. That led to that CTMG. I'm sorry, I mean the Kortmann Committee. The idea was, also in the discussion with the Chamber, that you had a good balance between security and execution. But as I just said, that balance just doesn't seem right. It's just not right. That's why it's too slow. If Mr Sienot asks me what I'm going to do next, I say I don't have to push them up. This is something we do together, that we stand for. I am extremely committed to making this a success, because it is a matter of honor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u101	Many thanks to the Prime Minister. I have not often seen such a clear apology being made in a three-step process. It is very important that this has happened. At the same time, I hear him say that too, it is a recognition of the cabinet that it is a crisis in slow motion. However, as a State, we do not have an adequate response to this. We cannot call for a state of emergency. After the financial crisis, we had a Crisis and Recovery Act, but that is not very appropriate either. But there has to be something about that. Executing the letter might be a start. There's a timeline for bringing back gas extraction. This should be even faster, given the advice of the SodM. But there must also be an obligation to achieve results for damage and strengthening, with a clear date. I will not pin the Prime Minister on that date, but if he is to apologize to this extent, there must be something to that effect, so that we and the Groningen will be able to pay the cabinet for results in all three areas in the future. Can he make that promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u102	I do not think that is an unreasonable question, but there is an order before you can answer that question properly. Tonight's the discussion about the letter. I'm trying to see through my eye hairs the first term of the Chamber. For example, there is a lot of criticism of gas extraction. For example, the discussion with Wiebes will take place about this 12 kuub, about what can and can't be done and how fast it will go. Then there is criticism on June 1st and January 1st. That will be discussed in the near future. That part of the debate leads, I expect, to a brief follow-up after this, because there are a few things that need to be checked legally, so that we are really sure that we are doing well. It's not about us judging it again, it's about us really doing it right. There may be other things, too. This leads to a further follow-up. Then we've got it in focus, too. And then tomorrow there will be administrative consultation of the two with the directors in Groningen. Then we also have a joint plan, because the letter from Easter is actually largely our letter. And the letter we send is actually largely a response to Easter's letter. Okay, that's just a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u103	I've listened very carefully. I tasted something of a commitment, but in the end it disappeared. I want the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u104	Yeah, look...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u105	If you'll let me finish...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u106	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u107	I would like to give the cabinet time in itself, but I do think it is important that an obligation to achieve results is agreed. In the legal sense, I understand the need for a better balance, but in the end one thing has to be guiding. And if a clear result is agreed, it will lead the process and one will search until the result is achieved. If it stays with the search for a balance, maybe you'll keep doing it for eternity. I'd like to watch for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u108	In my view, this debate is important because, with the criticism that still exists, there is support for reversing the balance sheet from legal to rapid. That's my gut. I don't think there's any more discussion about that. The question now, also in the administrative consultation tomorrow and in the letter from Easter, is how we can bring these two as close as possible together and how we can ensure that there is an approach that is going to work, where we already have a very concrete approach to repairing the damage with the thresholds for the old cases. However, there will still have to be an impact on reinforcement on the basis of the administrative consultation tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u109	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u110	Rounding up. The administrative consultations will take place. I would ask you to come back afterwards and report to the Chamber as to whether it is possible to agree on strengthening, the settlement of damages and the extraction of gas a clear obligation to achieve results. If it isn't, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u111	We're gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u112	I hope it works, and I'd like to hear it. But if we can't, I want to know, too, because then we can better manage expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u113	Okay. We'll get back to you then. I think I can do it myself, but I really want to weigh that up before I say yes now, because then it will all be free here on my side. So I really want to know for sure how we do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u114	The Prime Minister is apologizing for what has gone wrong. That is historic and very important, but I still have a few questions about it. He also said: I already apologized in 2017 in a television programme; they were about us underestimating the size of the problem. That was 2017. Then there would be an earthquake in 2018 of 3.5 on the Richter scale. Then the Minister of EZK said: government failure of non-Dutch proportions. Then the 2019 earthquake came to an end. So excuses have been made, but then there were two more large earthquakes and dozens of smaller earthquakes in between. What are the Prime Minister's words worth if he continues to put that security of supply at the centre? He says security is at the top, but we can't just go back to 12 billion cubs. That is what the SodM puts at the heart of security. He says, "We want to, everybody wants to, but we can't." It turns out that security of supply is central and not security. Because then you would say that the 12 billion will be the limit and then we'll see how we can fit that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u115	Can I try to be very sharp? There are two aspects in my head that I completely separate. If that does not work for Mr Wassenberg, he must say so in his response. On one side of the wall is the gas extraction. We need to get it back as soon as possible, not to 12, but to zero. There are no financial considerations not to go back to zero faster than can be. The only consideration is that you have to avoid that by doing it too fast, well, I'm not going to repeat what I just said in cold winters a problem with security of supply comes. I seem to have just turned Groningen and Limburg against each other; Mr Kops just pointed that out to me. I didn't mean to, but I tried to use that example to point out that there would be nationwide risk. Okay, that's one piece. There is no other consideration. There's no ulterior motive not to go back to zero. There's no financial motive; I'm underlining it here again, with capital letters. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u116	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u117	No financial motive. The other side of the wall is: even if the gas extraction goes to zero tomorrow, the earthquake risk is not gone yet. Gas extraction can't go back to zero tomorrow. Hopefully the gas extraction can return to twelve as soon as possible and then very quickly back to zero. Anyway, if you go back to zero, you're gonna have an earthquake risk. So you keep the issue of the existing damage and also a question of strengthening. That's the other side in my head of the wall. That's where we didn't mean it wrong... I think it's a chamber and cabinet thing. We've been looking for each other, we've taken initiatives, we've made proposals, we've discussed them with each other. By Wiebes, an approach was devised at the beginning of 2018, when the entire damage recovery stopped. That approach, if you look at it now, is to say: we wanted to do it too precisely. Eventually it is also dimensioning the execution. How do you do that? How do you ensure that this happens neatly, that equal cases are treated equally, that people can appeal and so on? At the same time, it has become too heavy and threatens to collapse due to its own weight. That is why there are now proposals to speed up damage recovery, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u118	That is absolutely true, also that we have to go back to zero and not to twelve. We're at 16 right now. The SodM says we have to go back to 12 first, because then we have a safe situation. This means that we have a situation where the risk of earthquake does not increase. That is the case now. So we need to get to the SodM as soon as possible. Next year, we're gonna have to go back to 12. Then we have to go to zero. I ask the Prime Minister to follow that advice from the SodM. It has nothing to do with financial incentives. SodM says 12 billion is safe and we have to go to zero as soon as possible. This can be done faster than 2030, but my question is why we are not going straight to the safe level. I know that the problems will not be solved tomorrow or the day after tomorrow if we turn off the gas tap today. What I do know is that the problem won't get any bigger if we turn off the gas valve now. With the gas extraction of 16 billion cubic metres a year, we will continue to make the problem bigger. So my plea is: first next year back to 12, as the SodM says, and then to zero as soon as possible. What I'd like to record now is that 12. Why don't we go to 12 as fast as we can? What else does that have to do with it, except for the security of supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u119	That security of supply is relevant, isn't it? I really do not understand Mr Wassenberg. We don't make choices in isolation here, do we? They're choices with consequences, aren't they? You have to weigh it up if you were to say as a cabinet that next year we are going back to 12 anyway and if you know that that would mean that in a cold winter we would have to cut parts of the country, households, from the gas supply, or to large industries where thousands and thousands of people work, say: sorry for your jobs, but we have to shut down the factory; then you go bankrupt? That's the problem, isn't it? That's the point we're working on. There is no financial consideration. The point is that it is safe in Groningen, priority one, two and three. But safety also means that if you go back into gas extraction, you can do that in a way that you don't have to switch off parts of the country in a cold winter. That's what it's all about, and that's what Wiebes needs to figure out and discuss with you. Of course, our ambition is to go back to 12 next year, but we're not sure. We still think that's where we're at risk. That needs to be mapped out very carefully and we will discuss it with you. Those are decisions we have to make together. But it's kind of a risk you're gonna take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u120	Finally, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u121	So the Prime Minister says that the SodM's advice to go back to 12 next year is irresponsible. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u122	No, because the SodM says: from our responsibility we think it is best from security if we go to 12. In the law it is so arranged that the cabinet has to make a decision. Once again, it is not a matter of financial consideration. The balance must also be made against the following background: if you would do so, you know at the same time that parts of the country will be switched off from the gas grid in a cold winter and that people in severe freezing cold are thus without heating; hence my unfortunate example from a nursing home in Limburg or wherever it is, also in Groningen. That's the balance we have to make. Wiebes will be discussing with you what we already know and what we hope to know soon. But that's where it is. I say to Mr Wassenberg: he doesn't want that, does he? That's a real trade-off, isn't it? I feel like I'm defending something that I think is perfectly normal. You try to go to 12, but if that means taking big risks with a lot of Dutch people in the cold in a very cold winter, wouldn't you also tell us that as a government we can't do that? It's not a crazy request to you to consider that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u123	The Prime Minister has just indicated that Minister Wiebes of EZK will deal with this later. I think that we in the House of Representatives should also make that assessment. So let it be clear what it means when you go back to 12 billion cube. Then we'll have to take care of it. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his sincere apologies, which will also give recognition to Groningen. I think it's very necessary to be able to get on with each other at all. I asked the Prime Minister what message these two ministers will send to Groningen tomorrow. Are they getting everything they need tomorrow or is there still a brake somewhere? I just want to know, because the points that CdK Easter e-mailed us last night should also be resolved. I just want it fixed for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u124	No brakes. Financially, there's no brake. Furthermore, Wiebes will address a few aspects: can you do 1 June instead of 1 January and what are the risks? I think that we should come back to this with each other on the basis of the mapping of that legal point. From the gas extraction Easter says: go back to 12. We have just talked about this; this has to do with the security of supply. There are no political or financial constraints.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u125	I thank the Prime Minister for this commitment. Does he also fully accept the other points of the SodM opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u126	Then we'll talk about the whole SodM advice. We have the letter from Easter and the entire SodM advice. I really want to ask... Wiebes prepared the answer to that in detail. I fully support that response, which we prepared with each other this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u127	The Prime Minister says that there are no financial reasons and no financial brakes and that money does not matter. If he says that, does he think that there should be a general pardon, so that we now put a big line under all those thousands of damages and so that we will pay all those damages directly or we will strengthen them immediately? Is that why he's here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u128	I am for what we included in the letter on damages. "General please" does not mean that other people should say "thank you." That's what Wiebes will explain. That's out of the question. We ask no one in Groningen to thank you. In Groningen, confidence in politics and the cabinet is minus one hundred. I have no illusion that it will ever come above zero, but I do have the ambition to do everything in my power to solve the misery. I don't do that to get popular there, because that's not a goal. On the contrary, that is all hopeless. Now it's about solving the problem. There are therefore no personal, political, financial or other interests. If that term "general please" does not work, we will do it differently, but may I have said once that the meaning of that term is not that others say "thank you"? That's out of the question. We didn't go crazy. Of course not. As if you were going to ask someone in Groningen: can you please say "thank you"? Then I'll come back to a statement I made about another problem once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u129	I wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u130	That was in the 2017 campaign. I will not repeat that, because that is not parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u131	Of course, that is not an answer to the question, because what is in the letter is not a general pardon at all. That doesn't apply at all to all cases of damage. A lot of people just fall out of the boat with that. So again the question: if money doesn't play a role, why isn't there a big line behind all these damages and isn't there a direct payment? That would really help a lot of people, so why doesn't the Prime Minister want that? Especially now that we know that the Minister of EZK has said that this government failure is of non-Dutch proportions. That's some kind of confession of guilt. Then why isn't payment made immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u132	We're gonna take away a giant reservoir of misery with what's now lying around, we think. There is still discussion about January 1st or June 1st, but you are going to remove an insane reservoir of misery. I just think this is a very sensible, decent proposal. I would like to refer to Mr Wiebes, who will be holding the debate on this with you shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u133	I understand that it is a lot of interruptions, Mr President, but it is difficult because I want to be able to assess what these excuses are worth. It has been said: this is a special moment, a unique moment. Mr Rutte himself came back from that by saying: I made these same excuses, at least two out of three, in 2017. This is true of the excuse'security was not paramount' and for the excuse 'we have been underestimated what great task was ahead of us'. I wonder if this means that the Prime Minister says he'll extend that excuse by two years. He says: over the past two years, too, we have still underestimated the enormous task ahead of us. Does he apologize for that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u134	Mrs. Beckerman is about to cut this and paste it again. But she's right: I probably should have been here sooner. This is the first time I have been in a plenary debate on Groningen. What I deeply feel is that on three crucial points, one in the last few years and two longer, we have not helped Groningen very well. That balance is never meant to be evil. Hundreds of people are trying to get this right and do it right. I don't want to kick any of them or tell them you did it wrong. We have not struck the balance right and we are now redeploying it. Groningen is sitting in the gallery, you are sitting here in the Chamber, and I say to you as Prime Minister from the heart: this is what I feel about the Groningen dossier. These three important elements have gone wrong. I apologize for that, on behalf of the entire Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u135	I believe that this has been said a few times, Mrs Beckerman, so I suggest that you ask your last question, at least in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u136	That's right, Mr. Chairman. But it is difficult, because if it is 2021, does the Prime Minister say again: I apologize again for underestimating what huge task was ahead of us? Because that is actually the case: in 2017 and 2019 the same excuse. Have you done enough for the past two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u137	I'm gonna get into that. I can only stay with my own feelings. I can translate that politically into an apology I make here because I can do it on behalf of the government, because we feel it collectively. As a sitting cabinet, you take responsibility for recent history, so for that 50, 60 years of gas extraction. At the end of the 1950s the gas was discovered and I believe that gas went through a pipe for the first time in 1963. So I don't remember exactly, but at least it's about 50, 60 years of gas extraction. Groningen and all of us thought the Netherlands would become a kind of Saudi Arabia of gas. Groningen would become the energy province of Europe, but it ended in a nightmare. It's been neglected for so long. I do not believe that people have done all that on purpose, but the fact is that until 2012 we neglected the risks that were involved. That's serious. This requires me to speak to you and all your colleagues here in Parliament, for the first time in a plenary debate on Groningen. Groningen sits there in the gallery; administratively and with a lot of people. I'll tell the room, too. That point of the past few years: it's a search. I can't guarantee here that we'll never make a wrong decision about Groningen again. That's not to be given. There's nothing on the shelf that tells you what to do when you're collecting natural gas in wetland and there's a fall in soil and earthquakes. There's no game plan to fix that. There's no such thing. We're making that with all of us right now. That's the whole problem, too. When the approach to repairing the damage came in 2018, it was at that time the absolute conviction that, after seven months of silence in the formation, we could make an acceleration. That has happened, but far too slow. We want it to go much faster. Then I say, "That's not good." But I can't guarantee here, if Mrs Beckerman asks, that we'll never make a wrong decision again. That is what politics will do in the future. Wrong decisions will occasionally be made. But let's talk about that and assume that sensible people want to do sensible things in the best of intentions. We cannot always fall back on a precise plan of action in this respect because it is just new. With this type of soil, this problem and on this scale, we are doing something that has never happened before. That's epic indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u138	I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u139	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I think it would be appropriate to say something first about my whole stupid slip of the tongue. Mr Van der Lee has asked me to do so. And Mr Wassenberg has asked me a specific question on this. During my visit to the earthquake area I was confronted with a lot of anger and despair. That's why it's extra stupid to make a really stupid mistake. That was hurting for the people in Groningen. I apologized for that right after. I repeated that the next day, but it is appropriate to repeat it here. Mr Wassenberg asked what were you trying to say? Not that it exonerates me, but I tried to say "I've done that very unfortunately at the time" that I don't need an earthquake, whatever earthquake, to realize that it has to be faster. That's what we agreed on weeks ago, before that, and I was working on it. Then the question of how it can get through your head faster, and at some point you use a stupid word, something you don't mean. I hope, at least, that Mr Wassenberg is prepared to accept that there is not a minister here who has a serious view of the second-largest earthquake in the earthquake zone that it is a small quake. I hope he's willing to assume that this was an extremely stupid slip of the tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u140	I get that. I understand it was a stupid slip. I accept the apology, too. The reason I asked was that such a qualification was really the very last thing Groningen needed. The apologies should not be addressed to me or to the Chamber, but especially to the people involved. In this respect, I do think it is valuable that the Minister should really distance himself from that and apologize; again, not for us but for the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u141	Sure. And if you try to say something else, but you don't say it right, you cause a lot of grief to all kinds of people. Mr. Chairman. The situation has been explained in all kinds of ways. There are a lot of worries. I can only acknowledge it. It is a fact that I also acknowledge that not all houses in Groningen are sufficiently safe. I also see that the reinforcement new style is not yet on pace. I still support my ruling on government failure. Yeah, I see the disruption, too, with people at the table. Those are very difficult conversations, but everyone here knows that. And yes, the figures that Mr Van der Lee mentions about what has been strengthened since 2012 seem to me to be correct. That's true. I think the qualification about how this came from Mrs. Dik-Faber. She said it heartily: we've decided a lot, but people haven't noticed it yet. And that's true; that's right. We're in a situation where almost everything had to change. Gas extraction had to change. The organization had to change. The role of the NAM had to change, throughout the chain. The approach had to be different. The perspective of the future must be changed. But one by one, we need to see that people in Groningen don't notice that yet. The people with whom I sit at the table are also talking about this: it's all nice and nice that the gas extraction goes down, but we haven't noticed any of that yet. The challenge is to actually make this the year of implementation. I would also like to comment on that. 'Cause that means tempo. As far as I am concerned, a package leaflet fits in with that. I was sitting with someone at the kitchen table. There were also people moved elsewhere from the village. He told me it'd all been a long time. It was in a farm that was rebuilt by the NAM. All that would have taken a very long time. But he also drew attention to the fact that he literally said: I only made it through the fact that, as a higher education student, I spent an incredible amount of time in this. So that means it's still very complex. The complexity that people experience, of course, also has to do with that pace. That has just been discussed a great deal. The Prime Minister has said a few things about this, but questions have also been asked about it. Why is that? What about that balance? The new damage operation and especially the new reinforcement operation are not yet sufficient on steam. Then it is very tempting to refer to the NAM, the region or a nest with bats. There could be all kinds of things. But as I stand here, of course, I can only look at myself, because I have made the decisions on the new reinforcement operation. Same with the damage company and the damage protocol. The region was sitting at the table, everyone was sitting at the table, but there can only be one who finally makes those decisions and that is me. So it suits me to go into that briefly. What we have done is to ensure that the feeling of "never returning to the past" was met. I thought that was perfectly justified and I stood for it. Because that's what people had in that period, in 2018. Families were in legal conflict with a multinational, the damage and the need for reinforcement were not objectively established and over and over again appeared to have turned out to be "something', and more often it appeared that the wallet was leading in the question of whether damage was damage and whether strengthening was. In that conviction, all those involved at the table and I have opted for maximum legal certainty, maximum independence, maximum legal equality and maximum customization. We did that because we felt it was necessary to create a dividing line and move away from the era in which all those Groningen families fought. This is how we have included very difficult appeals procedures. That's what I supported. We've classified the handling of damage into process steps in which a lawyer licks his fingers. Houses in the region are still taken care of, resulting in reports of well over 100 pages about one house, and again for the house next door. In the words of Mrs Agnes Mulder, the child approval had not been approved. This means that there is a tension between all the guarantees and the precision we have tried to bring into them, and between all the independence and all the legal certainty on the one hand and the speed on the other. Not only have I come to the conclusion that we have lost it. After the earthquake, I talked a lot about it: in the region too, the dominant sound that we lost in this was. For those are again my own words justice is not only about the quality of a decision, but also about its timing. If one is and the other isn't, it's not just. We need to find that balance again. There was no such balance in the past, but I think that even when the analysis was that this was in place. With those glasses on, we need to take some measures. Those glasses have also looked at the measures. First of all, I have to deal with the damage. The TCMG, the counter of the claims settlement agency, started more than a year ago from scratch, with new employees, a new location and new offices. The TCMG was immediately saddled with a reservoir of 14,000 old damage reports, because the damage settlement had been stalled. And yes, okay, nice: since a year ago we have increased the processing rate by a factor of ten. But the reservoir isn't gone. The reservoir has roughly the same order size, and is even larger since the earthquake. A few weeks ago, when we had stacked acceleration measures over and over again on acceleration measures but the reservoir did not shrunk, I talked to the TCMG about this. The discussion focused solely on the further increase in speed and removal of the reservoir. Then, at my request, the TCMG made a gear kit. That gear kit's in the pieces now. The quake that came over after that only made it clear again that it was absolutely necessary, because the need to get compensation for damage quickly only increased. I think that this situation with the reservoir, but also with the whole distress in the region, really justifies a once-in-a-lifetime move to get rid of that reservoir. Get rid of it. This will speed up new cases and help the people who have been waiting a long time. Now it's about the date. My point of view personally as a human being, without the entire legal apparatus behind it, was at the beginning of June, because I think that if you work away a reservoir, you should do so as completely as possible, because only then can you guarantee that you can deal with the cases again soon afterwards. You have two birds with one stone: the long guards and also the slightly shorter guards have been helped and the people from now on are quickly helped. Because I may sometimes have a tendency to think out loud or to be open about it, I have also shared this with my partner in the region. I then get it back by mail by returning mail. But how much objection can you make to a measure that you have shown yourself to be in favour of? So I can't really complain about that. In this case only a personal opinion of Eric Wiebes is not sufficient. Because we have a big good. We have a public damage counter. People are satisfied with the handling by that window. That's gonna come in carefully and faster than the incoming damage cases. As a result, the reservoir does not shrink sufficiently, but we keep track of it. The speed an sich, static, would be good. The handling is good. The judgment is good. So I can't destroy that. This means that we need to look for a one-off measure in which we can then go back to the normal careful but easy-to-use fast-paced damage handling practice, without reservoirs. That's what we have to do. That means I have to be very careful when it comes to legal risks. That's two of them. If it is a one-off measure with the aim of removing a reservoir, it is permissible. Once that is no longer proportional, you create precedents, because then it becomes a new practice, which is an inclined plane. That means that we might be able to get backwards into the situation where you have to redo 80,000 damages, which may mean that you have to start doing this one-off action for everyone who's coming now. Again, we have a good compensation window but we just need to get off the reservoir. I'm... Maybe I can finish...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u142	Yes, you can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u143	I am not yet convinced that the legal analysis really says it must be 1 January. I made that clear. I am going to take this very seriously in the very short term, I hope for a week, because I want this measure to be as broad as possible. I want it in such a way that after that we can keep this well-functioning compensation window. We shouldn't destroy it. We shouldn't do anything weird. I am very committed to looking for the space that is available to help as many people as possible and then helping the new people, according to the normal procedure, as soon as possible or preferably immediately. I have a week in mind myself, but I need that time to go all the way down. Again, the TCMG has done a careful study on this. Legally, she surpasses me by a factor of 1,000. Nevertheless, given my role and my ability to act, I think it is necessary to go further and further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u144	I had to hold off on my interruption, so the point is from some time ago. But it's about the reservoir, so that's where we'll find each other. It is very good that a step is now being taken to remove the reservoir. That's clear. But if I add it up, we're gonna take a big step, but I'm not on the 16,000 yet. How does the Minister think we're really gonna get that 16,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u145	Since that is not clear to me, I do not want to accept this solution for the time being. I want us to be able to live up to the fact that people who have now made reports will soon get their turn. I'm looking to get rid of that reservoir. The damage counter can basically handle the pace, it delivers high quality, it is trusted, people are satisfied about it, but that reservoir throws soot in the food. And we need to get rid of that. I am therefore unable to answer Mr Sienot's question. That is precisely why I do not accept this solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u146	Maybe I can try again, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u147	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u148	I'd still like an answer. If I add it up, I will come up with the measures that are now being taken up to some 7,000 reported damages. That's not 16,000. So I'm missing 9,000. Then I wonder: what are we going to do for that? That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u149	Mr Sienot makes the same sum as me. I can only say that his aim is to bring speed and to be able to help people who are but also in the future not covered by this measure quickly, is precisely my objective. And precisely because I cannot yet give the answer satisfactorily, I would like to look at this further. For Mr Sienot's concern is exactly mine. And the sums are the same. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u150	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u151	Finally, on this point. I heard the minister right. Then I hope that one way or another, for example with a letter or something, we will be able to be informed about what the next steps will be. 'Cause we want to go to the 16,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u152	Apart from getting rid of the reservoir, it is wise to increase the regular pace. We are now at about 400 recordings a week and that will eventually be 400 decisions in the week at the end of the chain. But I would point out the legal complexity. Lawyers lick their fingers off, but I still think we've got a pretty heavy device set up here. The TCMG itself might also say that the child approval would not immediately put a stamp on this. So there are an important number of process simplifications. None of that is interesting, it's not sexy either, but it's important. Thirdly, I have spoken several times, actually very often, with the spokesmen who deal with the damages, about the builder's variant. Here too, there was a common ambition to do as much as possible. This is now being scaled up further. We now have about a thousand people who are participating in that builder variant. But there's got to be more of that. The list of contractors should be extended. We are thinking of perhaps ten to fifteen contractors. There's got to be a longer list. That also means that we can work with samples afterwards. It is expected that this can be built up during the summer and that we will be at a higher capacity after the summer. The estimate of the TCMG itself is about 150 cases per week. They'd be on top of 400. This is therefore a significant increase in capacity by this further enhanced builder variant. This, too, is absolutely justified in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u153	As I stand here, I'm getting more and more questions. The Minister therefore undertakes to see whether it can be extended to 1 June within a week. That's one promise. He will also tell us within a week what he will do with the larger, complex damage cases and on which gear the TCMG will deploy. I don't have any clarity about that yet, and I'd like to know. I heard the Minister say in a subtitle that there would be ten to fifteen certified contractors. I hope it's by village or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u154	In my communication with the TCMG, let me make sure that these things are answered. I'm already intervening in his business. We need to make sure that he is also supported by what are the right answers here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u155	Thank you for this commitment. If you live in a village and have a local contractor, I think it's important that you can just turn it on. I would like to see that for both the reinforcement notice and the damages settlement. I hope that's possible, too. Perhaps that is more of a question for the other minister we have in our midst today, but I would like to have that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u156	I'll check with the TCMG for both specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u157	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to return to this in the near future, even within a week. He states that he still has to have it all sorted out legally, focusing on the legal possibilities and inability of the scheme itself. He doesn't want it to be an open-ended arrangement, I'll just say it in my own words. I'd really like to look at the residents through legal glasses. I am not a lawyer, I say that directly, but I find it legally very difficult to explain to the residents that a date has been set, 1 January, and that people can make use of the scheme before 1 January and not after 1 January. You're gonna get legal inequality, aren't you? I'm just saying that with my non-legal sense of farming. I can't explain that to people in Groningen. Will the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u158	Yes. I think that Mrs Dik-Faber and I both have ambitions that differ from 1 January, that is to say. But it is a one-off measure designed to eliminate a reservoir. That is a totally unorthodox measure which in no way meets the standards you set for damages and which does not correspond to the protocol on damages, but which is permitted in particular situations: this situation as far as I am concerned. That means there's got to be a limit somewhere. This is the case with one-off measures. So "general"... Whatever you call it, there's always a date with something. That's unpleasant, but it's necessary, otherwise things will go wrong. There will therefore have to be a date and Mrs Dik-Faber and I have on our wish list that it will not be 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u159	That last one's good to hear. As far as I am concerned, that date will be 1 June, because the people who have suffered damage as a result of the last earthquake at Westerwijtwerd will be able to rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u160	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u161	I really can't explain that people who suffer damage as a result of that earthquake can't rely on that scheme. You get two types of Groningers with two types of damage: one from before January and one from after January. This is a heart cry on my part: make the arrangement available to everyone until 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u162	This is a struggle I am doing partly on behalf of Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u163	We've had a lot of gas debates. I had the feeling for a moment that this debate might be different. It's the first time we've managed to get the Prime Minister to join us. He comes with excuses, which are partly repeated. And then Mr Wiebes starts to look like yet another gas debate. On the first specific point we are talking about, Mr Wiebes says: I cannot say anything about it yet; I have to look at it; just wait and see. I would like to ask, through the President, whether the Minister does not find that painful. Last year I made a complete black book and I repeated the question again. This is exactly the question we have asked a long time ago. Now you say again, "Wait a minute."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u164	I may find that painful, but not because I disagree with Mrs Beckerman, but because I agree with her. I believe that a date should be chosen to include the last cases, which would otherwise be included in the reservoir. But I have to do it so it doesn't get messy. I need to be able to promise things that can. I shouldn't make a mess of it. I shouldn't do it like we're gonna kill that window. I have that responsibility, because I know that in a year's time, and in two years' time too, and in three years' time too, there will have to be an orderly compensation counter, which Groningers are satisfied with and in which they have confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u165	For once, I agree with Mr Wiebes. He shouldn't make a mess of it. But the problem is, it's a huge mess now. We have already warned of this at the start and in all the major debates afterwards. I ask again: why do the words 'I'm going to look at it' come again, when the same request was made earlier by the same minister in the trash can, which has made it such a mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u166	I had a conversation with the TCMG myself about this measure. There is a measure that I think is particularly good in nature. This is exactly what we need. I'm still not at peace with the date, the limit of the settlement. Many here say the same thing. I still have to go after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u167	The Minister still has to go after that. Then I'm really wondering, who's in charge here? Who's actually going on this file? It's exactly as Mrs Beckerman says. We have yet another debate here, and in the end the conclusion is probably again: what is actually going to change? The Minister can actually do a lot. He can certainly decide on a general's pardon. He may indeed decide that we are now going to pay out or strengthen all damages. He can, but he just doesn't want to, Mr. Chairman. Let's mark that for a second. It's just unwillingness. But I'm going to come back to that scheme of reservoir Groningen. The Minister himself is not entirely satisfied with it either. Well, then I actually have two suggestions. Shouldn't we delete the date of 1 January 2019 and shouldn't we also delete the maximum amount to be paid out of €10,000? The regulation as proposed now covers some 7 000 to 8,000 dossiers. That is far from enough. So how does the Minister feel about that? We delete that date and we delete the maximum amount of €10,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u168	It's very tempting to do it exactly as you'd like to do it yourself right now. That's how I started and that's how I hope to end. But we can't pretend that this is a country where case law doesn't count, where there are no laws and where you can just make an unheard of mess out of it. I can't, and I'm afraid I have that responsibility. If I were on that couch, I'd hammer on that June 1st. But I'm doing the same thing right now in this place. But I'm gonna have to make sure it goes well. So far, I've been getting advice on that from people who can really know and who say it's risky. I don't want to accept that right now. I'm gonna keep looking, and I have reason to keep looking. Maybe I get zero on the reeks, but that's not my bet. I think there's more to it. I'd like to find out. So far, this has not produced any results, but I am not prepared to accept them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u169	I do wonder in good conscience what we're doing here. The Prime Minister apologizes for the legal approach in the past and says that we should now become more human. I have never heard the words legally and impossible in a debate as often as the Minister's last ten minutes. The letter's ink isn't dry yet. We received the proposal from this Minister last night, with that date. The room doesn't accept it. Now the Minister himself says: I do not really want it myself. That's incredible, isn't it? He knows what the region wants. He knows what the Chamber wants. He comes up with a proposal last night, and I assume it is well thought out, and I've actually suggested something that I don't want as a human being, but as a politician, I do, and I have something legal to do. I don't follow, Mr. Chairman. What is the Minister's proposal now? Is the regime now being widely opened up and is the legal inequality, which CDA and ChristenUnion rightly point out, going off the table or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u170	The arrangement will now be as it is and I still have a week to see if I can expand it. That's exactly what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u171	Then Groningers still don't know what they're up to. They get the message this morning: we all get €5,000 or €11,000 if we take care of the construction ourselves for that and that date. One day later, the Minister said: "I do not really know what is going on; in fact, I do not agree with my own proposal. It's got to be different." How do you rebuild Groninger's trust if you haven't thought through your own proposals legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u172	These are proposals from the TCMG. She's given it a legal thought. It stands for this and he thinks this is the right arrangement. I have the opportunity to intervene, but I have to have good reasons for doing so, and I have to think about that. The legal opinions have so far been adopted, but I do not accept them, and that is why it is up to me to see if we can take this further. That's what I do. Just because I finally have the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u173	But that's not what was sent to the Chamber yesterday, is it? At that time, the Minister said: this arrangement will come; this is what I decided. I am in favour of you broadening a little, but let the Minister say: it is being extended. Surely it is very strange that the Minister should make such a proposal, a general, what was it? A general please, please. You can hardly make it up. So please, a general, and the next day it turns out that it's completely at risk, maybe it can't, maybe it's being extended, maybe it's not being extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u174	There is no question that the omen as it is now would not be possible. No way. This is the minimum that comes. That's from the independent position of the TCMG. The letters are there. That is legally justified, and I am saying here that I have another opportunity to broaden it myself and to find out if it will cause this provision any problems. I'd rather have examined that five weeks ago. Well, the investigations have been there and so far they have not worked out what I want, and I simply do not accept them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u175	I would have liked that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u176	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u177	I think everyone, then we knew clearly what we were up to. Now that it is not, I would like to make one more request. Because I'm also legally a layman, but if you call something a reservoir control, you'll have that arrangement as long as there's a reservoir.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u178	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u179	No matter what date. That is a different approach than whether it is 1 January or 1 June. The point is that the reservoir disappears. I also receive messages from people who are in the reservoir of formerly the Centre for Safe Living. They then filed new damages when the TCMG started. And now, after the recent severe quake, they've had to make another damage report. Where are they? Whether or not in the reservoir? Those questions also need to be resolved, and I think it would be better to say: this arrangement takes until the reservoir is resolved, and then you can proceed to a normal matter of handling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u180	Yeah, that's why I keep pulling this. I can't shoot a hole in this. Solving a reservoir is, as far as I'm concerned, solving a reservoir. Mr. Chairman. The buy-back scheme should be continued. I don't think if there's a proper buy-back scheme, you don't need a guarantee scheme. The continuation of this buy-back scheme is regulated until 2024. There are additional resources in that and it should be possible to just help everyone. Once there is a proper buy-back scheme, there should no longer be a need for a guarantee scheme, because in the end the people who need it can change their lives. The new building scheme. No, they didn't ask any questions about that. The fall in value. No, there's no question about that either. I wrote it down here, but... Mr. Chairman. I wanted to go to the gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u181	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u182	I wanted to go to gas extraction and Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u183	That buy-back scheme, that is another theoretical reasoning of the Minister, which is theoretically correct. If you have a buy-back scheme and your house can always be bought up, you don't need a guarantee scheme. That's what he just said. Groningers and the region have been asking for a long time: give me a guarantee. If I buy a house, I know I'll have a backup if it goes wrong. Then there is much more certainty, also much more certain feeling in people when they live in a house in Groningen. Such a buy-back scheme can change every year, now too. Now it's being temporarily extended. There are very heavy criteria, not at all so advantageous. The numbers are limited. With such a guarantee, everyone knows what they're up to. It's also very easy to implement. And if the minister's right, it's not gonna cost anything either, because we already have that buy-back scheme. Why aren't you prepared to choose such a practical solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u184	I have discussed this intensively, including with the region. You actually need a guarantee scheme if you don't always get to the buy-back scheme. It is important that the buy-back scheme provides sufficient security. That means the horizon is sufficiently long. There must be no waiting list. It means people can just go there. That is what we are trying to do here: a buy-back scheme that those people who need can simply use. That then gives the certainty you are asking for, of course in combination with a value reduction scheme. You're buying something, but you've also compensated for the fall in value. That gives perspective to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u185	What gives perspective is not that people sell their homes out of necessity and let them buy it up, but that people who buy a house have the guarantee that they can stay there with pleasure and that they have certainty that it holds its value in the area. That is why I find a guarantee scheme much, much, much more attractive than a buy-back scheme that leaves empty areas in villages. That scheme is necessary for emergencies, but not to give perspective in the area. The Minister still does not seem to understand that difference, although there is a great need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u186	But we have... We have now been able to come up with a value reduction scheme. It's got to start. In conjunction with a buy-back scheme, so were my talks with the region...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't see the gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u187	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u188	The gap is that the buy-back scheme applies to when you're somewhere and you can't leave. The house is bought up, an empty place in the village, it is demolished or not, everyone worries. Whether you buy a house and the price you pay for that house, you'll get back in the next ten, fifteen years, of course corrected for the house price development. That's more attractive. When you buy something in Groningen, you just know for sure: it keeps its value, it doesn't get any less worth because of those earthquakes. With a buy-back scheme you can get empty spaces in the village, and farms and image-defining buildings that are bought up. I see that Minister Ollongren, who also deals with Living, understands my reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u189	Hmm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u190	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u191	I think I should have another talk with Mr Nijboer about this. A large buy-back scheme has now been chosen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u192	But, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u193	Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u194	Sorry, Chairman. I might have gone a little for my turn. Surely I understand that the buying-in scheme will be adequately budgeted in the coming years, so that it, together with the depreciation scheme, should provide guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u195	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u196	So that commitment is there. Then Mr Nijboer's point remains whether the Minister, if he does not want to come back to it this evening, wants to explore tomorrow with the region how to tackle the aspect of the Moerdijksregulation. You are sure that you can always sell your house well again. Whether that is through a guarantee scheme or otherwise, it is a question of resolving it. Will the minister do that reconnaissance with the region tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u197	Let me take Mrs Mulder's hand-pick. The starting point must be certainty and not a certain regime or whatever. We need to check with each other whether there is sufficient certainty for those people who want to settle in the area or who are already located in the area. I would also like to discuss this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because this is about an area, Living, which she has much more expertise about than I do. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u198	Thank you for this commitment. Thank you for working that out with the region tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u199	Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction. Last year, we outlined a basic path to zero. At that time, I made a commitment that I would continue to look for ways to bring down the extraction of gas. We have succeeded, because next year we can gain 1.5 billion cubic metres less gas compared to that basic path. Those measures have therefore indeed been found. In the gas year from 2020, that would even mean you're at 12 billion cubs. I think Mr Sienot mentioned that. After March 2022 there is hardly anything left of a very substantial gas extraction in Groningen. In March 2022 the nitrogen factory will take over. Then we probably won't need any more gas in a warm year. But SodM puts an important shovel on top of that: 12 billion cube next year, instead of the year after. It's quite an ambition to put that away for one year. I am simply not prepared, unlike many of you, to assume a priori that this would not be possible. It's, I think, extremely complicated. I'm sure there'll be some devilish dilemmas coming along, but let's look at them first and then judge them, not the other way around. What are we doing? I was already working on additional measures to get even further to zero or zero from 2022. That's what I shared with the Chamber. Then there are measures in the picture to reach below 15.9 billion next year, again below the basic path that was already underneath. On top of that, however, and that is actually Mrs Mulder's request, I am going to map out what a world of 12 billion cubic metres looks like. What does that mean? What do you have to sacrifice for that? How could that be? Can we do that at that time? That will be quite complex dilemmas, but I am in favour of first identifying what it means and then talking about dilemmas, and not abandoning them in advance. I hereby make a commitment to Mrs Mulder that both of us will be able to look at what it takes to get to 12 kuub and what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u200	Thank you. When can we talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u201	I think we might be able to talk about important measures as early as June, but in abstracto. At the end of July we have further worked that out, but on October 1st we really need to know, because on October 1st the gas year begins. That does not mean that we have so far discussed this matter between the cabinet and the chamber. Because there is a mining decision, a procedure. Oh, boy, there it is again. We must go through this extraction decision, because if it does not, we must stop winning gas at all. We'll be at zero from October 1st. So that mining decision has to go through. Now I see no other possibility but to leave that 15.9 in there for a while and to look in parallel for ways of getting that number down. The target is 12. That's how I want to do it. That means that at those times in June and July, and finally before 1 October, we need to know what this means for the next gas year, what dilemmas there are, what buttons need to be cut and how we can achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u202	This certainly seems to me to be a passable road, because we really have to go to the 12 billion cube, for the safety of our Groningen. Can the Minister indicate in the coming days how this process will be worked out exactly? 'Cause it's kind of a big deal right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u203	I'll let you know more precisely how that goes. Of course, we had a procedure. It was all worn out. It is now necessary to re-examine at what point we can inform the Chamber about this and how we can then discuss it. I'll just find out what the best time is. Is that June or July somehow? But then we also have to consider the recess. I'm gonna go jigsaw on it, because it's important that we talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u204	My group had asked for the measures to be mapped out. It's a good thing the Minister picks this up. I think that's what others asked for. My question to the Minister is whether there are obstacles, for example in terms of contracts with Shell and Exxon, which makes it more difficult to gain less gas next year than we have planned. Think of contracts on phasing-out paths, where Shell and Exxon take into account, for example, those 15.9 billion. Or can the Minister decide freely? I'd like to know the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u205	No, there's no obstruction on the side of... There may be some sort of financial arrangements on the table if you go under a path you've agreed to. But again, they're not obstructive. It is only about the physical possibilities of obtaining and using less low-caloric gas. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u206	This raises the question of what these financial arrangements might be. Anyway, for me, for the people in Groningen, I think it's more important that we actually go down with that gas extraction as far as possible. At the moment, nitrogen is already being added. Last year more than in the years before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u207	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u208	That is a good development. But in the Gasunie tables, I see less nitrogen being added when the gas price is high. So financial calculations, the value of the gas price, affect to what extent nitrogen is added to foreign gas. The Minister is very surprised. I'll start my sentence again. When the gas price is high, there is less nitrogen, because then you can sell the Groningen gas well. When the gas price is lower, more nitrogen is collected to deliver the quality of the Groningen gas. I find that very worrying, because this would mean that in Shell and Exxon financial arguments do indeed play a role when it comes to the extraction of gas in Groningen and that there is indeed scope for further reduction of gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u209	Because of the wider possibilities for nitrogen procurement, we now seem to be able to use more nitrogen. For this reason alone, the level of 15.9 can probably be reduced. My commitment is precisely to use all the nitrogen we can get to get the gas extraction level in Groningen as low as possible. Let me take a look at the statistics mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber. But the solution is that the possibilities for nitrogen procurement are even greater than it initially seemed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u210	Rounding up. It's nice that there's more nitrogen available than we thought, but that has to be used to the maximum. The price of the Groningen gas should not affect that. I would very much like the Minister to use his influence, make arrangements about it, so that this is not going to happen either. We need to get as far down as possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u211	We need to get as far down as possible as soon as possible. Here's the deal. But I'm going to look into that specifically. That is my promise. But we're all in agreement. This is the target.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u212	I do not need to repeat the debate on mining legislation. We have discussed in detail the safety of the Groningen people, compared to security of supply. I was in a different place. Anyway, that law applies. On that basis, we have an existing procedure. The Minister emphasized that. He is now committed to making every effort to reach 12 billion cubs next year. Now I would like to remind him of an earlier, other issue which I have often raised and on which I have also been given commitments. The issue is that the Netherlands does not even know a gas switch-off plan if the need is to be met. It has been promised more often that there will be a switch-off plan, but I still haven't received it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u213	Yes, there will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u214	Yeah, that's right, but I've been hearing that for a whole year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u215	I'm just taking a serious look in the official direction. I can let you know when that's gonna happen, because it's gonna happen. This is about something else, but the question has already been asked twice by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u216	It is not entirely about something else in my opinion, because if you have to switch off because the need comes from the man and because you put the safety of Groninger first, then there must be a possibility for that too. It doesn't exist yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u217	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u218	So in that sense, there's a relationship. I'd really like to see the date now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u219	Yeah, I'm gonna make sure there's a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u220	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u221	Then we need to strengthen. For over a year I have been doing this together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because it is ultimately about money flows to municipalities, building, living, area development. It will respond to and respond to the questions of reinforcement from this growing involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u222	I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many points have already been dealt with. Indeed, the reason I am here is that I would like to make my contribution to the reinforcement. But since it is also the first time I have spoken to the Chamber on this important subject, I should like to say very briefly in all modesty that I am also very touched by what I have seen and heard in Groningen. I was with colleague Wiebes after the last earthquake in Westerwijtwerd. I spoke there scared people, angry people, worried people, people who were literally shaking out of their bed that morning. I spoke to an alderman who can't actually go down the street without being very intrusive and who sometimes doesn't know what to say. The flags were half-sticked. I can feel that. That hurts. Then you realize it has to be different. A great deal has just been said about this. Of course, I fully agree with that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the strengthening approach and the way in which we want to try to do it differently and better now. There are a few things that are at the heart of this strengthening approach. It is about more direction for residents and for administrators, local administrators, the people in the region, on the ground who know what is needed. It is a question of setting up a single, effective implementation organisation with real impact, with implementing power. It is about simplification and, with it, an acceleration of the process. This approach can only work if we work together, if this is an approach for municipalities, residents, housing corporations, health care institutions and schools, if we do so together and get on board together. Then we can take those steps and then we can also develop that approach. We're gonna do some really different things. That's been said before. We will, of course, continue to discuss this with the region tomorrow, because that is also the way to do so. We want to use standard measures, typologies of houses instead of every house for themselves. That's gonna matter a lot. Then we can really speed up. We do indeed want contractors in this process of strengthening to be able to get to work and do so at once. The same applies to the local contractors, I say to Mrs Mulder. All it takes is for the contractor to have the right expertise. Then that contractor can get to work. We are also going to have the existing reinforcement advice of the houses with a slightly increased risk profile, the so-called batch 1581.I am now a bit in the jargon, but I'm sure everyone here knows exactly what I'm talking about............................................................................................................................................................................. That is also one of the opinions of the SodM. That's what we're gonna do. There's gonna be one implementation organization. So the Safe Living Center is taking a break. The local plans of the municipalities are led. We will, of course, also have to increase the capacity in implementation. We want to ensure greater transparency in progress. We will ensure a multi-annual planning. We will make sure that this progress is made clear in a so-called dashboard. We need to maximize the building capacity. For this we work together with important, relevant parties on a Groningen construction agreement. That is what we are going to shape. That's what the letter says. I would also like to analyse in that consultation with the region in the near future whether there are any legal obstacles to the rapid implementation of this strengthening approach. I am thinking here of the fact that Mr Van der Lee referred to the way in which certain accelerations in procedures have been achieved through the Crisis and Recovery Act. A little by analogy with that approach, I would therefore like to see whether we can still take steps in the sphere of removing such legal obstacles. I agree entirely with what Mrs Dik-Faber said: it is now the task to stand alongside the people in Groningen. There's no point in standing in the way of government. I also know that trust in the government is not good, that people feel unsafe and unheard. I fully agree with what the Prime Minister said: all we can do at that point is not to work on trust in ourselves, but to work on trust in the approach. Mr. Chairman. There are a few specific questions that are still on my way. Firstly, Mr Van der Lee asked about the obligation to produce results. I think the answer to that, which the Prime Minister was already hinting at, is: of course we want to, and when we talk to the region tomorrow, we must also talk about it. Then we must work with the region to see what is possible. I am also very pleased that Mr Van der Lee said in his interruption that he is giving the cabinet time to do so. We need that time to determine precisely with the region, because no one will benefit if we now promise something that we cannot deliver. So I would like to discuss with the region how we can define these objectives, what they are, and how we can say together: we can achieve this result with this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u224	Thank you for the clarification on this point. Can I add another question? I have also pointed out in an earlier interruptive debate that municipalities tell me that by issuing an environmental permit which includes an NPR test, they can ensure that a reinforced house, or a new house to be built if a demolition had to take place, is sufficiently safe. Can I assume that you take that option very seriously in that conversation with the region and see it as part of an attempt to achieve an obligation to achieve the goals of the reinforcement operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u225	I had heard this comment from Mr Van der Lee and also noted it as a question for myself, to find out. As far as I am concerned, we can put everything on the table; that is how we are now working with the region. I heard this suggestion and I say to Mr Van der Lee that I am going to look into it and, as far as I am concerned, we are looking for an approach that works. So I don't know if this could be part of that, but I'm sure I'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u226	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u227	Mr Van der Lee also asked about the mandate of the NCG or, in fact, the way to the implementation organisation. I've already said something about it. In my opinion, his question focused on whether the NCG has sufficient mandate, can act independently and not always have to ask for permission. Yes, of course, that is precisely the intention: a competent implementation organisation that has sufficient mandate and can really shape the acceleration in consultation with the client, in consultation with the municipality and in consultation with the people who know exactly what is needed very close and very locally. To Mrs Mulder, who also asked a question about this, I say: of course, the NCG and later the implementation organisation can scale up if necessary; this will only work if the lines are short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u228	I have just heard the Minister of the Interior say that she thinks it is a very big problem and that she felt it in Groningen. So it's a great responsibility that rests with her now. We need to get this backup operation going. She's also seen that it's tough. My question is: what is going to happen now, so that the Groningers will find out that it will be better? What exactly is going to change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u229	There are some changes to it. The big change is that there will be not all kinds of different organisations, but one. But I think the most important thing is to put the region and the local administrators in position and that they actually decide what needs to be done. If we then, as it is called in the jargon, use that typology approach to standardize more and also achieve a lot of time savings at the front and if we also allow tailor-made work that is called "the builder's variant," then we also realize more pace in the reinforcement operation "the builder's variant'. These are a number of aspects of the changes in this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u230	Thank you for the answers. I have a follow-up question. I hear things are different because there's a typographical approach. I hear things are different because local government gets more control. I would like to go one step further. Shouldn't we just give the homeowners as much as possible in our own hands, for example with a building depot? How does the Minister see that? And does she also intend to give people more the opportunity to work with reinforcements yourself along that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u231	I had heard that question from Mr Sienot before. In the execution of the so-called batch 1588 experience is now gained with exactly that point, with such a building depot. I think it's relevant to learn from that. We want to learn from previous experiences, of course, but if we also go to that builder variant in the reinforcement, this particular point can get a place in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u232	When is this approach really going to run? With that 1588 the minister is now active. As far as she is concerned, 1581 will start immediately. If people already have reinforcements, they can just loosen up. I really understand that from this minister, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u233	Yeah, according to the advice of the SodM on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u234	Yes, very good. And can people select their own contractor for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u235	It's about a number of houses that are in that batch 1581 that we know should just happen there quickly. In some cases, of which Mr Van der Lee has also mentioned examples, the municipality has said: we are going to do these houses. This happened in Ten Boer, for example, but I know that this also happened in the city of Groningen. I would like to move towards an approach in which property owners also have the option of doing it themselves. I am afraid to say now whether this is also possible for these houses, for this part, which is also included in the SodM recommendation. If that's possible, we should. The most important thing is that for that category of houses that reinforcement is set in motion very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u236	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u237	When does the Minister intend to clarify this? Because I know people who already have advice and who have been wanting to get away for a long time. On the one hand, they have damage, and on the other hand, their house may have to go against the plain. So we are also doing some crazy things with each other: giving money for damage and then the house might go against the plains. So I would like to have a little more direction on this for the people themselves, because what good is it for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u238	I think that Mrs Mulder and I are in complete agreement on that point. We'll talk to the region again tomorrow. Of course, we are also going to work out exactly how this is going to happen for these homes. The municipality concerned will also play an important role in this. I would be happy to admit to the Chamber, as far as possible after tomorrow, after our consultation, and otherwise soon after, how we deal with these houses on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u239	On this point, I would also like to give something to the Minister, because we are talking about this for the first time. I have already expressed my concern about the implementation organisation that is to be built. This has to do with the fact that a large part of the staff of the Safe Living Centre, which was based on a very different approach, is now going to play a major role for a different purpose, unfortunately. To be honest, I have more confidence in the interplay between people who take matters into their own hands with the municipality than in a central implementation apparatus. I also have some concerns about these typologies. 2,500 typologies have been distinguished. We're talking about a reinforcement operation currently in the order of over 3,000 houses. Then what good are typologies? If you have to knock it down again in a few, will you really get on with that? So please take a good look at that. Make sure that the municipalities can work together with the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u240	The latter was taken from my heart. On the first two points, we do not want to be dependent on the CVW anymore. We are going to organise this very differently, with one implementation organisation. As for the typologies: if you have too many, then you have no typology approach and then you have no standardisation. So of course we have to go to a limited number of clusters of building types, for which you can apply a standard set of measures. That also has my full attention. Mr President, a number of very specific questions have been asked. Mrs Mulder asked whether it is now completely clear how EZK and BZK have agreed to deal with the reinforcements. The Chamber was informed of this by letter a few weeks ago. Eventually, we are working towards a law for strengthening and towards an execution organisation, in which the ownership of BZK will lie. But much more important is that the commissioning authority should be with the municipalities, so that we can do the execution together with the municipalities. In our view, that is clearly organised. Mr Van der Lee asked whether there would be a penalty clause when strengthening. That is indeed part of the package of measures. We want to work in that whole new process with fatal deadlines. In the event of non-compliance, residents must be compensated by a compensation scheme. It should be operational by next year. Mr Kops of the PVV asked if this is a crisis approach aimed at coulance. Yeah, actually, we're dealing with this right now in line with how you work in a crisis structure. We will talk to the region again tomorrow about the integrated package of measures. In the execution we go all the way to the local drivers. I have just said a lot about simplifying and accelerating the process. I have appointed the direction for residents myself, as have the measures in the implementation capacity, the role for the construction companies and the removal of any obstacles in legislation and regulations à la Crisis and Recovery Act. In other words, we are certainly doing so as Mr Kops just suggested. The SGP referred to European procurement rules, some of which you may indeed wish to derogate from. If there is an urgent situation that requires swift action, then it should be possible. There is a possibility in procurement law to derogate from the standard time limits for contracting or from the obligation to public contracting in special and urgent situations. That is not necessarily a departure from European rules, but a possibility that is part of those rules. The same applies to contracting a contractor without having to respect all kinds of time limits, so we are going to use that. Mr Sienot of D66 referred to seven bottlenecks that the region had already submitted to the SodM in a letter at the beginning of May. Of course, these are all subject of conversation. We've actually already addressed all the points in our preparations. You will also find them in part in the letter. We will discuss them all tomorrow, or some of them, for example how we deal with the implementation organisation and with the budget. I have already said something about this, so I can answer that question: yes, those seven points are known and we are going to work on all seven points. Mr. Sienot also asked if we see opportunities to use students in Architecture in the great task that is there. All the help, all the ideas and all the creativity to achieve that acceleration are of course welcome. I was just referring to the construction agreement we're going to work on. I can imagine that we are also considering the construction agreement to include this suggestion. Mr President, I believe that I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u241	Good. A question from Mr Nijboer? Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u242	I don't know if the Minister is also talking about the new construction scheme, but I think so. It's coming to an end. The Minister considers it very important that enough houses are built in Groningen as well. There's a housing shortage there, too. The question is whether it is being extended and whether it is being properly arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u243	I believe that this is part of the responsibility of my colleague Wiebes. I thought he said something about it just now, but I might be wrong about that. I can also say to Mr Nijboer that I naturally share his analysis of the housing shortage in Groningen, in particular the city of Groningen. That's why I made a living deal with the city of Groningen to address that point. I have also often spoken in the region about the bottlenecks in the city on the one hand and the shrinkage in certain parts of Groningen on the other hand and how we can somehow bring that together to improve that, so I certainly see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u244	Yes, but the answer to the question of whether it will be extended. The cabinet speaks with one mouth...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u245	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u246	... and Mr Wiebes has the answers there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u247	If it is all right with you, Mr Wiebes will answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u248	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u249	Mr. Chairman. There is no doubt that residents are entitled to a continued new building scheme. That's not without a problem. Because we agreed that this would be an audience. That appears to be a state aid problem, so I have a lot of trouble with it, but that should not be an obstacle to a new building scheme, because it should be there. This could mean that it will be carried out by someone else for some time to come, or by the NAM. That does not lead to applause everywhere, but the provision should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u250	Now there are two MPs. I think they wanted to ask questions to the Home Secretary. Mr Stoffer, or was it Mrs Dik-Faber? Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u251	Mr. Chairman. In my view, two questions have not been answered, but important questions for my group. I have noted that this is a national disaster. Those are very big words, I realize. There is also a need for a crisis approach. I read in the letter that the Minister is also coming up with a crisis approach, but it was a very short sentence in that long letter. I'm just really curious how we're gonna fix this. When will people in Groningen notice the difference? What exactly is the Minister going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u252	In reply to Mr Kops' question, I briefly outlined how this approach is much more in line with how you actually deal with crises. I think the most important element, if there's a crisis, is that you try to address it as locally as possible. We have said that there is a crisis here in slow motion and you cannot address it if you allow a lot of different agencies, with all kinds of different responsibilities, to solve it. These are short lines, responsibility of the Empire in cooperation with the region and local administrators in position, combined with much shorter procedures and with space for residents to act according to their own understanding and wishes. That is the approach we advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u253	I thank the Minister for the explanation. At the same time, I think this is very important. The crisis approach as we know it in the Netherlands is always about a disaster that takes place from one moment to the next. For example, a flood disaster, a dike that breaks through. The security regions also train for that kind of disaster. Those are disasters from one moment to the next. But we don't have that here in Groningen. This is a slow-motion crisis. I hear the Minister wants to shorten the procedures. Yeah, I agree with her. However, I do feel that a much more drastic approach is really needed, because so many procedures are too slow. Maybe we'll only achieve the result we're aiming for with an emergency law for Groningen, a Groningen law, I don't know if you should call it that because the existing crisis legislation is not actually applicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u254	I have been careful in my words, because I want to keep a watchful eye that I say, promise or promise that it will not be possible to do so later. However, I did say that I do want to check, in consultation with the region, whether legislation and regulations are hindering the acceleration of the approach. Because in the end, it is indeed about a reinforcement operation. That reinforcement operation is needed because of the safety of the people's homes in the earthquake area. Then, in response to Mrs Dik-Faber, let me say that I am not ruling out a crisis law, a Groningen law, at all costs, if it proves to be helpful in this approach. In fact, I'm very willing to do it. But I want to be sure that will help, because we have to make legislation for that with each other. Then, of course, I'll get back to you very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u255	I would like to endorse Mrs Dik-Faber's last appeal. I can imagine, for example, that we think through the Nature Protection Act: the bats go for the people again. So I'd like to join in on that. My question is actually a very different one, but it fits into this context. I specifically mentioned something about the agricultural sector. We are talking in particular about housing, but the agricultural sector is very complex and may deserve its own place in the crisis approach. Is that really gonna get picked up? Or is that still out of the picture? 'Cause then we're gonna have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u256	He's definitely not out of the picture. I believe the Prime Minister also said it: there are three of us here now, but we often talk about it. Several colleagues in the cabinet have taken or are going to take important steps in parts. Of course, the Minister of LNV will do her thing just for the agricultural sector, just like the colleagues of VWS, SZW and OCW have done a number of things. For example, the monuments were specifically asked for earlier. So it's definitely in the picture. As a cabinet, we are sure that the agricultural sector in Groningen is also facing specific problems. Moreover, EZK's colleague has been aware of this for some time now. It has also been the subject of discussion with the region for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u257	Mrs Agnes Mulder, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u258	I also endorse the comments made by Mr Stoffer. I'm also going to table a motion on it in the second term. The Minister talked about a certain expertise that contractors should have in order to get started with the reinforcement notice, or with the damage. Could she work that out a little further? 'Cause I'm a little confused from whole new, long protocols that don't let it go again. So that's my concern. Maybe the Minister can take that care away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u259	Yeah, I think I can take it away. In practice, the expertise needed to strengthen is already certified. Contractors who can do this are generally already certified. They are therefore by definition suitable for carrying out such tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u260	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u261	And those contractors will be able to report to the NCG tomorrow to see if they are eligible to work with the 1581-batch residents who want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u262	We can do that anyway. By the way, contractors themselves know best about what expertise and what certificates they should have. But of course they can also report to the NCG.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u263	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand that there is a need for a short suspension in a number of groups. Then I suggest we suspend until 10:30. Then I'll suspend until 10:30, so for about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u264	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u265	Mr. Chairman. Another gas debate. A lot of Groningers have little faith that it will ever be okay. In this gas debate we saw for the first time, the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, who has been asked for a long time to apologize. I believe that as a Chamber, heard by the cabinet, we should show that we reject what has happened in the past. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that supervisor SodM concludes that in Groningen there is long-term social disruption and that the primary necessities of life safety and security are not met;]] [[approves the policy pursued by Minister Wiebes with regard to the strengthening of buildings and the settlement of damages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Geleijne and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-616]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u266	I think it's important that we show that we disapprove of what happened. I hope we can move on. My colleagues will put forward further proposals for this. I think this is a sad end, but I think this should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u267	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u268	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the region made a number of clear proposals, namely:]] [[property owners should be able to rely on a buy-back or guarantee scheme;]] [[delete the deadline of 1 January and apply the TCMG offer to all persons who have reported damage;]] [[extend the new building regime;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt and implement these proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Geleijne, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Kops, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-617]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u269	I would like to say a few words about the motion of censure which has just been tabled on the policy of strengthening and repairing damage. The group of the PvdA found the prime minister's equestrian excuses in contrast to the excuses and answers of Minister Wiebes. After all, he indicated that we all did not do well with the reinforcement and that it was stuck in legal procedures, while it was a conscious choice of the minister, despite the great resistance of the region, to stop the reinforcement operation. It was the Minister's conscious choice not to listen to the arguments of the broad opposition at the time. As a result, the security of the Groningen people is currently less secure than would otherwise have been secured. For this reason, the PvdA Group has condemned the policy pursued over the last year and a half with regard to strengthening and dealing with damage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u270	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u271	Mr. Chairman. The apologies are too late, far too late, because for years now it has been known how extensive and hopeless the situation in Groningen is for many people. Let's not forget that in 2013, just after the quake at Huizinge, the gas crane was even opened further. Then the SodM already advised: boys, do not; reduce that gas extraction to the safe level of 12 billion cubic metres. And then the Minister says very nicely: we still have to find out if that is possible, if all this is possible. That's really incomprehensible. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to remove the maximum amount of €10,000 from the Groningen reservoir scheme, as proposed by the TCMG, and to introduce the scheme directly and apply it to all those affected, including those claiming after 1 January 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop waiting for the injured parties who have filed a claim for damages and to proceed immediately with payment or reinforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops, Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Geleijne. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-618]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-619]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u273	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of EZK has indicated that he has a great interest in bringing gas extraction back quickly, next gas year, to the safe level of 12 billion cubic metres. So does the Party for Animals. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that supervisor SodM advises to win less than the 15.9 billion Nm proposed by GTS;]] [[calls on the government to follow the SodM advice from a security point of view and not to gain more than 12 billion Nm from the Groningen field in an average winter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kops and Mr Geleijne.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-620]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u275	The Minister wants gas extraction to move quickly to zero. According to the Minister, we are ahead of schedule and are therefore going to make it before 2030. We often see that we do not achieve goals; then objectives are often moved further away in the future. Now the opposite is the case: we are going to make it. Then it is a good signal to strengthen that ambition and to reach the target date. To that end, I shall submit my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SodM recommends from the point of view of safety that no more than 12 billion Nm be extracted from the Groningen gas field next gas year;]] [[Whereas the extraction of gas from the Groningen field should be reduced to zero as soon as possible in the context of the security of the Groningen area;]] [[noting that the government intends to reduce gas extraction to zero by 2030, but indicates that it is already ahead of schedule;]] [[Whereas it allows for the objective to be strengthened;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a roadmap to reduce gas extraction from the Groningen field to 0 Nm by 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-621]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u277	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the equestrian apology in a trifle. Thank you for the commitments. I will be very vigilant in following that up. I think it is now up to the cabinet to make it truly true that it is generous and results-oriented to work with damage, strengthen and reverse gas extraction. I have three motions. I'm gonna read to you real quick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government includes a number of proposals from the region in the reinforcement approach and the settlement of claims;]] [[Whereas not all proposals are included;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[enable property owners to rely on a buy-back scheme;]] [[the possibility of exploring an advance on a definitive depreciation scheme;]] [[extend the new building regime;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Sienot, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-622]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u279	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that State surveillance of the Mines (SodM) requires additional resources to carry out its extensive tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the SodM has sufficient budget to carry out all its advisory and control tasks, in particular those in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-623]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u280	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the State Monitoring of Mines (SodM) calls for a crisis approach in Groningen;]] [[Considering that civil society organisations such as the Groninger Gasberaad and the Groninger Soil Movement have many ideas about a crisis approach with a faster outlook for results, in which residents are also at the centre;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with these civil society organisations on the implementation of the crisis approach in Groningen, to carefully consider their ideas on this issue and to inform the Court of Justice about it in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Sienot, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Geleijne, Mr Stoffer and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-624]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u282	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Geleijne on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for all the answers and in particular for all the equestrian excuses. Thank you for that. But to speak to Mrs Beckerman, it is now time for action. The measures announced should simply become visible quickly in all those neighbourhoods, villages and streets where necessary. There must be short-term results that we can also appeal to you as a cabinet. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government announced acceleration measures in and for Groningen;]] [[noting that measures have already been announced, with the result not visible in the districts, villages and streets of Groningen;]] [[Whereas the government's apologies must be accompanied by measures to be visible within a few months;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the announced acceleration measures with the desired result, including, where possible, the date on which it is to be achieved, and to inform the Court thereof before 1 July 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geleijne, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Nijboer, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Kops and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-625]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u284	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u285	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u286	Mr. Chairman. As I said in my contribution, Groninger needs and is actually entitled to respect and recognition. Tonight, I heard the Prime Minister apologize. Tonight, I have heard the directors respond extensively to how speed, transparency, direction for the people in Groningen is going to be worked on. I would like to thank them for that. In fact, I would just like to read out the motion I have before me. You have heard, Mr President, that I am under a number of other motions. They are all focused on speed, transparency and direction for Groningers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SodM has recently recommended that no more than 12 billion m of gas be extracted from the Groningengas field in the gas year 2019/2020, based on an average temperature trend;]] [[Whereas the safety of Groningers and security of supply are important interests;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to reduce the demand for Groningengas as soon as possible in view of the dilemmas of security of supply to below 12 bcm in the shortest possible time and to inform the Court provisionally and before 1 October,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-626]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u287	Thank you. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister, who apologized on behalf of the entire cabinet. I think that's good and in place. I have heard that a number of questions have been referred to for further information. I'll get back to you on that. I assume that the Chamber will be informed of this in writing and that we will receive a letter on the various parts. I have two motions that I'm about to read. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State surveillance of the Mines advises to merge the damages handling and reinforcement, and to provide this organisation with a broad mandate and own budget;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that people should be able to access a single point of contact, that damage and recovery should be fully picked up and that procedures and deadlines should be made clear to residents so that people can regain control over their homes and their lives;]] [[calls on the Government to create a one-stop shop and a single implementation organisation with budget and mandate for damages handling and reinforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-627]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u288	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the TCMG proposes to provide people who have reported damage before 1 January 2019 with an offer of €5,000 for compensation for damage recovery;]] [[Whereas it is a one-off scheme with a logical end date;]] [[Whereas almost 3,000 reports of damage were made after the Westerwijt earthquake;]] [[Whereas it is important that the TCMG now handle as many damage as possible in order to spend more time on more complex damage and new claims;]] [[Notes that the proposed scheme should apply to damage reported before 1 June 2019;]] [[Calls on the Government to seek legal advice so that the new scheme can be seen over the period of claims notifications until 1 June 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Stoffer, Mr Nijboer, Mr Geleijne, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-628]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u289	Mr President, thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the SodM recommends further reduction of extraction, acceleration of reinforcement and a joint crisis approach to damage handling and reinforcement;]] [[calls on the government to follow SodM's advice and to inform the Chamber about the progress of each section of the opinion for the forthcoming consultation on Groningen and then on a quarterly basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Sienot, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kops, Mr Beckerman and Mr Geleijne.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-629]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u290	I have a question about that. One of the elements of the SodM recommendation is: back to 12 billion cubic metres. I have explicitly tabled a separate motion on this. Does this mean that Mrs Mulder and the CDA are going to support this motion as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u291	I'm gonna take a look at that. We have specifically tabled a motion with the coalition on the further reduction of gas extraction. I'll take it with the answers later and, of course, link it back to you personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u292	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u293	I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the problems of farmers are specific and complex and, as the agricultural table recommends, therefore requires a one-stop-shop approach involving specific agricultural expertise;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the agricultural table and the agro-team of experts are given an advisory role also in the handling of individual complex cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u294	I want to thank the Cabinet for tonight's answers. I hope that today is a real step in the change of the whole process, because we are all quite tired of it. I hope that further steps will be taken tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u295	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u296	Thank you, Madam President. In my first term, I made it clear that we want to stop the millimeter and make meters. We have heard what is necessary. I hope that we will see real action now and that we will not have to have another conversation like this again in three months' time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a shortage of capacity of inspectors for the inspection programme;]] [[noting that there is a shortage of capacity for contractors to repair the damage;]] [[Whereas in the region of Groningen and in other cities, students are trained as architects;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore the possible deployment of engineering students to accelerate damage and reinforcement by, for example, having samples carried out on buildings after damage repair and/or reinforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before Christmas Streces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-631]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u297	I'm just gonna put the accelerator on. That is an unfortunate statement, by the way, in this context. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State surveillance of the Mines has found that the renewed reinforcement approach of the Empire has been delayed again for months;]] [[Whereas, in response to this, the General Government of the Region sent a letter on 10 May 2019 containing seven bottlenecks and solutions;]] [[Whereas the province and municipalities have sent a distress call to the entire House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power to implement the seven solutions mentioned together with the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the successful approach "lifts in its own hand" has been suspended;]] [[Whereas the motion adopted by Mr Van der Lee and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and ……]] [[calls on the Government to provide space for its own direction to the private building owner and to examine its contribution to setting up a building depot for each house with a reinforcement notice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-632]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-633]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u298	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u299	Mr. Chairman. At the very beginning of this reign I once said that solving the Groningen problem is my top priority, and it is still so. My mission has been to lay the foundations for a safe Groningen for a year and a half, and we have devoted a lot of policy discussions here in this Chamber and with the region. But I think everyone can see that the Groninger himself does not notice very much. That's a fact. This year, I have no choice but to say that it will be the year of implementation. In that context, the excuses of the mp were expressly also on my behalf. I wanted to mark two points in relation to things that are still there. Mr Van der Lee still owes me an answer on the exit plan. That's done. This is now consulted with interested parties and immediately after the summer the exit plan is offered to the Lower House. There is also a comment by Mr Nijboer which I have to respond to, also because it is so explicitly included in the Acts. I agree with Mr Nijboer that we need to speed up. I agree with his remark that not every home in Groningen is safe yet. I also agree with him that the new reinforcement operation, in line with the Mining Council's recommendation, is still very difficult to get on with. But there is one point that we have talked about before and which I must contradict, because it is so hard in the Acts and because it is so official here. He knows what I'm going to say: no, the operation has never been stopped; the facts contradict that too. For the rest, I agree with everything he feels that safety is still inadequate, that the operation is not yet in progress and that the Groningers are not yet aware of it, but on this one point I must be strict with him. Mr. Chairman. The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u300	That was entrapment. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u301	Whatever word you choose, after Minister Wiebes' important gas decision to reduce gas extraction to zero at the time, you stopped the reinforcement operation as it was going on and opted for a different method. Or "silenced" or "differently filled out," whatever you call it, but that's what happened. The region was angry about that at the time. They were supposed to be clear before 1 July, and that clarity is still not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u302	The figures say something different, but I have said what I wanted to say and I am very much in line with what Mr Nijboer says about it. But this point had to be made. I'm on my way to the motions now. The motion-Nijboer c.s. in piece No. 617 wants to remove the TCMG's offer and deadline completely for all people. That means blowing up the window, because it is no longer a one-off measure. I must advise against this motion for the preservation of the TCMG, and that also applies to the motions on items Nos. 618 and 619. The Wassenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 620 calls on the government to follow the SodM advice from the point of view of security and to win no more than 12 billion cubs. Look, it says here in very absolute terms. I fully share that aim, but in this absoluteness I cannot guarantee that we will achieve this. So I would like to suggest to the proposers that they hold that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u303	There's always time to hold on. But it says here "in an average winter." It doesn't say "a severe winter," it says "an average winter." Maybe that'll give us some room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u304	As you know, I have no control over the temperature and nature of winter. No, that doesn't change anything. We're talking average winter. That's how we calculate it, too, but I really need to see how far we get. I'm full for the 12, but I can't serve sureties here yet. So the suggestion is to hold that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u305	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u306	Otherwise, I'll have to dissuade it, but not because I don't share the intention. The motion in part No. 621 is about a roadmap to reduce to zero by 2025. This autumn I come up with a phasing-out plan for the period after 2022. That's after we got the nitrogen plant ready. Then it should go to zero, as soon as possible. I'd bet on that year being at least made. But I would also like to suggest that we keep it so that we can assess it when the phasing-out plan is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u307	With that promise, I can hold the motion for a moment. I'd like to have a word with the co-sponsors of the other motion if we hold it. But the motion in part No. 621 I'll hold on to this for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u308	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (33529, No. 621) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u309	Clear, thank you. The motion in part No. 622 I give judgment Room. The motion in part No. 623 too. The motion in part No. 624 too. The motion in part No. 625 also judgment room. The motion in part No. 626. Thank you for the nuanced wording. Also judgment room. The motion in part No. 627 I'll leave judgment room as well. The motion in part No. 628. I say passionately, yes. Judgment Room. At the motion in part No. 629 on the follow-up to the SodM advice I may need to do a package leaflet. There are two types of advice: on strengthening and on gas extraction. If I may read the motion in such a way that we are carrying out the recommendations on strengthening where that actually leads to acceleration of the approach to the most risky houses. With regard to gas extraction I would suggest reading the motion in such a way that the nuance contained in the motion in part No. 626 is in here, too. If that can also be read here, I would give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u310	Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u311	But I'm gonna take a look at the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u312	Yes, that's Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u313	Yes, where we get additional information from the Minister about that whole process. The minister says, "I'm gonna start on that over 15. But there are dilemmas that are being presented to us here, because otherwise we will not be able to carry out that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u314	We're going to talk about this. I make it clear what a world with 12 billion cube a year looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u315	Okay, and then we can check together to see if we can make it and thus give follow-up to the SodM recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u316	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u317	I think SodM has also approved plans from the municipalities. That's what they're doing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u318	It has given provisional approval for each of those municipal plans. An integral plan is yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u319	It seems to me, with that thought behind it, that SodM's advice could be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u320	But do I understand from that from Mrs Mulder that I can read the motion like this? Then I'll give that judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u321	Yeah, I guess SodM's gonna handle it that way, too, so we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u322	The motion in part No. 630.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u323	The motion in part No. 630 is about an advisory role in individual complex cases. I find that complicated, because that means justice with the stakeholders at the table. The way in which this agri-business is to work is now being worked out. I'd like to involve it in that. Here too, I would like to suggest to Mrs Mulder that we hold the motion so that we can talk about it at a time when it is clear what this agro-stop shop will look like. I do not have a deadline for that, but it is being worked on at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u324	I'm not gonna hold on to that right now. We are going to take a look at it ourselves with the Minister of LNV, because I cannot imagine that this would not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u325	Good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u326	That would be unfortunate, because then I would have to discourage the motion. I really think it should be considered in the framework of the window.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u327	The motion in part No. 631.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u328	The motion in part No. 631 I give judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 632. If I may read it in such a way that it is not necessarily literal, but that all the bottlenecks are addressed and resolved, although perhaps not exactly the same solution is found everywhere, I leave it to the Chamber to judge. The same applies to the motion in part No. 633.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u329	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-21.u330	There's one motion we're going to vote on tonight. That's Mrs. Beckerman's motion. We will vote on the other motions next Tuesday. I think we should suspend for a short time and let the vote ring go. Then we can vote right away.
