ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the debate on the climate agreement. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and give Mr Jetten the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. 30 years ago, Queen Beatrix said: "Our world suffers from deforestation, desertification, extinction of animal and plant species, rising temperature with threatening consequences, such as the rise in sea level. Warnings have been enough." Those words of Queen Beatrix are still painfully topical. In the meantime, Frits Bolkestein is arguing for a break in climate policy. But I would say that the climate has had a long pause in Cabinets. We are the last political generation to be able to fight climate change. The design climate agreement is a good start: more than 600 agreements with fellow governments, companies and NGOs, which put the Netherlands in the green. I quote our Prime Minister at CNN: "There is absolutely no alternative. There is a great urgency. We have to deliver." I have rarely heard clearer words from the Prime Minister. And with that attitude, we can turn the tide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Jetten, a calculation has been made by people who believe that we have that effect on the climate by CO. If all countries, including the United States, were to abide by everything they promised in the Paris Agreement, do you know how much less global warming in 2100, so in a century? How much less if you believe in all those models you believe in, indeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u4	I don't know what all that stuff is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u5	0.17 ̊C. Not anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u6	Wait a minute, Mr. Baudet, we're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u7	Mr Baudet asked me how much it would be if you put all the current plans together. What I know is that nearly 195 countries have signed the Paris Climate Agreement and that all these countries have committed themselves to limiting global warming to 2 ̊C and preferably only 1.5 ̊C. With the draft climate agreement, the Netherlands is now one of the first countries to actually translate these ambitions into solutions that help our households and businesses to actually achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u8	Mr. Jetten lives in a dream world where things are the case because you hope they are. But you have to look at reality. 0.17 C is the reduced warming over a century if all countries adhere to what they have committed themselves to in that agreement. And you want to spend 1,000 billion, in the Netherlands alone, in order to achieve those mad goals, while China is not participating, India is not participating, Russia is not participating and the United States is no longer participating. It's really insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u9	If Mr Baudet says that we are still doing too little to prevent global warming, I fully agree with him. I am very curious to see what constructive proposals Forum for Democracy is going to make in this debate later in order, as the Netherlands, to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u10	I heard Mr Jetten say that the climate agreement that is now under way is a good step. But since that agreement has been presented, I am really wondering one thing. There is one very important thing that is not included: a tax on CO. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u11	(NL) Mr President, that is actually very much addressed in my text. If it's all right with you, I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u12	Shall we do that, Mrs. Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u13	Before I get to that point, I think it would be a good idea to emphasise how we, like D66, are going to assess these transfers from the planning agencies. We are paying close attention to three criteria. Are we achieving the climate targets? Is it affordable for households and small entrepreneurs? Do large polluters also bear the greatest burden? The climate agreement offers many opportunities, for a warm house with an affordable energy bill, for sustainable innovation, for clean air in our inner cities and for green jobs in our ports. There are opportunities not only for the climate, but also for tackling the division. Because if we start with our neighborhood approach in neighborhoods with a lot of rentals, we can make sure that people with a small wallet get a warmer and more comfortable home, but also a lower energy bill. Private homeowners don't have to do it alone. There will be a heat fund that will advance investments for insulation. I ask the cabinet what the state of this heat fund is and when homeowners are expected to be able to make use of it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the CO levy, which Mrs Marijnissen asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u14	Is this still about the previous point? Okay. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u15	Before we move on to a new point, I have a question. Mr Jetten just said that D66 is going to assess the plans on the basis of three points. One point was the affordability of households. How does D66 see the ratio between the cost of the climate agreement by households and by companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u16	That is also one of the assessments we have to make after the credit transfers. Specifically for households, I think the following is important. We want to get rid of the Groningen gas. We do that for the safety of the Groningen. And we also want to make the built environment more sustainable. This means less drafty homes, better insulation and a lower energy bill. A lot of people can't afford that on their own. They cannot advance those investments in their homes, while they ultimately earn them back with lower energy costs. Then I say to the cabinet: make sure you help the households who cannot make the investments themselves. For people in a rental house, this means that we give housing corporations the space to invest in those homes. For private homeowners, this is sometimes a cheap loan and sometimes a little subsidy to support that investment. In this way, the cabinet can ensure that households can also come along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u17	Mr Jetten also knows that the big bite is in the 'table industry', as it is called in jargon. We see that figures show that large companies account for most of the CO emissions, 80%. Would Mr Jetten therefore be prepared to have 80% of the costs of the climate agreement paid by large companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u18	I think there are two challenges when it comes to large companies. Firstly, that is the contribution they make to the amount of CO they need to reduce. The electricity sector, industry and agriculture are the largest emitters. You have to make sure they take their role in terms of CO. That is what the electricity sector and industry are doing. In addition, the question is whether costs are fairly divided between companies and households. Then it is not just about the investments we have to make, but also about the energy tax we all pay. I fully agree with Mr Kuzu that the energy tax is currently about fifty-fifty divided between households and businesses. That's really untenable. You have to go to a situation where business is coughing up a larger proportion of that energy tax and households can pay less for it. I am very pleased that the cabinet is investigating this and that we will be getting proposals for it later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u19	I just want to know this in a very concrete way. Whatever D66 says is fair, I don't have to think it's fair. The DENK Group doesn't have to think that's fair. Is D66 therefore in favour of 80% of the bill being placed on companies and 20% on households? It's actually very simple: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u20	I just can't answer that right now. Part of this must also be demonstrated by the passing on of this climate agreement. I think it is important that it is affordable for households and small entrepreneurs. That's what I just said. If the measures prove to be too expensive and households are unable to compete, then we need to come up with additional solutions. Businesses also need to play their part, and they need to get back on their feet in terms of CO emissions. We want to do that without driving the business out of this country. Because I very much believe that the climate agreement can also help to create a clean economy in the Netherlands with companies that create new green jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u21	Mr Jetten just dropped the word "fair." The PVV doesn't need these weird air-conditioning systems. But I've learned one thing, and that's that if you ask someone else, you have to do it yourself. You have to set an example. If you ask other people for anything, it's fair that you do it yourself. Now I've seen a list about air travel, Madam President. You know that all this is very bad for the climate and the environment. Mr Jetten has flown over recent years to Macedonia, Kosovo, Sri Lanka, Scotland, Oman, Iran, Ukraine, Sicily and Ethiopia. This is all information derived from his Instagram account. Maybe you can still catch the train to Scotland, but in all those other countries you don't even get by train. So, Mr. Jetten, you've made 10 or 20 flight trips all the way to the other side of the world. What do you think of that? You have a very big mouth here, like: none of this is allowed, we have to be careful with the environment, climate and CO. And you yourself are a great consumer when it comes to air travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u22	First of all, I am very pleased that Mr Wilders also occasionally looks at my Instagram. Unfortunately, I still don't get a lot of likes in the pictures. But now a serious answer to his question: yes, I sometimes fly and that is very bad for the environment. That is why I am very much in favour of a flight tax. When people like me occasionally choose to catch the plane, we also have to pay a fair price for the pollution. I try as often as possible to take an alternative, the train preferably within Europe, but I must honestly admit that I am not sacred either. Yeah, I've been on the plane for the past ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u23	Madam Chairman, have you ever heard of him? Ever, did I hear that right or was there a fly in my ear? Have you ever been on a plane? You flew to Ethiopia, to Ukraine, to Iran, to Oman, to Sri Lanka, to Kosovo. You flew halfway around the world. The Prime Minister hasn't traveled around the world that much in recent years. That's not "once," that's all the time. If your reasoning now is "maybe, if I pay for it," then you're the biggest hypocrite of all. Because not everyone, that ordinary man and woman, can afford all that. They are already happy if they can pay for a holiday to Portugal once a year. They can't say like you say: well, you know what, I'm just paying something extra, a flight tax, and then I'm just gonna do it. How can you ask other people to pay them to get rid of the gas, to get rid of the gas, to buy an expensive electric car, not to fly, at least to pay a lot of money for it, when you are just not paying for everything? You're the biggest hypocrite around when you do that, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u24	Again, I'm not a saint. I try to do my part, for example by making my own home more sustainable. I am not denying that I have flown over the last few years, but I believe that this example shows that Mr Wilders refers to me personally, precisely because we need to ensure that we shape the climate agreement in a fair way, that the strongest shoulders and those who pollute the most are also going to pay the most for climate policy. In this respect, Mr Wilders thinks that I am entirely on his side to ensure that the strongest shoulders also bear the heaviest burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u25	Mr. Chairman. Finally, because we are only allowed two or three times per interruption. You have already lost all your credibility at the beginning of the debate. What you are saying is that all other people with not as big a wallet as the MP Mr Jetten must do everything and if they cannot do so, they must pay or stay at home. Someone with a lot of money, the elite liberal of D66 Jetten, he'll do it all. You've lost all credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u26	Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. Then I come to the answer to Mrs Marijnissen. Industry, too, must, of course, be involved in the climate agreement. Businesses should be responsible for 14.3 megatons of CO reduction. After the energy table, that's the biggest task there is. The cabinet has now opted for a so-called bonus-malus scheme. That sounds very complicated, but it's actually not. Businesses simply have to work on a climate mission and continue to pollute or lag behind the goals of their own plans, then a fine follows, a fine that comes in addition to a European CO levy that we collect from companies through the ETS system. But fair is fair, the price for that ETS system is still far too low. The price of pollution is too low. That is why D66 has also advocated a minimum CO price, preferably in a European context. For the electricity sector, we are now going to introduce it. There will be a national tax in accordance with the coalition agreement. But I also understand that the parties say: why such a minimum CO2 price for the electricity sector and why not for the industry; why only a fine for the industry? But I am, frankly, open to good ideas. I am pleased that the cabinet is mapping out the different effects of CO2 fines or CO2 taxes. I find it interesting that the Labour Party should also have its CO2 tax passed on. I'll make an open assessment when it comes back from the planning agencies. But I don't want one thing, and that's that we only introduce a minimum carbon price to raise money. This should actually lead to a reduction in emissions. So, please, this spring, let us choose the system with the greatest climate impact, without driving jobs and businesses out of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u27	Good thing Mr Jetten says he's open to good ideas. Well, there are, of course, enough of those at this point. And they are not as complicated as the example in the climate agreement that Mr Jetten is describing. They are much simpler: you place the bill where it belongs, with the big polluters, with the big emitters, who are responsible for 80% of the pollution. What this cabinet, the self-appointed 'greenest cabinet ever', is doing is exactly the opposite, namely to keep multinationals out of control, see the climate agreement, and to allow ordinary people to pay the bill. For this, see the Consumers' Association, which says that next year the energy bill will increase by €290. Now to my question to Mr Jetten. I cannot turn on the TV, or I see Mr Jetten arguing in favour of climate change measures, but I see Mr Jetten arguing in favour of social measures. Mr. Jetten, what's social about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u28	Two points on this. Mrs Marijnissen was right to point out the rising energy bill. Everyone's gonna notice this month's energy bill. In fact, this is largely due to existing policies: increases in energy taxes, increases in electricity prices. It is precisely this climate agreement that should aim to bring the household energy bill down again. That's the first thing we have to do. Then business. Business is just getting a tough climate job. In the past, with earlier energy agreements, they have not always delivered. I am therefore also critical and sceptical about this. That's why we need that system of fines in the first place. And as far as I'm concerned, this fine is so high, that companies will really think three times: am I going to invest in my own factory or am I just going to let it go? No, that choice must be very clear: as a company you will invest, otherwise you will pay heavily. And if that penalty system doesn't really work at the planning agencies' billing, then of course we're going to look together to see if such a minimum CO price is a better alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u29	It is, of course, worthless that we are talking about this now, while the system still needs to be put in place. Yeah, "if it doesn't work out, if it turns out to be too complicated." Well, it's not gonna work, because it's gonna turn out to be too complicated. And there is a much simpler alternative, namely the CO levy. I think that this is also important for the support that you are always advocating. What we see is that it's happening exactly the wrong way. For example, Mr Wilders referred to your flight behaviour. I think I heard you in Buitenhof talking about a loan you made for your home to make it sustainable. Well, those are all beautiful things for people who can afford it. But there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who would like to pass on a clean earth to their children, but who cannot afford it. My question to you, Mr. Jetten, is what do you say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u30	That's actually exactly the point I made at first. I believe that the climate agreement can go hand in hand with a cleaner world, but can also tackle a division in our society. By ensuring that the subsidies that we release for climate policy do not end up with households that can pay for that investment themselves, but, for example, end up with housing corporations or private homeowners with smaller wallets. That we are no longer giving huge subsidies to electric leasing cars for people with a fat job, but that we are encouraging the second-hand electric car market so that people with a small wallet can also pay a clean car with lower monthly charges. That is how we can deal with the division of society, together with the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u31	Yes, but very specific. What the cabinet is doing now is exactly the opposite, namely increasing the energy bill. We will gladly propose to reduce it again. I would ask Mr Jetten to support that. I heard Mr Jetten say that the distribution of half a half, 50-50, between households and businesses is actually no longer feasible. As SP, we have often proposed to do this differently, to place the bill where it belongs: with the big polluters, with the companies. We will make that proposal again. I ask Mr Jetten: will he support that? I wonder whether after today he is willing to support such things, or whether they are just fine words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u32	We're gonna get over this. What is it? For more than a month and a half all transfers of the planning agencies. Then we also know exactly how this cost balance is divided between companies and households, where we need to correct it and where we need to improve it for households. The cabinet has already said that it should also take up the gauntlet to make proposals to spread these burdens fairly across households and businesses. If these cabinet proposals are insufficient, I would like to work with Mrs Marijnissen to present better plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u33	As far as the Labour Party is concerned, climate policy must be fair and realistic. That is what Mr Jetten is saying here. But what have people seen so far? That the train tickets became more expensive because of higher VAT. That the energy bill was raised by a tax measure of this cabinet. When you talk about support, you're already behind. Mr Jetten said in an interview in Trouw in December: it is inevitable that there will be a national CO levy. Then a climate agreement is made, it is sent and we see that it is not in it. We both know a fine plan isn't gonna work. We know that the Planning Office for the Environment has said that the government is lagging behind in information. It'll be bureaucracy. They're gonna be lawsuits. The proposals of the SP and GroenLinks are passed on. Those of the Labour Party are coming, too. Can we agree here that if one of these proposals works out better for the citizens' wallet and is more realistic and honest, then we will introduce that proposal? 'Cause you promised me that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u34	I would like to congratulate Mr Asscher on the constructive work of the Labour Party in drawing up a proposal and having it passed on to the Planning Bureau. I will take this as seriously as the passing on of all the proposals that have come from the climate tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u35	I have no doubt that Mr Jetten will take a serious look at the proposals. But my question was another one. The support for climate policy is affected by the measures taken by this cabinet and by the statements made by your coalition partners. They call you a drammer. Now we can do something about it, namely agree that we are going to work on the CO-tax proposals of the Labour Party or others, if it turns out that they are better than the bureaucratic "la-la-la-land" story of this cabinet. As a political leader, you can now choose to do so. You actually promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u36	Again, I will assess the climate agreement along the following lines. Are we achieving the objectives of halving CO emissions? Are the costs fairly distributed? Can households and small entrepreneurs come with us? Will large polluters also pay a fair price? If the Labour Party's proposal contributes to this, more than the climate table proposals, we are absolutely going to look at it. But I can't say yes or no for sure right now. Unfortunately, that's a bit of the stage we're in. Hundreds of organisations have made over 600 proposals. I also think it is right for those tables to wait and see how they are passed on before we make a final judgment on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u37	There's been negotiations in the cockpit. The cockpit was a kind of meeting room in which all the coalition group leaders and ministers sat to discuss the plan. That has led to alternatives, to questions from your coalition to pass on. That wasn't included in the CO levy. One week before that, you called that CO levy inescapable. When you talk about fair policy, I wonder what happened in that cockpit. Then what did you get from the CDA and the VVD? All this was allowed, except to have the bill paid by the biggest polluter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u38	Today we have received a letter from the cabinet explaining to the cabinet that independent research is now being carried out, a comparison between the CO fine systems and other ways, including a CO2 tax. So we do get a good comparison from the cabinet between different ways of pricing industry. I also say to Mr Asscher that we have had a climate freeze in this country for years, with cabinets that did nothing about it. Now there is a government agreement and a draft climate agreement that includes a legal ban on coal, in which we are going to spend a lot more money on renewable energy production and in which we are going to help households to make their homes more sustainable and to make an electric car affordable. Who would have thought that with the composition of this Chamber and this coalition, we could make such green plans together? If it is too little, I say again to Mr Asscher, we are going to take more action. Finally, I have a few questions for the cabinet. There's also an Urgendavonnis. I wonder how the Cabinet will use this Urgendavonnis as an accelerator for the climate agreement. Is the cabinet also prepared to take a number of measures in the short term? I also ask the Prime Minister about the implementation of the Buma/Pechtold motion (35000, No. 15), which calls for a 55% lead group in Europe. Can we also see with this leading group whether a common minimum CO price is possible in a European context? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Beatrix ended her Christmas speech about 30 years ago with the following words: "We shouldn't talk to each other about fear. We humans are not created for passive acceptance of our destiny." That is why I say: it is time for the green stand; the end of the climate break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u39	This debate is partly about the statements of the leader of the VVD, who was actually playing a clever game. I don't think D66 fights back smart enough. If you pretend that this climate agreement is a tragedy because it contains very sharp climate measures and thereby puts D66 in a position as if they were some kind of climate heroes, then when this agreement is finally implemented, we must all clap in our hands. While the deal is bad. The environmental organizations have run away. Why does D66 not say: with the agreement we do not achieve the goals, there are far too many taboos in it; it is also not fair, because the large consumers are excluded, the households have to pay, the shrinkage of the livestock is not in it and the aviation is not in it? Why doesn't D66 say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u40	We have made a clear agreement in the coalition agreement: we are going to implement Paris as the Netherlands and we are going to make a climate agreement with which we will cut emissions in the country by 2030. If the package now before us proves insufficient in terms of climate targets or if it leads to too high costs and burdens, we will simply come up with additional measures to do so. So I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand when she says that this climate agreement is not at all so disastrous. It puts the Netherlands in the green position, it is affordable and it is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u41	I can imagine such an answer from a coalition interest, but if you really look at the interests of the citizens of the Netherlands and, above all, of taxpayers, then I think you should fight harder back. If it is not enough, we are going to take additional measures, but what is the cost involved? We already have the opinion of the Council on the environment, which says about agriculture, for example, that a shrinkage of livestock is inevitable. That advice's been there for over a year. The longer you wait, the harder it becomes; the harder it is for farmers, the more expensive it is for taxpayers. That's the reality, isn't it? What is the cost of supplementing the measures that we already know are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u42	I really think Mrs Ouwehand should ask this question to someone else, because I fully agree with her: we need to take action now and get the Netherlands into the green. Because the longer we wait, the harder it will be in the coming years to catch up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u43	However, I would expect from a party which, in itself, expresses its desire to move forward, to put that critical question to the cabinet and to fight a little back against Mr Dijkhoff's backwardness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u44	I don't have to fight back for that. I'm keeping my coalition associates to the terms of the coalition agreement. I have also noticed in recent months that we are simply discussing constructively how to achieve climate ambitions. I'm very glad you're willing to fight with me from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u45	Mr Jetten, 60% of the participants and 60% of the pensioners are threatened by large reductions in pensions. You are talking about the affordability of climate proposals for citizens, but how can you defend these climate proposals with this threat for 60% of participants and pensioners? Then how can you get support for that? Last Friday, your Minister of D66 sent a ghost letter to the Chamber, throwing away all the desires of the social partners. He comes up with ten plans and a lot of legislation. The trade unions have called it a "slap in the face" and a "war declaration." So how can you talk to us here about acceptance and affordability for the citizen if 60% is threatened with discounts? The Minister is not prepared to take those discounts off the table. He's using it as leverage to the negotiators. The union movement, all the unions, wrote a very hard letter this morning. They're talking about blackmail. I'm not even talking about other things right now. How do you intend to create that support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u46	In my view, I am not in a pension debate but in a climate debate. I would say that this is an open invitation to everyone to return to the discussion with Minister Koolmees on how to reach a good retirement agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u47	This is, of course, a blabbermouth answer to a well-founded question. The people in the gallery and the people at home know that most of them are going to be cut, because pensions are being reduced for workers and pensioners. We are now talking about the affordability of proposals. We're talking about creating support. Your party, D66, rejected an initiative proposal of 50PLUS three weeks ago in this Chamber. With GroenLinks we come together with a second proposal. So you get a second chance. Are you prepared to ask your Minister to take those discounts off the table? The Prime Minister wanted to take them off the table that night, but he didn't get what he wanted. Those discounts are therefore back on the table and are used as a blackmail agent. Would you answer that question? And don't say we're talking to the minister, but he won't move. You might be able to get it moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u48	Unfortunately, the pension negotiations ended at the end of last year. But I see a minister with an outstretched hand who wants to talk about a better pension package, not only for the current pensioners but also for the youth of the future. And those older people Mr Van Rooijen is talking about are often the grandparents of the children who will be organising perhaps the biggest student demonstration in decades to come. These are young people who, as politicians, are asking us to finally take action on climate change. So if we want to do something for that younger generation, I would also like to say to the 50PLUS Group: help us and think with us to reach a good climate agreement, including for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u49	But don't misunderstand my words. I was talking about 60% of workers and pensioners. Then you shouldn't talk about the elderly. I am also standing up for the 60% of workers who have built up their pensions, whose purchasing power is falling sharply as a result of the threat of reductions. Are you willing to take those discounts off the table? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u50	Those discounts can be cancelled if we come to a better pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u51	But it's not about the pension agreement. It is about climate policy, and I really want us to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u52	Yeah, I think I'll answer neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u53	Yeah, I noticed. Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u54	Yeah, back to the climate agreement. Mr Jetten has just spoken in detail about flying, including in the debate on the interruptions. I have a question about that. Of course, we now have a flight tax in those real measures. But I think Mr Jetten and I agree that the flight tax is not high enough. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that this flight tax should be raised and that it should be real? Or does he say, "Well, the way things are now, is it all okay?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u55	In fact, I would like to see, in a European context, VAT on airline tickets and excise duty on kerosene, because then, at international level, you are just going to tax the entire aviation sector fairly for once. There's more load on a cup of coffee on Schiphol than on a full tank of kerosene from an airplane. Of course, that's just not explainable. I am glad that we are now taking a first step with a flight tax in the Netherlands. We have, of course, talked a long time in the formation about its level. It is an important first step, but I fully agree with Mr Stoffer that it will probably have to go up in the long term in order to really get a fair price for flying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Oh, Mr. Klaver also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u57	I see the Prime Minister is texting with big business right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u58	How do you know that?!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u59	But last week it was about the Urgenda pronunciation, and then he really said "Ruttian" really: "It's our goal to achieve the goal." It's almost a tile wisdom, I'd say. And now I would like to ask Mr Jetten: is getting the Urgenda speech, and that target in 2020, an effort or a result commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u60	Well, the government too has to abide by the judge's rulings. The judge has said very clearly to the government: you will have reduced emissions considerably by 2020. So I call on the Cabinet, and I have done so before: come up with a package of measures as soon as possible to achieve that 9 megaton of CO reduction. But I also hope that the cabinet will talk to the people behind Urgenda, to look at real measures that we can introduce in the next one and a half years and with which we really will bring those emissions down very quickly. There may also be measures that we do not already achieve in 2019 or 2020, but in 2021 or 2022, and that in the long term are a huge accelerator to bring that 2030 target together. I've spoken to people who were involved in that verdict. They are also prepared to reflect with the Cabinet on the smart green measures we need to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u61	We have also made proposals, for example on the closure of additional coal plants, for the next two years. I also hope that Mr Jetten is prepared to look into this. But I see his answer in this way: it is indeed an obligation on this cabinet to produce results. And just saying that it's "the goal to achieve the goals" is like a little too noncommittal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u62	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u63	Mr. Chairman. What's the hardest part of our job, or what do I find the hardest part of being here? Last week it snowed and if there's anything my kids think is fantastic, it's throwing snowballs. But instead of throwing those guys snowballs, I was here in the House of Representatives. I feel guilty, I often feel guilty when I'm back at work, working late one night instead of playing with my kids. But what I imagine is that I can tell them: Daddy did it because he was trying to do something important for your generation. And what's the story that I'm going to have to tell my kids, what's the story that we're going to have to tell our kids if we haven't managed to stop climate change? Then what have we all done here? What is the story to our predecessors, the people who have been here in this Chamber? They have decided to work on the waterworks in much more difficult circumstances, economically than what we are living in here today. After a terrible war, which divided our continent and destroyed our Dutch society, they worked on reconstruction. If we now say that climate change is too big, then we are not worth calling ourselves "politicians."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u64	I will tell Mr Klaver what he has done for his children and for other children here if all this continues, namely the total destruction of the Dutch economy. That is something that should be very hard on his conscience and the Prime Minister's conscience, if there is one. Because this is really priceless policy, 1,000 billion. Your children, Mr. Klaver, will be unable to find a job because all companies have been bullied out of the Netherlands. And the rest of the world is out of it, so even if that hocus pocus about climate influence that you believe in were true, then it's completely pointless to do so because the rest of the world just continues with CO. Tell that to your kids tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u65	Mr. Chairman. It's not true. Everything is being done in the world and I see huge steps being taken. Look, for example, at the United Kingdom, where CO emissions have already been reduced by 43%. That is many times more than what has been achieved here in the Netherlands. I see things happening and we will have to take more steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u66	Mr Klaver calls on all of us to take responsibility for our children and grandchildren, the next generation, and that we all have a responsibility. So not coalition or opposition, but all of us. I share that, I feel that responsibility, too. At the same time, when GroenLinks then announces and submits a law, a CO tax, and says "this law is a condition for further support to the cabinet," isn't that a form of obstruction? "If my law is not passed, I will withdraw any support for the climate agreement, for whatever plan, apparently." How does this broad-based responsibility relate to a next generation, those big words about predecessors, about people coming after us, with something resembling obstruction: if my law is not passed, do I withdraw all support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u67	I didn't say that. That's not in the play either. I didn't say we're withdrawing all support. We are not going to link this CO law to, for example, a pension agreement. It would be rather ridiculous to say that. If we were to come to good retirement plans with each other, why would I put on the table a demand from a completely different file and tie these things up? Not at all. What I did say is that it has to land. These are tax measures, and that is how we will assess the Tax Plan. This has to do with the question of whether or not there is a CO levy. But if you think that we want to tie that up with, for example, the pension file or all kinds of other files that have nothing to do with climate change, no, because that would not be productive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u68	Then we will narrow down what the point is: the introduction of this tax is necessary if the government with GroenLinks is to reach a political agreement on the climate. In other words, if this CO tax is not adopted, we cannot reach an agreement with GroenLinks. That's what it says here. Suppose we make that 49%, say we can form that European leading group, say it's fair, suppose companies make a fair share, but that's just another way, then GroenLinks says: no, that can't be, because I withdraw my support, because my law has not been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u69	No. If we're gonna make it, of course not, why? Look, in the end, it's about achieving the climate goals. But I am convinced, and that is why I am so bold to say so, that without a real CO tax you will not achieve those objectives at all. If that is the case, then I've been wrong, then I'll be the first to admit that jubilantly and then we'll go about it in a different way. But I am convinced that the voluntary nature of the climate agreement, for example the system of fines for business, a bureaucratic and legal monstrosity, is not going to work. That is why we are proposing a CO2 tax. Then we are sure that we are actually going to achieve the objective, because only ambitions are not enough. I want measures that really work. We have no confidence in the malus system, that penalty system, which is now in the climate plans. That is why we say that the CO2 law is an important condition for us to achieve an effective climate policy. Why? It has a huge yield. In the first year, with the plan we have, you can raise 1 billion. With that money, you can initially reduce the burden of citizens on their energy bills. The following year, that amount has already doubled. That money can be returned to the companies where we levy the CO2 tax, to ensure that we invest in their innovation. That is why we want such a CO2 tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u70	Finally. I really think this is the wrong discussion. The discussion is about the means and we must talk about the purpose. That target is 49%. That must be done in a just way. We have to do this in a way that companies make a fair share. A form of CO-taxation is already taking place through the ETS. A system has now been presented with a bonus-malus scheme which could possibly lead to the same objective. The question has also been asked to look at CO pricing. We have the proposal from the PvdA Group. That's all ahead. It's about resources. Those resources are interchangeable. The goal is not sacred yet, because there are other things sacred, but it is crucial. I really think it is wrong for Mr Klaver to say again that his law is a precondition for a climate agreement. Then we won't get there. You can talk about this great responsibility and you can call upon the great predecessors and the children after us, but we are discussing resources. They're interchangeable. Let's find each other on the target and then find out every time what's the best cure. As far as I'm concerned, that's really a search, but it's a search we're doing together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u71	Something sharper. I think it's fine, even very good, to discuss what a CO tax should look like. We have now put it down with rates in it that we think are: this is how it works. I'd love to talk to you about how high the rates should be. I'd love to talk to you about how to get the backlock to citizens and businesses. But why is this medicine so important now? In recent years, we have constantly made agreements with industry, without commitment. Compliance with these agreements has always proved to be a problem. Why am I so critical of this malus system? Because the RVO will have to do it later. It takes a lot of inspectors to do that. It will be a legal task to find out whether or not companies comply with something. Since we introduced the CO tax, we've been bombarded by business because they're dead to death for this measure to come. I made the call. What is the crux after all? "We don't want politics to have a button to turn on. We prefer to keep the direction." That's exactly what I don't want. That's why I want a CO tax. Mr Asscher's plan may be better. It may be that Mr Marijnissen's plan is better. If you come up with a plan for a CO tax, I'd be happy to listen to it. We can talk about that, but there has to be a tax that the government has an influence on, which is beyond me. This is about much more than one means; it is about achieving that objective. We've got to get over the no strings. We can tell the companies that we're going to work with a fine system, but we know from the past that that doesn't work. So in this case, I would like to say that the means of a CO tax is indeed sacred.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u72	I just heard Mr Klaver say something which, in my opinion, reveals his childish view of the economy very well. He said we're going to raise a billion for the first year, that's going to be more, and we're going to give it back to the citizens. Doesn't he think that companies will pass that billion that they want to get away from them into an increase in the price? Doesn't he think that companies that can't afford that will go bankrupt and that people will no longer have a job? I mention Tata Steel, which was still a big piece in the paper today. 30,000 people depend on it for their jobs. They can't pay that or they're going to pass it on to the consumer, making the citizen feel it in his wallet. Where does Mr Klaver think he can wipe up all these billions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u73	First of all, companies are not going to pass on all these things. Some of them are, but they're not going to pass all the money on to consumers. That's not possible; there's a maximum. Companies are also going to innovate, which gives them a competitive advantage and ultimately lowers the price. That's how we collect the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u74	This sentence is totally wrong: "We collect the money because companies are going to innovate." That's not the point. It was about a billion dollars being collected from corporate taxes. Then we can give that money back to the citizen. But if the product becomes more expensive, then the baker will incorporate it into the price of the bread. This applies to all products. That's how companies make money, Mr. Clover, to consumers who buy their stuff. So if you scramble those prices, people have less money to buy stuff. Whether it's left or right, the citizen's gonna pay. And you're really turning the voter in front of the eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u75	For someone who is so against the establishment, I would hope that in this case he would be more on my side. Mr Baudet pretends that all these companies are rather pathetic, as if they were on the begging staff. But these are companies that make billions of profits. Shell, for example, recently announced how much profit it has made: billions. I think it should be at the expense of that. I think we can do that, too. Businesses cannot continue to pass things on to the citizen indefinitely, because it is no longer accepted at some point in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u76	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u77	Exactly! This cannot continue to pass on endlessly to the citizens. And then those companies go bankrupt. All the people who work at these companies will no longer have their jobs. Or those companies move abroad, where they don't do all that crazy climate hocus pocus. What you're proposing sounds like something robin-hooded: we're going to take it away from the companies and we're going to give it back to the citizens. But it doesn't work. It can't be. Stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u78	Shell said that companies are going bankrupt. Shell made a profit of 23 billion last year, I believe. And then they would go bankrupt because of the taxes we want to impose? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u79	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u80	No, no, no, Mr. Baudet. I'm going to see Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u81	It was just getting nice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u82	No. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u83	We shouldn't have that, of course, that it's gonna be fun. Let me say it in advance, because it might be surprising: I'm just going to ask an open question. So there's no blame in it or anything. It doesn't happen that often. I sometimes find myself looking for the catch when someone asks a question. I regret that Mr Klaver says in advance that the plan does not work with the fine system. Companies have to spend their money. Then I think they'd rather spend that on CO reduction than on fines. But you say you don't see anything in that. It may also be that the pass-through will show that the plan is not working. Then we must have another way. I do have a question about the CO levy. We already have a CO levy at European level. Should this be on top of it? Does this levy apply to all sectors? It has now become a sacred means, but do we also somehow take into account those jobs of people, without saying that they will solve them? This is also the underlying idea in climate policy. Mr Klaver rightly says that innovation leads to the same production with less CO. But the companies that do the production in the Netherlands are often already steps forward. The big risk you're running is that the production is moving elsewhere. We can say 'less CO' in our accounts, but the world is getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u84	As far as the plan in the climate agreement on the fine system is concerned, I think we should not only look at the billing, so how much CO we think we can save, but also look at the feasibility: is this really going to work? I would like the cabinet to ask the same question, so that's where I'm going to use this time as well as an execution test by the RVO itself, but also an independent execution test, which is about whether it's going to work. Who is to be subject to this tax? In the end, I think it should apply very widely to sectors. What we are now proposing in our legislative proposal concerns the ETS sectors. This means that the price we are proposing is at the top of the European prize. I believe that, in the end, agriculture and transport should also be included. We have not included electricity now, because a legal minimum price has already been agreed in the agreement. Why now the scope on the ETS companies? Because the measuring system is the best in order. If you want to bring agriculture or transport down, we will not be able to do so in the short term, preferably with the Tax Plan next year. In the end, these sectors will also have to be brought under way, but we need longer time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u85	I agree with what is said about the execution test. It is not just about reducing emissions or the financial consequences; it is also about whether something can happen. Is Mr Klaver seeking a certain amount? Is he saying that with a certain amount of money there is an optimum level of effectiveness, which means that if the price of allowances were to rise, then what is not unthinkable is to put a less big head on it? Is he gonna fly with us? Or should it always be on top and Mr Klaver says: it must always have a higher levy than the rest of the EU? Within these sectors, there is, of course, also the possibility to reduce CO2 by means of innovation or other choices and to pay less than that charge by or that it directly leads to "it cannot be done here" and production with more emissions elsewhere. Is there therefore a possibility for Mr Klaver to make a specific exception for this type of company?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u86	Sure. To start with that last one, absolutely. Now it is agreed in the climate agreement: you make agreements with companies and if they don't make them, they get a fine. We are proposing: no, we are simply imposing a tax on CO emissions and then we are going to look at what kind of customisation is needed and what support they need. That is not included in the legislative proposal, because it only regulates the levy. But whether this is gonna work or not, I'm telling you quite honestly, depends on how you handle the backlock. You can do that very wisely and very unwisely. Companies can also fall down. That's not the point of the plans we have. So yes, this plan is also provided for to give that back in a smart way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u87	It's enlightening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u88	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u89	I still see enthusiasm at Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u90	With Mr. Buma. Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u91	I am still somewhat in doubt about the position of the CO levy. Mr Klaver said on the one hand 'it is not mandatory' and on the other he says 'it is sacred'. Should the CO levy be included in a climate agreement, or can you also agree to a climate agreement that does not contain a national CO levy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u92	Theoretically, yes, if you achieve all the goals. I just don't think you're gonna make it that way, and I don't think you're gonna be able to raise enough money to share the burden fairly. I think it's mostly a theoretical exercise: could you agree if it isn't? Yeah, anything can happen, but that doesn't achieve the goals. That is why we are proposing the CO tax. I have indicated that I would very much like to enter into the discussion on how to shape it exactly. This is the most important aspect of such a tax, as is the case with the climate law. The Labour Party and GroenLinks started doing so. Back then, there were two of us. Now we have seven parties signing this. You have to do something that is widely shared, because then you can record for the longer term how the CO price is going to develop. That's the security you can give companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u93	This is a little too much going around. "Theoretically it doesn't have to" means "practically it has to." There's no such thing. It's either yes or no. I am going to say it precisely, because I very much hope that we can conclude a climate agreement that is widely supported. That means we need to talk to each other. Let me be very clear. I have spoken with Mr Jesse Klaver before; that was about a coalition agreement. If I'm gonna talk again, it's no pre-condition. I am not going to start discussions in which it is said in advance: yes, theoretically perhaps not, but there must be a CO levy. I am willing to do anything, all the conversations and I hope everyone, but in a way that we really want to achieve a goal and that we all talk about the best means. I would like to hear from Mr Klaver, not theoretically, or that there should be a CO levy in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u94	I'm always willing to open up. But the fact remains that you are not going to achieve those goals without such a CO tax. Do I want to talk openly about alternatives? I'd love to. I am also curious about the alternatives of the CDA, but that is the crux. You can criticize GroenLinks' plan on CO taxation as you like and on our bill, but we do have a plan, just like we have a plan to get the Urgenda pronunciation by shutting down four coal power plants in the coming years. You may have any criticism of that, but we have a plan. I haven't seen that from the CDA. I'd like to see your bet, too. This is my commitment to these conversations and, of course, I'm open to alternatives, but what is your commitment, Mr. Buma? What does the CDA want to do to ensure that we reduce CO emissions? To be perfectly honest, I have no idea. In March, the elections will be held. It's also about the relations in the First Chamber. I'd love to know from the CDA how the CDA's gonna do that. How do you get that 49%? How do you ensure that these big companies are actually going to pay? So am I willing to have an open conversation? Always, Mr. Buma. I don't think... My party's only been working on this for 30 years, so I could be wrong. We don't think you're gonna make it without a CO tax. But what is your answer to that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u95	Mr Klaver is a master in avoiding what is at the heart of the question, because the essence of my question is not about elections. When it appeared that the climate transfers were coming earlier, I noticed that you immediately called out: 13 March, 20 March, account at the elections. This isn't about elections. This is precisely about elections, because this is about whether, despite elections, despite campaigning, we are able to do something for the Netherlands wider than the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u96	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u97	And now I'm coming back to you and I'm gonna say again, "You're going around it." Are we going to talk openly, and does that mean that the CO levy is very good at getting rid of it? Then we'll talk. But if you keep saying it here with all you-bakes, when we just have a climate agreement that we're working on, we're already at 90%, I'd say we're not getting there. Then it's very simple. Then I'm not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u98	Let me look at what has been realized in this Chamber, except for all the fine words, when it comes to climate. I think it was the Labour Party and GroenLinks who came up with a climate law. We have entered into talks with all those parties, including the coalition and your colleague sitting next to you. In doing so, we have spoken openly about how to come up with a law that can count on broad support. I think that we have given that outstretched hand and we have succeeded in getting together. My answer remains what it is. Of course I'm willing to have an open conversation. What do you think? But my party's been working on how to achieve climate goals for 30 years. We do not know of an exercise in which it succeeds without a solid CO-tax, not one. All the countries around us that manage to achieve the objectives have in one way or another a CO tax. So yes, this is our bet. Do we want to talk open? Yes. Is it possible that something else might come out to achieve those objectives that we could agree to? Of course it's possible. But the opposite also remains: what does the CDA want? I only hear what you do not want and I only hear what you are worried about, but what do you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u99	This is proof of what I just said, isn't it? It's just a you-bake. And the story of all other countries with their CO targets or their CO taxes is a completely different story. It just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u100	What's wrong with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u101	One is that there is no country and two is that where there is, for example in England, it is only the electricity sector that we are going to do, and not the industry. What makes me worse is what you're doing. I say it again: I just don't like it. Or you really think we should do something about that climate change together, or we'll do it together, or we'll go ahead and do you-bake. What I've been very annoyed about is, for example, your tweet. 'Cause it's tweeting these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u103	After the mathematicians came up with their accounts, from the climate. At least, with their report that it would come before the election. Then you didn't say, "Okay, then there comes together a task to get to work." No. They come up with figures for the elections: "We know if the plans of this cabinet were not the plans of the cabinet, but the plans of the tables are sufficient to meet the climate goals. And where the bill ends up. This gives the electorate clarity about the vote on 20 March!" You know what I'd hope for? That you don't think about March 20th, but that you think about March 21st and what we can do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u104	I'm thinking March 21st and what we can do together. And the bigger GroenLinks is in the Upper Chamber, the more we can do for the climate. That's what's at stake. And what I'm asking you is also a sincere question, but I'll say it again when you stand here is what the CDA wants. Because in the end, you can take the measure of all the plans we propose, of everything, but at least we come up with plans. And if we really want 49% reduction, we shouldn't stick to just having ambitions. Then we must now come up with measures and a CO tax is quite effective. So we know if the plans of this cabinet are sufficient to meet the climate targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u106	Mr. Chairman. The Urgenda pronunciation. Something weird is happening. In 2015, that Urgenda statement was made and in those five or four years after that, nothing actually happened to achieve that goal. Now the final figures of the PBL have come and then the cabinet says: we are incredibly shocked, we are not prepared, it is now too late. Guys, you've had time to do something for years. GroenLinks has proposed to close four out of five coal plants by 2020. I'm asking the Cabinet to take a serious look at that, to take this into account in the plans it has for Urgenda. I also think it is important that the plans it makes for Urgenda are there for the elections on 20 March. Mr. Chairman. What Urgenda shows even more is that non-committality is not enough. I've taken up all the goals we've ever had. The 1989 National Environmental Policy Plan: targets not met. Note Climate change 1991: targets not met. Goals from the Balkenende III coalition agreement: not achieved. The only thing we did achieve in that period was Kyoto from '99. That's the only thing that was binding. Shows you don't get there with no strings attached. That means you're gonna have to lay it down legally. That is why we should not have a non-binding penalty system but a strong CO tax. Because such a malus system has already been changed in the interrupting debates, and it is an official and legal monstrosity, it is difficult to implement and it gives companies the opportunity to flee. They have been able to do so far too often in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u107	Mr Klaver just said something that really triggered me: let's look seriously at closing four coal plants next year. That's, like, one, capital destruction. But, two, my question to him is, where does our energy come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u108	One, it is a great shame that coal power stations have been built up and that the previous cabinets have given the room for that. Two of a few places. One, in the Netherlands, gas plants are currently standing still. They don't turn. You're gonna have to turn it on. You'll have to import part of it from Norway and part of it from Germany. Despite the fact that you are also importing, despite the fact that you have to turn on gas plants, you still have a climate gain of around 12 megatons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u109	We do not agree on this capital destruction. That is one thing, but Mr Klaver actually agrees with me that you should immediately bring dirty energy from abroad to stop our relatively clean coal plants. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u110	It would be crazy if you had to bring a lot of dirty energy to the Netherlands. I was talking about Norway. 98% of what is generated there is sustainable. In Germany, a committee has just made recommendations on coal power stations there, which must also be closed down more quickly. We can see that the Energieswende is going like a mess there. The share of renewable energy is growing much faster than here in the Netherlands. So even if we take it with us that we import, even if we know that there is dirty electricity from Germany in between, climate gains are still positive not only in the Netherlands but also elsewhere. That shows how polluting these coal plants are actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u111	Then I'll go to Mrs. Old Hand, if you don't mind, Mr. Baudet, because you're almost through all your interruptions. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u112	GroenLinks and the Party for Animals often and strongly work together for the climate. Among other things, this was the case with the idea of a climate law. I share Mr Klaver's analysis very much that it is not going to work with just non-committalism. To our great regret, the Climate Act, which was adopted in the Chamber with VVD and CDA on board, has been undermined into a non-binding law. How does Mr Klaver assess the effectiveness of that law in the light of his own analysis just now that we are simply not going to get there without commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u113	It is true: the Party for Animals and GroenLinks often pull together when it comes to climate. But we also had a disagreement with the Climate Act. I think Mrs Ouwehand is referring to the fact that we, as drafters of the Climate Act, have said that the objectives are not intended to be legally enforceable. It cannot be ruled out, moreover, that the judge still gives a ruling on this matter. The power of this law is not in the question of whether a judge can rule on it or not. As you can see, the cabinet does not do much about it. It is in his mind that we have agreed with all those parties a way of working, how we are going to work on these objectives. We write a climate plan every five years. It's discussed every year. In that sense, it becomes part of the whole political process. That is why I am confident that this climate law will make a huge contribution to reducing CO emissions. Let me give you the example of the United Kingdom: 43% reduction. How did that happen? They have introduced a CO tax and a climate law there. I remember the footage after the Brexitpoll. The whole country's in ruins. It was a big mess. The Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Policy, say the Wiebes of the United Kingdom, arrived there to continue the plans you have to make on the basis of that climate law. That's what we've agreed on now. That's the power of the Climate Act. The commitment that the parties have given to this and the many seats of parties who are behind this law and who have said 'this is what we have to do in the years to come' give me confidence that it will succeed in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u114	Proceed, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u115	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying something about the costs of climate change. We must, of course, ensure that these costs are bearable for people in our society. I think the heat fund is an interesting initiative and I look forward very much to its further development and in what way that could help people. What my acute concern now is the increase in the energy bill this year. We have an increase of about 30%. Half of them come from government and taxes. This cabinet has just helped itself this autumn. The energy discount has been reduced. I had a debate with Mr Dijkhoff at the Political Reviews after Princess Day. He said: the energy bill is simply not meant to be income policy and that is why we want that energy bill to go down. We're seeing the effect now. We see that before I believe more than 700,000 households the energy bill is actually getting too high. I hope that the cabinet will finally realise that the energy discount is an important means of ensuring that the energy bill remains affordable for people on low incomes. I therefore ask the Cabinet what measures it intends to take in the Spring paper to ensure that the household bill goes down. This is important for these households. Affordability is at least as important to support climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u116	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u117	Madam President. We do not have a CO problem in the Netherlands, but a VVD problem. That party's lying machine is working overtime again. Earlier, they said they wanted less immigration, but they did sign for Marrakesh. In the coalition agreement it said "no extension of the children's pardon," but that was what happened, we know by now. And now again with climate policy. Mr. Chairman. It was the VVD who proudly signed the government agreement of the cabinet, which Prime Minister Rutte called the greenest cabinet ever. CO reduction, climate policy, it was all there. And then the VVD also signed, defended and voted cheerfully for the Climate Act. Then came the climate agreement, which was historic even by VVD Minister Wiebes! It was mentioned in a letter to the Chamber. The VVD wanted more, more and more climate madness. This climate baby, called the climate agreement, of the greenest cabinet ever conceived by the VVD for the full hundred percent. Then Mr Dijkhoff suddenly said: it is not my agreement. Totally unbelievable. What did he think the voter went crazy? That the voter doesn't realize that it's cheap election talk from a VVD in a panic who, after the elections and after 20 March, just starts to sign again, as the VVD always does, at the cross, so that the citizens can just start to pay again for all these priceless and non-affordable climate measures? 'Cause they're bullshit, Chairman. What kind of country do we live in where eating a meatball every day becomes almost illegal, but growing cannabis is made legal by this cabinet? The chief of the climate agreement, the VVD'er Ed Nijpels, our own Al Gore, who wants to force the common man everywhere, cooks himself on gas, has no heat pump and likes to fly to his friends in New Zealand. Mr President, what a charlatan, what a fraud, what a mob gang that VVD is! And the common man, the common man gets to pay. People are already getting an energy bill that is on average €300 higher than last year. Where politicians and climate gurus think they can save the globe, millions of ordinary Dutch don't even financially save the end of the month. Because instead of the relief promised by Rutte, people are only going to pay more every time. While hundreds, hundreds of billions of euros are at risk of being wasted on this climate madness, pensions are cut, hospitals are closed, rents are increased, health care is increased, and ordinary men and women already pay hundreds of euros more for groceries because of higher VAT. And now: 200 pages of climate agreement with 600 measures to make the Earth warm up the KNMI at 0.00007°C. The most expensive thermometer can't even measure that. It's crazy. If a Nigerian swindler gang had invented this climate agreement, no one would have been surprised. Mr. Chairman. Houses need to become climate neutral, which will cost owners about €45,000 on average. Motorists have to drive electric for them priceless cars. In order to achieve the Urgenda goals it is even thought of, as we read in the newspaper, to lower the speed limit, to abolish the shopping Sunday, to allow people to shower only five minutes a day. The Netherlands of Mark Rutte, Rutteland, has become an insane country. What I just said, all these examples, that is not climate policy, it is climate terror! We're the victims of climate terror. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, people at home are falling for it less and less. The acceptance of the climate agreement is falling dramatically. People don't fall for your bullshit anymore, Mr. Rutte. You will find out on 20 March, because then the voter will let you know what they think of this climate madness. The common man and woman, Mr. Rutte, are at least sick of you. They've been squeezed and cheated by you for years. On March 20th, they get a chance to send you away. I can't wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u118	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u119	Jeroen has four growing children. Jeroen is so eager to make his house energy efficient. But Jeroen doesn't know where to pay for it. Jeroen is one of the people who reported to our Rising Energy Account. His account rises by €36 per month. According to the Consumers' Association, the average increase in the energy bill for a household will be €290 next year. Jeroen's story isn't on its own. Since we started that hotline three weeks ago, almost 1,500 reports have been made. All of them are reports of people seeing their energy bill rise. Often their energy bill doesn't just increase. No, it's also the rent, it's also the cost of childcare, it's also the VAT, it's also the care premium. People are angry. You're right. The Netherlands has the second highest tax on gas for households across Europe. Households pay 183 times more energy tax on electricity and 21 times more on gas than large companies, but we all fail to achieve the climate targets. For those who still think that: raising the energy bill does not work to achieve the climate goals. People don't take this anymore. And rightly so. It is ineffective, it is unjust and it is particularly detrimental to the basis of support. Does the Prime Minister intend to intervene now and reduce the energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u120	I agree with the latter, because I believe that the Prime Minister should intervene in order to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u121	To lower the energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u122	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u123	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u124	But I also have a question for you. Even now, you talk a lot about the bill, but little about the climate. I saw you recently in the CEN programme and I almost had the impression that I saw a climate skeptic sitting there. You said, "Yes, 97% think the climate is warming up; I don't know much about it; it must be true." Does the SP see itself, as a number of years ago, at the forefront of tackling the climate problem and does it think it is intrinsic? Or has the SP gone a little away from that and does it consider the targets less important than the resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u125	It's nice that Mr. Buma is looking at JENSEN. That will do Mr Jensen good, I think. What I said there was about science. That was the discussion about "science says the world is warming up through human action." Mr Jensen said to me: yes, that is not true at all; I do not believe that at all. What I said to Mr Jensen there is: we can argue about that, but it is a fact that 95% of science agrees on that, so we should be a little sensible and we should listen to it. So to answer your question, Mr Buma, I think I can reassure you in that sense. When the SP came into the Chamber in 1994, my father was also Remi Poppe, who, among other things, created the Environmental Alarm Line. Has the SP grown? Yes, absolutely with actions for a better environment and a clean environment, but also always in a just way. That is also the question I would like to ask you again. Yeah, we need to get to those climate measures. But if you now say 'I agree with the Prime Minister's call to reduce the energy bill', I can also hope that you will vote in favour of the proposal that, now that I have this new information, we will certainly do so in a second period of time in order to actually reduce that energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u126	I am now being asked a question, which, of course, I appreciate very much, because then I can say something without going away from my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u127	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u128	However, I am still trying to tackle the long list of measures that the SP wants to introduce that affect the citizens. I am thinking of a packaging tax of EUR 2 billion a year. That costs an average family hundreds of euros a year, just to buy your bread, to buy your food at the supermarket. It's really not like the companies are just gonna change that. I am thinking, for example, of an open space levy. A family that wants to buy a new house that is not in an existing city will pay more thanks to the SP. The energy tax in their election programme simply goes up by half a billion. I'll just mention a few. But you now object to all measures taken by others, while you do not tell yourself that the SP, when it goes to the electorate, introduces far more taxes than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u129	If the voter wants to know that, Mr Buma, then I think the voter is wise enough to just look it up in our election program. Yeah, that's where you'll find those things. But Mr Buma is only telling half the story. That is a pity, because if Mr Buma were to be honest, he would also tell us what proposals we are making here about every debate on climate action. They always have to do with climate justice, with the question: do we charge where it belongs? 80% of large companies in the Netherlands are still responsible for the largest pollution. Now there is a climate agreement. I would also like to hear what Mr Buma thinks about that. I am very curious about that, because I read in the newspaper that Mr Buma is afraid that there will be a climate revolution and that the people will rise up, but in the meantime there is a climate agreement that I do not think is very good for that people, and also a cabinet that the people are not good for, because the energy bill is going up. But I understand that Mr Buma and I are going to do something about that this afternoon. So that's pure profit. But the bill must of course lie where it belongs. We have made numerous proposals here, including on energy taxation, which Mr Buma mentioned very specifically. Of course, it can go up, provided you distribute the burden fairly, provided you ensure that the big polluters, the big companies, are also going to pay. We have suggested this on a regular basis. Unfortunately, that could not count on the support of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u130	In essence, it is interesting that we now have some kind of mutual interruptions, but I am going to say one thing about this. We all think that the polluter should pay. But the polluter also employs real people, people with jobs. What I really do not understand about the SP is that you do not think about the employees in the Rotterdam port, at refineries, in the chemical industry, at Tata Steel. All these people lose their jobs, or those jobs are in danger, if you charge the companies where they work. It's changed before, but who's going to pay the charges? The Dutch citizens. You see polarization between large companies and the citizen. It may be new to the SP, but there are a lot of ordinary Dutch people who are entitled to a decent job at these big companies. That's what you should be standing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u131	Well, Mr. Buma, that's not new to the SP. What is perhaps new to Mr Buma is that these big companies are making huge profits. Last week, I think Shell made 64 million dollars a day worldwide. A day! That's a huge amount of money. So we really don't have to pretend that these big companies are so pathetic and will go bankrupt right away, and everyone will end up on the street. Of course that's not gonna happen. And let's face it, we don't ask crazy. We don't ask for extremes. We ask for very normal things. We ask these large companies again, which are responsible for 80% of the pollution, to pay their fair share. That's not weird, is it? Mr. Buma can't argue with that, can he? We're not asking for extreme measures. We're asking you to do your fair share. Even De Nederlandsche Bank, still not known as a SP-instituut, has said that the passing on of these costs in the prices will not be so bad. This will vary from sector to sector; that is true. I agree with Mr Buma. You should take a good look at that. Of course. It's possible. But I'm sure it won't be so bad. So I would really like to tell Mr Buma the following. If this cabinet wants to get rid of the stamp that it's only there for the multinationals and not for the people, that it's only there for Shell and not for society, then we'd better get together first of all to lower the energy bill. That's what we're gonna do this afternoon, I understand. And secondly, to get a decent CO2 tax, for example, to make the big companies pay their fair share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u132	If Mr Buma tells Mr Marijnissen a number of burdens, namely that there are burdens on companies too, she says: but then you have to tell the honest, the whole story. But, in all modesty, this is true of the objections that the SP Group has to government policy. If you only remember that the energy bill is going up or that the VAT is going up, then you also have to tell the whole story, then you also have to tell the honest story. We have a couple of referees, like the CPB and the Nibud. The Nibud looks at the family wallet and is led by a former SP senator. He takes all the pluses and minuses. What will be more expensive and cheaper? Where do people get more money and where do they pay more? At the bottom of the line, he says, there's a plus, people are getting ahead of it. If we have to tell the fair story about the SP election programme, then the SP must also tell the honest story about government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u133	Sure thing, Mr Segers. But that honest story, which a lot of people will recognize, is that these are beautiful purchasing power cards. That's also the story of the cabinet. When the cabinet arrived, it was said it would be there for the common man. But what do we see? Up the energy bill, up the care premium, up the rent, up the tax. And what do we see at the same time? That of the big companies. That's part of telling the honest story. I haven't seen this cabinet yet, so I'm telling you quite frankly, Mr Segers, what it does to put the bill where it belongs. We have had whole debates here, for example on dividend taxation. And in the end, it was decided that the tax on profits would go down a little further, because it should not be the case that the big companies would pay their fair share. The whole debate on climate change measures is likely to become the new dividend debacle. The ordinary people are going to pay for it, they're going to pay €290 more for their energy bill, while the big companies like Shell are going to pay $64 million a day; a day! The dance is coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u134	I would almost say that Mrs Marijnissen is doing it again! You're just saying again where the bill goes up, where more has to be paid. But there are also advantages. For example, people pay less income tax. It is good that we do not leave the calculation to the SP Group, but that we have independent institutions for that, for example the Nibud. Arjan Vliegenthart is at the head of the Nibud. He wiped all those bills together, grabbed his calculator and started math. He says: at the end of the year, the citizen will have more left. Is that right or is that wrong? Is that a lie, as Mrs Marijnissen says here, or is Arjan Vliegenthart right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u135	Arjan Vliegenthart was a wise senator of the SP and a wise alderman of the SP in Amsterdam. The dumbest thing you can do is contradict Arjan Vliegenthart. I certainly won't. But Arjan Vliegenthart said something else. I hope Mr Segers heard that, too. He analyzed that people might get a little better, but that a lot of people don't feel that way. Those are the people who report to us and perhaps to you. Those are the people who have to pay for more expensive groceries at the cash register and wonder why their VAT is going up, while the income tax for companies like Shell is going down even further. Although, Shell doesn't pay any income tax at all. But why does for other companies, which still have a bit of the decency to pay taxes, reduce that tax on profits even further? That's the contradiction. Research carried out by the Rabobank, not really an SP institute in general, shows that wages have barely increased for 40 years, that they barely increase with prices, that there is little progress, while the profits of large companies have exploded. You had a nice interview, I believe... Faithful. That was about raw capitalism. You want to shave the edges off of that. Then I thought, "Yes, I agree." But that is exactly the raw capitalism we are seeing here in this climate debate, isn't it? People's energy bills go up, while big polluters come out of the dance. That's raw capitalism, isn't it? Then we could move together to at least scrape the edges of it and achieve climate justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u136	Mrs Marijnissen has a point about equal pay and a lack of wage increases. That is indeed a serious concern. But the cabinet is trying to do something about that by lowering income taxes. But then I really do have that question. It's not what I feel. I feel a lot of things when I have to pay. But it's not about what I feel, it's about what the hard numbers are. For that we have an independent mathematician, like the Nibud. This is led by a former SP senator, not necessarily a friend of the cabinet. He did the math. Yes, sometimes your criticism makes sense, for example when it comes to purchasing power. But it doesn't make sense if you say that everything becomes more expensive as a result of government policy. Because that is calculated and it is not true: purchasing power is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u137	I would say: Mr Segers, try to tell the people who, for example, come to our hotline. I don't think they suck those stories out of their thumb. They're right to say that. The Consumers' Association says the energy bill is increasing by €200. The care premium has gone up. The rents have gone up. The VAT goes up. I think it's also about the contradictions that people experience, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u138	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u139	Our economy is doing great, better than ever. The profits are huge. The benefits to shareholders may be even greater. Can people please take a little advantage now? It would be even worse and more scandalous if it were not, I would almost say. That would be bad. It is also about the contradiction, which we see here in this debate, that people's energy bills are rising, while big companies are starting to dance. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, people in the media see this cabinet arguing about exactly what climate action is needed. People get scared because everyone has to make a loan to take a heat pump. As current policies fail, we continue to pursue the same policy, but in a higher gear. The climate agreement is again the same VVD song: people pay, the big polluters are spared. According to environmental organisations, households are going to pay around €1.5 billion with this climate agreement. The large polluting industry, which therefore pollutes the most, is making progress with the climate agreement. The climate agreement is no longer supported by the trade union movement, the environmental movement and many Dutch people. An agreement that fails before it arrives must be cancelled. People demand change, and rightly so. The SP is done chasing people at the expense of climate policy, while the big companies are always starting to dance. We want to keep the earth clean and liveable and we want to pass on a beautiful earth to our children, but we have always said that this must be done in a just way. Canada is already introducing it: a CO tax the proceeds of which go to households. Even at higher prices people get better, there is calculated. The SP also had such a model passed on for the Netherlands. If we introduce a minimum CO-tax, a variant with which Economic Affairs itself also calculates, we can make 800,000 homes sustainable over the next ten years, without people being chased for their own expense and taking out loans for a heat pump. Tenants and buyers are getting better with this. They have a better house and a lower energy bill and the pollution in the Netherlands we are reducing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u140	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that it would be very bad if we, as a government, said to people: you need to get off the gas grid and call a bank for a higher mortgage. We really shouldn't. I'm interested, because you're talking about a minimum CO levy. What am I supposed to think about? Is that on top of the European ETS? What kind of sums should we think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u141	I brought the entire report for you, and I can hand it over to you in no time. We had it processed by CE Delft. They use exactly the same principles as the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Again, it's just an example of how you could do this. We really did sit low, because it is on top of that CO tax, but we did count with the same figures as Economic Affairs. Then you see that in a period of ten years up to 800,000 homes can be made sustainable. I am glad that Mr Dijkhoff says that this appeals to him, because I hear his coalition partner Mr Rob Jetten tell on television that he understands that he can take out an individual loan for a heat pump and that he can give it to everyone. He's willing to give everyone a loan for a heat pump. I don't think that's the way we're supposed to do it, and according to the SP. If we have to do this, we have to do it together. We have put this proposal through to show that a limited CO tax could be a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u142	Yes, but if you have it there for you, I'd just like to hear from you in front of me what kind of tax you're thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u143	That's a carbon tax that's rising. That's what we'll start with, and it'll go up to 2030. Those are numbers that EZK, Economic Affairs, also counts on. This is parallel to what they're already doing in Canada. The research shows that you can make homes sustainable if you do the proceeds in a fund, for example. You can also choose to return a portion to households. In any case, it is a way, a stick behind the door, to force the big polluters to produce greener and more sustainable and to return the proceeds to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u144	I like those benefits, three times already. I'm not trying to catch anyone. I was just wondering how high that sequence is about. Where does it start? Where does it end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u145	I can read it to you, Mr. Dijkhoff. The minimum CO price will then be 18 in 2020, 20.5 in 2021, 23 in 2022 and will then reach 43 in 2030. I've got the whole table right here. I can show it to you in a moment, but I wouldn't want to tire the viewer any further. But the CO-minimum price will then rise from 18 in 2020 to 43 in 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u146	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u147	That really puts us at the bottom. For example, the Netherlands Bank refers to 50. That's much more ambitious. It could be. We would be instantly in favour of that, but this is just to show that with a very minimal pricing you could do a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u148	That is why I was curious, because a sort of arms race on CO taxes of 50, 70 and 100 began. This sounds more realistic. So I'm curious about the rest of the report. When someone talks about a limited levy, I would like to see how I weigh it better in the light of all the other parties' proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u149	I understand that and I call it limited, because we had it calculated with the same figures as Economic Affairs. We do find that on the skinny side. We believe, like De Nederlandsche Bank, that this can be done even more firmly. I believe that this is also in the plans of the Labour Party and GroenLinks. But this is really to show that just with this step in the next ten years, you could make 800,000 homes sustainable without the idiotry that everyone has to take out an individual loan for a heat pump.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u150	I shall return to that last point myself. I agree. It shouldn't be for a small group. That's why I've been working this out for a couple of months now, and I've been leaning on something like a heat fund. The Cabinet is now looking at that too. I will come back to that later. I was just wondering what amounts to think about, also because of the effect on people's jobs. I cannot immediately see what 43 means for certain companies and whether you need new provisions for this, but this sounds more realistic than bidding against each other about the level of the levy and saying: the higher the levy, the better we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u151	Please continue, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u152	That was about the climate justice fund, because that was my question. I welcome Mr Dijkhoff's support. First, I already received Mr Buma's support for reducing the energy bill and now I have the support of Mr Dijkhoff for our climate justice fund. That's good. That is why I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to set up such a fund. The argument in the coalition is getting more and more embarrassing. Who else knows what exactly the words of this cabinet are worth? Many people are concerned about climate change measures and what they are going to mean to them. The VVD has a VVD agreement under the leadership of VVD'ers, the climate agreement, but then the foreman of the VVD, Mr Dijkhoff, says in the newspaper that he does not agree with it. What the hell is that? My question to the Prime Minister is: how does he feel about that now? Klaas Dijkhoff also says in the newspaper that he would side with the citizens when it comes to it. If that is the case, then why does the cabinet now raise the energy bill so sharply? It's time for climate justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u153	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u154	Mr. Chairman. If there is a social issue at the moment, it is the climate and everything that goes with it. It keeps the moods busy, and rightly so, because it is that important. It has become clear that a large majority of this Chamber has supported the objectives of the Climate Act. On the other hand, following the publication of the draft climate agreement proposals, it has been found that all the authors of the law have different ideas as to how these objectives should be achieved. This probably also applies to most parties at the negotiating table. We therefore agree on the objectives, but not on the means. 50PLUS has a clear starting point: the polluter pays. How can there even be another option? We heard in Buitenhof about NOS much earlier that ten companies emit most of the pollution. They emit three times more than all Dutch households combined. Then it is not possible to sell that, in the climate agreement concept before us, large consumers are again merciful about it. This is the chance to do things differently, otherwise we will lose the support of the citizens. The Emissions Trading System, the ETS, is as a system of pricing for CO efficient and highly effective in the long term. With this instrument, we realize the fundamental redevelopment that we need. The price per tonne of CO will then have to rise gradually and the target group will still have to be increased. So the wheel of the ETS has already been invented. 50PLUS finds it incomprehensible that this system has not become the cornerstone of policy. But if an increased ETS system is international, because that should not be possible, should we not do so with a small leading group of countries, for example Germany, France and Belgium? How does the Minister feel about this? And if even that is not feasible in a north-west ETS framework, a limited and gradual national carbon tax is negotiable for us, while maintaining our competitive position and provided that the citizen fully recovers the revenue from that tax through relief, as De Nederlandsche Bank has also advocated. There are so many promising options: e-fuels, hydrogen, fusion, thorium and so on. The possibilities are huge. Innovations also provide new jobs. We can therefore see where we position these innovative activities: in those areas where there is most unemployment, for example. Does the Minister also take into account the people who are affected, such as workers from a coal power plant, when it is closed down? We have to guide them from work to work. It is certainly not the least important to invest in better public transport, and in water safety in the Netherlands. Climate change, an increase in sea level, will result in an increasing proportion of the Netherlands no longer having dry feet. We can only spend our euro once. We can no longer spend money spent too quickly on expensive climate policies on nature and the environment, especially on care and education. We do not want an effective environmental policy and an effective nature policy, such as biodiversity and waste management. Mr. Chairman. In the cabinet response it has been stated that the agreement is imputable, but I have heard other sounds about it as well. Can the Minister reflect on that? You will understand that we are curious about the transfer, and that we will be very critical of where the costs fall. Will the cabinet actually make the polluter pay? The 50PLUS Group is concerned and wishes to make one thing clear: the burden must not be imposed unilaterally on the citizens. No, even more so: citizens must be spared as much as possible; and certainly the lowest incomes, but of course not only the lowest incomes. And chairman, still a little longer. By the way, 50PLUS believes that the pension discounts should be cancelled. 20 March will be the referendum on pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u156	Thank you, Mr President. We owe it to our stand to leave the world better to our children than we found it. Climate policy is an important instrument in this regard. And when we look at the climate policy over the last 30 to 40 years, we see that this is mainly composed of a lot of words and not enough of deeds. The result is that we haven't made any progress. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the reality is that the climate has changed. The question then is: what are we going to do about it? In this respect, DENK stands for a realistic approach, with a fair sharing of costs. The big companies, which emit the most, have to pay for the costs. According to CBS, large companies account for 78% of emissions. Only ten companies, including Shell, Tata Steel, Nuon and Essent, you know them from those flashy commercials, which account for 50% of the CO emissions. Shell, the mother of all multinationals, master of tax avoidance, is also the largest CO extortionist in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, we are at the bottom of Europe with 6.6% of renewable energy. Then this cabinet claims to be the greenest cabinet ever. It's a big lie. Almost all other countries are doing better than we are. All the objectives set are out of sight. The target of 14% of renewable energy by 2020 will only be met by half. 25% CO2 reduction in 2020 compared to 1990: out of sight. We were only at 13% reduction in December 2018. The year 2020 will start in 11 months. Mr. Chairman. Conclusion: Climate policy has not worked so far and is not credible. What do you expect from the cabinet? You'd say action! So what did the coalition do? She has put a lot of parties at each other's tables for a long time, led by a climate godfather of VVD-huisze, Ed Nijpels. When the plans were presented on Friday before Christmas, they were welcomed by VVD Minister Wiebes. After Christmas, climate carnival sclown Klaas Dijkhoff blew up the deal. By the way, he did that in an excellent one-two with hate-sowing newspaper De Telegraaf. The VVD plays disgusting political games about the backs of future generations. In this respect, the VVD deserves a red card in the upcoming elections on 20 March. Give Rutte a red card: red for Rutte. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the lack of credibility and abuse by the VVD for cheap electoral gain, there is another problem with climate policy. Global warming is a global problem. The Netherlands only produces 0.35% of total CO emissions in the world, the rest of the world 99.65%. So if we in the Netherlands do our best and the rest of the world doesn't, it's mopping with the tap open. CO emissions have no limits. The limit in the atmosphere is not closed, not even by Wilders or the VVD. We need to be realistic about that. Mr. Chairman. DENK, together with the rest of the opposition, signed the letter to get the transfer of the plans before the state elections to the Chamber, and then to have a debate on them immediately. The group of DENK will assess the final climate agreement on the basis of three criteria. One, the climate agreement must be credible. We don't want any more test balloons and air castles. The rapid closure of the Hemweg coal power station and the CO levy are the first test moments in this respect. Two, the costs arising from the climate agreement must be distributed fairly and fairly. The costs must therefore mainly be borne by the largest polluters. And three, to conclude with, the climate agreement must not be blinded by the ambitions of the canal belt's climate drones on the one hand and the people who are deniers of climate change on the other. The Netherlands, with 0.35% of emissions, should not make its role bigger than it is, but should not sit back and do nothing at all. Realism is the key word. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u157	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u158	Thank you, Mr President. In September, Greta was Thunberg, I can't pronounce her name as well as she does herself in The Hague. I took her to this room. She's been standing here, but there was no one to listen to her. That's too bad, because she says very sensible things. This girl from Sweden has organised a climate strike, which is being followed worldwide. For example, she says to world leaders, as well as to all the people here: you are through your excuses and we are through our time. One of those excuses is acceptance. Of course, support is important, but the Environmental and Nature Planning Agency, the predecessor of the PBL, has already carried out a study in 2004 which shows that 70% of the Dutch think that the government is committed to solving environmental and climate problems. You might think that this percentage may have been reduced in the meantime, but Motivation repeated that study in 2018 and it has risen to 76%. It is a pity that Mr Buma has left the Chamber for a moment, because I wanted to ask if people here in the Chamber would know what the first citizens' initiative the House of Representatives has achieved. Within no time, that citizens' initiative received more than 100,000 signatures and it was supported by the churches. This citizens' initiative was launched by Youth Environment Active in 2006 and was called Stop Error Meat. It was a whole package of measures to reduce the Dutch livestock by 50%, calculated, calculated, sensible, in time, so that farmers would still have time to switch and it would not cost the taxpayer an incredible amount of money. It had tremendous support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u159	And Mr. Buma is just here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u160	Yes, Mr. Buma is here. I would have liked to ask if he knew that this first citizens' initiative was about a shrinkage in livestock and that the churches supported it. Mr. Chairman. If we had listened to the citizens in time, we would not have ended up in this shameful climate conflict: doing a little bit and capturing each other about what it's going to cost, knowing what the real question is. We already know what it takes. The climate agreement is based on hopefully 2°C, but probably much more. We hear the spokesperson of D66 say: if it is not enough, we will add up and there will be additional measures. Like that's free. I don't know why the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economic Affairs are both looking on their phones, but I have serious questions. I want to know what it is going to cost the taxpayer if we continue to dawdle with this package and ultimately take the measures that we have known for years that they need to be taken, because we have known for over 12 years that livestock needs to shrink. Why does the Prime Minister think that there can be poldering, when, for example, there is an official report on the shrinkage of livestock from one of the main consultative bodies of the Cabinet, the Environment Council? It says: The longer you wait, the harder it becomes; a shrinkage of the livestock is inevitable. Then why would LTO know better? He says about the climate agreement: we won at those tables and we are not going to do it. Mr. Chairman. Politicians are scared. They're afraid of a newspaper that doesn't exactly have the reputation in time to know what the good and the bad side of history is. Young people are being pissed off for the climate strikes they organize. That newspaper literally says that young people have to clean up other people's mess and just have to go to school, actually supported by the Minister of Economic Affairs. Mr. Chairman. This afternoon, the Party for Animals issued a letter to the Board of the Chamber asking the Chamber to break the rules, to seek new rules and to organise the right of young people to participate in the Chamber. They don't have a vote; they can't vote until they're 18. It is very important that their sound be heard here in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u161	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u162	Thank you, Mr President. We're actually facing an unprecedented job that's gonna take another 31 years. There's a lot to be done. We are going to take measures in those years that we don't even know yet, because there will be innovations that will help us to reduce CO emissions and make our country run well in the meantime. But that also means that you still have to have decades of support, both in the country and in politics. So then, especially at the start, you have to operate with caution. We have to cherish that support. That support for climate action is quite right in the Netherlands, but if the amount increases in the question of how much you have to pay for it yourself, then the support will decrease. A part of the unrest is now also in cry that everything has to be done very quickly or that it is thought: there is support, so let's go even faster, do even more, set even higher goals and ask more of people. We are working on this job in two phases: one takes eleven years and the other 31 years. And I think that in this job, we need to offer people peace and perspective. We must avoid shooting into all kinds of climate stress. That happens, for example, with the delusion that in 11 years' time you should no longer be driving a petrol car. Another problem that I hear a lot back is that we all have to turn in our central heating boiler in a few years' time. Sounds like we're gonna have to get rid of the gas in a couple of years. Yes, we stop the gas extraction in Groningen, but the Netherlands will continue to use gas for a very long time, also to heat your house. We're going to change that gradually, but it's gonna take a long time. Maybe even a lot of houses eventually stay connected to a hybrid system, where gas is still needed for very cold days in the winter; perhaps that is the most efficient. So a lot of those images that make it look like we're gonna throw everything over at once aren't right, aren't necessary to achieve the goals and aren't helping to support them. I would therefore ask the cabinet to keep an eye on the perspective that people have with them, in the course of further communication, but also in the roll-out of measures, because that is an immediate translation. I also ask the Cabinet to keep its peace in this process that is going to take so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u163	Has Mr Dijkhoff even read the Climate Law, which he himself submitted and where he voted in favour? Does he even know what's in there? Does he know what he wants to commit the Netherlands to? "We may always use gas," he says. But the Climate Act states that we must have "95% CO emissions reduction" and "100% sustainable energy production." That's how it's defined. That is not possible at all! He sells fairy tales when he says, "It doesn't cost so much money." Ed Nijpels, member of Mr Dijkhoff's party, says it costs 4 billion a year. In Rijswijk alone, it costs 800 million dollars for this reason, in fact, your own party has left the college to isolate all these houses. That's $16,000 per inhabitant. If you extrapolate that to the whole of the Netherlands, you'll get 272 billion for that alone. So what is Mr Dijkhoff talking about when he says it shouldn't be too fast, that we might continue to use gas and that people can keep driving their petrol car? You're talking!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u164	I am talking about exactly what Mr Baudet is exhibiting here. He calls it "extrapolating," but he sketches huge images on the basis of poor information and calculates them for the whole of the Netherlands. That would put everyone in the stress if it were so. I'm saying that if you take care of those houses... Let's go! Let's go! You're gonna have some green gas later. You can't change nothing, so not everyone's gonna keep heating his house up like this. But the idea that you can't buy a central heating boiler in three years' time, or the idea that everyone will be disconnected at some point and have to see for themselves how he gets warm, or the images that it can't be carried for our economy and that there aren't any advantages to it... Against precisely that hysteria where Mr Baudet is pretty good with his own maths, I fight. I see that we still have decades to achieve these objectives. The Climate Act also takes into account revisions, as well as innovation and developments that may still exist. And we have no social interest in some of them, perhaps Mr Baudet, to evoke ghost images and scare people. We have more interest in realism in this dossier. And we have to keep in mind the effects it has on people's wallets and take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u165	But it's not about panic-swinging at all. It's about getting a real picture of what's being decided here, what's going on here and what amounts of money you're going to spend on this absurd idea. The energy agreement alone, the agreement before the current agreement, already cost more than 100 billion. The climate measures that are now all on the table cost hundreds of billions, even for years to come. I think it's funny, though, to say that we shouldn't panic and take it easy, but you have to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u166	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u167	This is simply the consequence of what is in that law, a law that you yourself have submitted and adopted. Then you can't say yes, but we don't want that cost? One has a consequence for another. Government is far-sighted, they say, but you pass a law without having any idea how you intend to finance it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u168	Through a very long detour in his own position, Mr Baudet arrives at a conclusion that does not make any sense. I've just explained what that law is like. I'm sorry to hear that you're always pulling numbers out of context. You have a scientific background; you should know better. You do the same in the case of migration. Then you add up all the knowledge workers from Asia and give the impression that these are refugees. You then accuse us of being responsible for those numbers. I don't think that's a fair way to deal with people. I very much agree with your call to stick to the facts. That's what we have to do. The fact remains that we are going to take the climate measures that need to be taken in the coming years, that you are going to see first what the effects are, that there is a cost, that there are benefits, and that it is mainly about how you can achieve this in a way that is payable to households and how you offer them the opportunity to act in order to do so. Another fact is that if you do nothing and the gas price rises enormously, you also have huge costs. You can't predict all that. You cannot predict the future, but I prefer that we emit less, that we make more sustainable and also work on a cleaner country, and in the meantime become less dependent on weird oil and gas regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u169	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u170	I'm gonna try one more time. Mr Dijkhoff says that it should not be too expensive. How much does he want to spend on all these plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u171	That's a private question. I have already spent a lot of money on it, but I do not think I can just ask the investments I made myself in making my home more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u172	No, I mean how much he wants to spend out of politics. How much can this cost him? What's the maximum? In an interview, you said very bravely: I will never drop the citizen. That means it shouldn't be too expensive. What do you think is too expensive? What do you think of the maximum we can pay for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u173	That too is a question I cannot answer, because you have to see what the benefit is. If it's a one-time investment that earns itself back and that you can advance as a government, then you're doing an expense that comes back in the long run, causing the net cost... You advance; they are short-term high costs and in the long term they are lower again. Those are models, too. You have to charge it all to see what it's gonna cost. It also plays a role in what the perspective of action is. If we offer an alternative to lower costs that are greener, and then you deliberately refuse and say you don't want to, when you did have an action perspective and an offer, it may be that it will be more expensive. All these questions need to be considered when it comes to fairness of costs. I can't guarantee things won't be more expensive. Maybe other things are getting more attractive. Before I make a decision on the measures, I'm going to see if it's feasible and affordable on balance. That's my measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u174	Then I'm going to see Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u175	Just a moment, because this is really very important...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u176	Everything's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u177	Mr Dijkhoff says he doesn't know all about it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u178	The final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u179	So he voted for a law with all measures, all targets...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u180	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u181	He just has no idea what it's gonna cost and how he's gonna achieve those targets. That's just the situation here. That's really absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u182	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u183	It is certainly absurd that you do not listen at all and that you do not use the answers to tighten up your statements. Then at least ask a critical question about what I said. That law sets goals, that law sets trials and that law sets targets. How we fill that out will be discussed in the coming months. Then we'll see what the effects are. Mr Baudet also does not know the exact effect for a household of a given measure, unless he is smarter and faster than the mathematicians of this country, who are now calculating. If that is inside, you can see which measure is good to do and which measure leads to quite draconian scenes. You don't take it, or you compensate for it. Those are the effects you need to see. You will also have to review it over the next 31 years, because there are developments in the world market that you don't have in hand which can make one smarter to do than the other. For example, Mr Baudet will experience this process for decades and will be able to conduct this discussion on the basis of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u184	This is actually a question I've been walking around with for a while. What exactly is a climate drag?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u185	We just have a dictionary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u186	I was interested in Mr Dijkhoff's definition. I can also pick up a dictionary and look it up, but I don't think the composition "climate drager" is in it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u187	No. I never...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u188	You called it in The Telegraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u189	I used the word "drummer." And that's in the dictionary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u190	I think it would be nice if you could explain here what you mean by being "climate-drammer."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u191	Then you'll have to ask me what I said first. That's the word "drummer," and that's just in the dictionary. Then I'm talking about people who don't think: we cherish that support, and now we're gonna see how it's done. No, they think that there is support; let's throw the turbo on it, try to go even faster and try to do more. In doing so, you run the risk that the support that was there for a cautious journey will no longer be there for a faster journey, and that you will then get further away from the goals you want to achieve than when you do it more carefully and take people with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u192	In any case, that is an answer to the question of what a climate disaster is. My follow-up question is: is Mr Jetten a climate disaster?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u193	I'm not gonna play this game. I said things about that in an interview. I also said that I want to use that word as little as possible for the rest of the year. Mr Kuzu has just tempted me to say it again, so that I get another dash after my name. I'm not really interested in playing this game.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u194	I did not find it interesting either, until Mr Dijkhoff in De Telegraaf used the word 'climate drammer' and made a coalition colleague for climate drammer. So who's playing political games here? The VVD plays political games. That's one. Why is it important to know what a climate disaster is and whether Mr Jetten is possibly a climate disaster? That is precisely because of the definition given by Mr Dijkhoff himself. Do you then opt in the climate agreement for acceptance, for speed, for affordability? What is the position of the VVD in the broad reflection of the definition of "climate drag" you give here? Where exactly is the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u195	The VVD is outside that definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u196	Mr President, it is very difficult to debate as...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u197	I will answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u198	... Mr Dijkhoff is trying to make a joke about everything and then other political parties are going to take the measure about playing political games. Again, the VVD plays political games here about the backs of future generations. In the run-up to the First Chamber elections and the Provincial State elections, the voter also needs clarity on the VVD's position. A lot of people are also in the dark about where the VVD stands. Are you now in favour of the climate agreement, for all these measures, for the proposals made by 100 parties? Or do you stand for the affordability of all these measures? Then you can refer and bring in all sorts of things about political games, but where does the VVD stand in this story? That is a serious question, which also needs a serious answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u199	I have taken Mr Kuzu's question very seriously and taken it literally, and I have answered it; he can read it back in the Acts. If he's not satisfied with his own question, then I can't help it either. If we are going to dissect everything: I did not call it a political game but a game. I've had a lot of reactions to the interview, but I didn't hear that it wouldn't have been clear. I want to achieve the goals set out in the coalition agreement. I want to meet the climate targets. Today's plans can contribute to this. Those are proposals from the tables. They're being passed on. I believe that we all have a duty here as representatives of the people to assess what they are doing for the climate, what they are doing for the Dutch people's wallet, what the broader effects, such as a waterbed effect in other countries, and how soon the burden-sharing between citizens and businesses will be, because that must include fairness. I believe that it is our responsibility to weigh those elements, and my group will certainly do so, and also to pay very much attention to affordability for people. Climate objectives are important, but no end justifies all means, not even the climate targets. Last year you heard that view literally from me in the General Reviews, so it is now a fairly long and consistent line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u200	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u201	Since Mr Dijkhoff did not give a serious answer to previous questions, thank you for allowing me to put a follow-up question. In my opinion, the crux is also in the division of costs between companies versus private households. We can see at this point that it's crooked. There has just been talk of the fifty-fifty distribution between companies and households. You indicate that it should be more towards companies, that the costs should also be borne by companies. What division are you thinking about right now? Is that 80/20 or 55/45? Which way is it going? Do you also think that the biggest polluters, the outcasts, should account for 80%, including a Shell, a Nuon, an Essent and that kind of business?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u202	The cabinet has indicated that it will review the distribution of the ODE levy, as it is called. That is indeed not to increase the share that the Dutch pay who are not a company. The idea is that you look at it: what is a sensible slide where business contributes more than 50%? If I mention percentages now, that's wet fingering. Then I put it politically because something sounds fun. When they study that, I want to know from the Cabinet what the effects are, the positive and the negative effects, and where the best point is before you have to take any other compensatory measures. I also think two things are important to companies. Yes, the emissions are important, but that doesn't mean everything. You have companies that, in absolute terms, emit less, but could be much easier to emit even less. And you have companies where the whole essence of their production process, of their industrial activity, is accompanied by a lot of emissions and we have no alternative yet. I think you should talk about that, too. What's your perspective? How easy and how realistic is it that you can reduce? If you don't see that, you're just kicking the company out of the country so you don't have a CO reduction, because then they're going to use the same or worse means of production in another country and we're not better off together. Yeah, I think it makes sense that you're looking at companies that emit the most and that you're also the first to address them to reduce. But then you also have to take the second aspect: does such a company with what it does have good opportunities to do so? I do not think that absolute emissions are the only measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u203	I don't think the argument of support is very consistent, because you can provide support if you do it honestly and the VVD doesn't choose to do it. I am curious how the VVD reacts to the position of D66: if it is not enough, then we have to do more. Does the VVD share that? Or does the VVD say: then we simply do not do what we have agreed internationally and then we do not do our best to make our own contribution to stopping climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u204	There will have to be a plan in the spring: how can you reduce 49% to 2030? The question of what we really need to do is also linked to what other countries are doing, whether it will succeed with a leading group and whether the European average is lower. There is also a question I would like to pass on to the cabinet: when do we really see what we need to do in the context of European agreements and how does a European percentage translate into a Dutch percentage? Is that one-on-one or is that an affair? If you do not come up with 49% of the plans this spring, then it will become even more complicated and you will have to see if you can come up with other plans to 49%. But before I say that you can carry them out, they have to meet the test of affordability for people and burden sharing between citizens and businesses. Those three touchstones stand up for me. It's easier if you scrape one. I understand, but that's not my ambition. I think it should be possible, but of course it will be more difficult if you set yourself more goals at the same time. But yes, the method of calculation is that we are going to count to 49% and only later will we know I would like to hear from the cabinet when what we have decided in Europe and how that relates to what we are going to do in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u205	I hear that the VVD also says: we take this step and if we need more, we need to see if we need to do more. I agree with the VVD: affordability for citizens is a big thing. But I'll tell the VVD you can handle that already, so that's call one. Then call two. Is the VVD willing to acknowledge that if you have to do more at a later stage, it costs even more and is even more difficult? You may also ask yourself whether it is wise to continue to talk about Lelystad Airport or Schiphol. I have already mentioned the example of the livestock and there is already a report on this from a consultative body of the government. If you're gonna issue permits now and allow that growth and you're gonna have to reverse it, you're gonna have to buy them out. Is the VVD prepared to recognise that it is going to be more expensive and expensive and more expensive, for taxpayers, if we wait now and still have to take those steps later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u206	Sometimes. I sometimes think: if only we had built more nuclear power stations 20 years ago, we could now have a significant CO reduction with lower costs. And indeed, it is not so convenient to open an airport now to close it in a few years. But I'm making it even harder, because I also want to preserve our prosperity and our economy. I do not want to reduce CO by reducing our country, our prosperity and our economy, so that makes the task more difficult. I think we can do it with innovation. I think that if you are just a little earlier in some areas than other countries, that innovation can also generate a lot of trade. We can take advantage of that, too. Part of our economy can rely on providing solutions that we've just come up with a little earlier and then sell them to the rest of the world. I can see the bright side too, but you shouldn't do things right now if you already think you need to go back on them. As far as I'm concerned, Lelystad could open up, but we won't have to close it again in a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u207	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u208	That is contrary to what Mr Dijkhoff has just said and what I actually liked, namely that it might not be wise to do so. The Party for Animals provides that shrinkage of aviation is necessary. The VVD thinks that goes too far, but can we agree a standstill, no growth, to give ourselves as much space as possible to take those additional steps if it turns out that this is too little? Surely that is a reasonable proposal that the VVD should be able to support, also in order not to insanely cost the taxpayer in order to reverse all the things that we have now authorised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u209	I do not think that this type of action will prevent certain trends and developments and growth. You can only decide that they will not take place in the Netherlands and that is too limited for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u210	Then Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u211	Mr. Chairman. This is a bit of a weird show, isn't it? Mr Dijkhoff is here to congratulate himself on having such a clear and consistent line, but we have seen something quite different. We've seen something quite different. We see an unhealthy amount of VVDs on a tiny surface that make a plan together. Wiebes, Rutte, Dijkhoff, Nijpels and Van Nieuwenhuizen make a plan together, negotiate until deep into the night, send it up and then four weeks later Dijkhoff walks to the mailbox and says: "What have I found? This isn't my plan. It's a polder experiment. I wouldn't have done it like this." But you can't. That's really not fair. It's not fair. Nor is it real to deal with something that concerns a lot of people. Mr Dijkhoff says in that interview, which was so clear: I am dropping the cabinet rather than the citizen. That's how he got close to both at the same time. My question to him is who he drops earlier, the big polluter or the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u212	Mr Asscher sketches an image that is indeed not so beautiful, but that image is not correct. Well, I'm sorry about that. He then does not ask a question about it and that is useful in itself, but the picture he sketched for it is not how it happened. I have a week and a half before the 21st, when the products came off the tables, "design of a climate agreement," I believe it is already announced that what is going to come out of it is a product of parties who have negotiated with each other and have spoken with the cabinet, but that it is not something that politics does not have a say on, that it is not something that has already been agreed on, that it has yet to be judged and that we are going to do it politically here. I said that in advance, online, in a comment, and immediately that Friday at Pauw a week and a half earlier. After that, I saw that the image was completely different, that the image really came into being as if it had already been copied. Just as Mr Asscher has just described, as if these coalition parties had all signed off on the cross. That's not true, so I think it's up to me to refute that false image. Then what matters is who I want to drop, the cabinet or the polluter. Well, I'm not going to drop the cabinet. I intend to work with the coalition to make plans to achieve the objective, with due regard for the burden on ordinary people and with a fair distribution between citizens and businesses. I don't think I'm gonna drop companies if they pay big on their own CO2 reduction, but I'm gonna call them on their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u213	Mr Dijkhoff says that this is not the case. But that's how it happened, of course. He himself has been negotiating until deep into the night what is or is not being sent out. He was there in that cockpit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u214	That's not true. That's just false.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u215	Well, then you've been sleeping, but you were one of those who negotiated there with your colleagues from the coalition, with the Prime Minister, with Wiebes about what could or should not be sent to the Planning Bureau and what cabinet letter came with it. You can deny that, but what we are seeing here are two Dijkhoffs: the Dijkhoff outside, the Dijkhoff pilot who says 'nothing to do with the climate agreement', and the Dijkhoff here says 'no, it did not happen at all; I have always said so'. It can't be! You are the leader of a large group, of a large government party. And there will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u216	I'm glad you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u217	Yes. It's nice of you to behave accordingly. That means that when you make agreements on climate policy, you're not gonna call all the other drammers but you're gonna do what you say. You say, "I don't want to drop the citizen." Yes, you do. My question to you is: can the taboo be paid off because it is a taboo thing to you on the CO levy, on the polluter? Because that's the only real alternative to that whole smokescreen you've built around your own climate agreement. It is of two and one: either you withdraw from the goals or...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u218	Mr Asscher is very good at this; he did so at the dividend tax. He sketches an image of how things didn't work out, makes it very shady about it, makes it quite credible too................................................................................................................................................................................................ I am not going to stand here lying to pretend that Mr Asscher's untruthful version is correct. We were in that cockpit. In that cockpit we didn't look at everything, we didn't go through everything, we didn't say: we can't go through this, we can go through this. The things we discussed in the cockpit was a pre-selection of the cabinet that we said were sensitive things. And gosh, what did the coalition and the cabinet come up with on everything we discussed there? We're also having alternatives passed on. That only confirms what I said, namely that we do not simply take things over from the table, because when it has been discussed there, there are also alternatives. As regards CO, Mr Asscher put a taboo on me first and then, when I say something about it, look and say: oh, he's falling away. The day after you sent your CO transfer to the PBL, journalists asked me if I was sure, because I was so kind to you. I'm sorry about that now. This is what I said at the time. There is now a variant of the cabinet with a fine, which I certainly want to give a chance. I also see that there are people who say in advance that it is impossible. I'm just waiting to see if I can. I think it is very charming that you and companies should pay a carbon tax that is already there, the European ETS, and that you should then say to them: we want you to reduce CO emissions, which means that we also accept that you are releasing another part of it, so put your money into reducing that CO. I hear others say: they're only going to do that if you take it first and then give it back or not give it back. I also said at that time on your proposal that, if Mr Wiebes' plan is correct, that has come from those tables, I hope other parties will give it a chance. But if that is not the case, if it says 'brilliantly conceived but implementation is difficult', then I also understand that the CO levy is fully included in that discussion. That is why I have just asked your colleagues who spoke about this: "Is it a fixed agent, or can we look at the relationship to the ETS? Can you make an exception for certain companies, because it is not actually a CO tax but simply a banishment of that company from the country, where thousands of jobs are lost?" That is why I am actively and constructively talking to you about this. I hope that the malus system, the penalty system, works well and that we give it a fair chance. I'm taking everything into account, so I'm also taking into account how it doesn't work properly. Then I understand that this drug is coming back on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u219	Mr Dijkhoff again talks about the dividend tax. He's dragging it around everywhere. That's not what this is about. However, there is an agreement: a measure that nobody wants, which is suddenly there at the request of the large multinationals and which goes off the table after a great deal of effort, and here is a measure that everyone wants; 71 economists, the American central banks, a large number of political parties and a large number of voters, including your voters, namely a CO levy, which suddenly does not come into existence, which is not included in the documents. But I hear here the Dijkhoff saying: yes, if that CO tax comes out of the calculations better than Wiebes' plans, then we are going to choose it. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u220	I didn't just say that, because we have to look at all the calculations. So it'll knock again. It is not just a question of calculating how much CO reduction it produces or how much revenue it produces for the Treasury, but also about the impact on employment in the Netherlands. It should not be the case that you transfer a company across the border, where it emits just as much, but that a lot of Dutch people have lost their jobs. So I've got a few more nuances. But it has always hung above the market. In my opinion, the cabinet said in the letter that it is asking for a study of all kinds of variants, including a fixed We can then combine this with the passing on of the proposals from various parties, all of them weighing together and co-ordinating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u221	As far as I am concerned, this is really the profit of the debate: the CO levy is still there. So we can talk about this after the transfer due in March, to see how we come to the most effective way of reducing CO emissions. That's an absolute win. I would like to talk to Mr Dijkhoff about the statements he has made. For a year, negotiations were conducted by the cabinet. The coalition has also said many times: this is a fantastic process. But if you then almost wipe that away as the group chairman of the largest party, so of 'they are just options and we can choose for ourselves', then I understand that perhaps that does not entirely create the right atmosphere in which we can come up with solutions together. My specific question to Mr Dijkhoff is: what matters would he like to take out, or what things would he like to add to the agreement that is now in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u222	Once again, I understand that it seemed clearer in January than before, but I had said it many times before. Also to warn of the image that you would know the 21st what the Netherlands is going to do and that you would say: that comes from those tables, they have polded about it and then politics takes over without a care. It's a bit like that in that introduction: we have a table, then it's calculated, then the cabinet will talk about it, then the Chamber will talk about it and then we'll establish it. Then I think: that is not how it is; that is not how we work here as a parliament. I do not think that would be pleasant for you as an opposition, if you still want to build in your own proposals. With what's now there, it depends mostly on the billing. I hope it all comes from that, but I have the feeling that there has been a lot of "what are the burdens for people, and can they still do so?" I also heard that a bit back from people who sat at the tables but then thought: oh, now I am also co-responsible for the other tables. I'm just concerned about that stacking effect, and I'm making a reservation. Furthermore, there are things that are not in themselves disastrous, but that still have to be worked out very much. Let's take an easy example, meat consumption. If that leads to companies putting alternatives at an eye level, I know a lot about them. I'm not gonna interfere with that. But if it comes out that we want there to be a law that says that you can only eat meat three times a week, then of course I'm not going to be for it. I'm gonna let you work a whole ton in every day. That's not very healthy, but I'd like to release you in that. So it's part in the stack effects and it's part in what's read in it and what can be taken out of it. It then depends on whether I say: this is not a measure I would support. What I would like to add is to facilitate people even more. I'd like to give people an even more chance to participate. I mentioned the heat fund before. You can say to people "you have to take care of your own warmth through your own home," but our country is built in such a way that heat is actually a collective good. You have a gas connection and that's where you connect your central heating boiler; that's how we're used to it. A few people are completely autarkic and do it all by themselves. That's great for them, but that's not the way most Dutch people are. If you're going to say "you have to get rid of it all; it all has to be different," then you're going to create a lot of stress first. If you then say "but that's okay, because you earn it back in 30 years and you can borrow for it," then you don't take that stress away enough. So I think it should be a combination of advance and part of the subsidy to remove certain costs, but I would also ask the Cabinet to take it widely. You shouldn't, in my view, just open this up to a very limited income group. For example, it could also be open to companies that offer heat as a service, so you really just know: I have a contract with someone, who I pay further, who has installed an installation with me and if there is something wrong with it, then I call that person, and then I keep about the same bill as I had. I therefore think that we should go a step further than the text of the agreement. I therefore ask the cabinet to take this up in full when the heat fund is being drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u223	That sounds nice: facilitating citizens so that they can make that transition to a different way of heating their homes. I also asked what would come out of such an agreement. I think that Mr Dijkhoff's interview at the beginning of this year has caused a great deal of unrest. He also confirms the image here as if the agreement proposed that you should only eat meat three times a week. As if a party here in the House of Representatives would have proposed even our friends of the Party for Animals have never done so.... that there would be a law that says that you can only eat meat three times a week. No one's suggesting that. This debate, in which you had a very nice debate with Mr Baudet, is about the facts and the images. To be honest, I think you are contributing to creating false images when it comes to how we should tackle climate change. There is no one who proposes that there should be a legal obligation how many more times you can eat meat. That is a disaster in terms of implementation and a major problem in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u224	Agreed. That's why I said hypothetically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u225	That's not gonna happen. That's exactly what you're taking out. Of everything you could choose, you choose something from the chord that isn't in it. My question is, what do you not want? You call me what you need to get out of here. I don't want to take over everything either. But can you tell me what really stands in the way of proposals that you think we should not do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u226	Again, I'm not saying that's what it says. I have put a reservation on a lot of things that need to be worked out. I've just noticed that the image was wrong. Already before those tables delivered their product, I have tried many times already I even put that on TV one and a half weeks in advance to prevent this image from coming into being. I therefore felt that I needed to do more to remove the unrest that I noticed with my constituents, but also simply to correct the wrong images when talking to people on the street who were all talking about it. I have said that there is still a Chamber that will look after affordability and will support it. The hysterical image of "these are the plans; this is all going to happen, no matter what it costs," I thought I'd put it right. When I look at the chord, there are still things in there that I think can lead to, and you have to be clear that we're not going to do that. Then I come to Mr Klaver's final question. If you look at the terrain of the cars, I think that there is an image from that agreement that I actually find obsolete. That is why we have put alternatives aside, just on cover. It's like we have to go to a lot of trouble to get people into an electric car. Like that's a decline. You can only think that if you've never driven it. I think that development, of people who just think "okay, as long as I'm sure I can load it on time and that it's all well arranged," goes much faster. I also think that other resources should be looked at than just subsidies, which must be paid by others. I take this opportunity to take this opportunity to shorten my speaking time in order to pass the next question on to the cabinet. I read that Belgium, for example, has said: we as a government guarantee the sale of an x number of cars, but we expect, because of the massive guarantee we give, that you give a discount. The amounts offered by manufacturers as a discount on the catalogue price are even higher than the intended subsidy from the tables. I ask the cabinet to look into this and let us know if I have understood this Belgian example correctly and whether there are any hooks and eyes on it. If you could do that, then those are smarter ways to do it than in the classic way with subsidies and taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u227	I think that, as far as cars and the plans contained in the agreement are concerned, we can agree that we too are not in favour of the way in which subsidies have now been chosen. But Mr Dijkhoff speaks in images all the time. Perhaps there is a problem in this: the images, the images, the images that have been created about this climate agreement and the whole climate debate. In his attempt to restore those images, there was some sort of image storm, you could almost say. In his attempt to restore the image, he might destroy more than he loves. I think that Mr Dijkhoff is maintaining images of how we all want to cost people. You can say a lot about Mr Jetten, but as far as I am concerned he is a climate changer and not a dragon. No one here wants to cost citizens, but that is the impression that Mr Dijkhoff has created. He has also acted as if left-wing parties, including myself, would like to put people at a cost. I don't think anyone wants to do that. That is why I think that Mr Dijkhoff is doing well to be very careful in restoring these images. He is indeed the group chairman of the largest party. That also requires care. If we are to ensure that the whole of the Netherlands is going through this great climate transition, we must be careful in the way we are trying to fight images ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u228	Anyone can give their review of how I handled it. In any case, I have noticed that it has brought back the necessary peace in my constituency to see which proposals can and cannot be accepted and what proposals we can make. I also note that in the debate, fortunately, this is true not only for my party, but for many more parties, we are now placing more emphasis on the feasibility and affordability for people rather than just saying 'if we do not, it can never happen again' and 'we have to go harder and faster than the rest of the world' and 'we have to become a kind of testing ground for the world' and '5% is actually still on the tight side'. It is fine that Mr Klaver gives a different review of how I did that, but I do see it as a positive effect that a pass has been put in place in the discussion, that there is space, apart from just "must, it has to, it has to," that we all now pay more attention to the consequences for people and that we all obviously want to keep them in check.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u229	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u230	I must have expressed myself wrong, but this was not about reviewing Mr Dijkhoff. This is about the influence that we as politicians have on public opinion in the Netherlands. He says it was good for my people. I see that people are shocked and that images have been created about what politics would do. And one more thing. You can say a lot of things about my party, but we're called GroenLinks. In our statement of principle 30 years ago, even if you really want to pursue climate policy, that should be accompanied by redistribution. If you pursue climate policy, it will create enormous costs, especially for people at the bottom of society. If you are not prepared to do redistribution too, to level out, then you have a very big problem, because then people cannot experience the climate transition. We said that 30 years ago. I hope that Mr Dijkhoff will also want to think about redistribution, because the climate transition costs a lot of money, and if we do not dare talk about redistribution then people will not be able to experience it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u231	I have a question for Mr Dijkhoff about the famous interview on the climate agreement, in which he said that he would not drop the citizen. I can't wait to see what that means. A great deal has just been said about the climate agreement, what exactly is in it, what you would like to have and what is out there. You say: I am still waiting for the payments; there is still a lot to look at and all that still has to be weighed here. Okay. That's all gonna happen. But for the people at home, one thing is very concrete. That is the energy bill, which will rise almost €300 next year. I just tasted sympathy and support from Mr Buma for my appeal to the Prime Minister to reduce the energy bill. Do you agree with me that it is very unfair that we are all still sitting here debating exactly what measures are going to be taken under the climate agreement, but people are already going to pay a lot more? And do you agree with me that it is detrimental to the support for the rest of these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u232	The energy bill is rising for a number of reasons. Some of us are out of control. I'm not running away from responsibility, but I'm starting with the part that we don't have in control. Those are the rising energy costs. Then you have the higher energy load. That part belongs to us, to the cabinet, to the coalition. There's a good story in itself, I think. The energy tax is a little higher, but we all used that money to lower income tax. This is an economically better way of taxing than what we did, but it is unfortunate for the basis of support, as Mrs Marijnissen is right in saying, as we are on the eve of the climate measures that we have yet to take. Then you still have the feeling of "b" and that is not only a feeling, but also a fact "b" that on your energy bill the load is higher. That's unfortunate. The fact that it came back through income tax is also a fact, but that's not on that account. That is indeed unfortunate for the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u233	I am therefore curious to see what it means in practical terms when Mr Dijkhoff says: I am taking the side of the citizen. Because this energy tax is unfairly distributed. We have already discussed in the debate that large companies are responsible for 80% of pollution, but in the meantime it is paid half-half by households and large companies. That's just not fair. At the same time, it is the reality of people that they pay almost €300 more for the energy bill alone. Here comes the rent, the care premium, the VAT and mention it all again. That is why I am asking you once again. Mr Buma has already expressed his sympathy. If Mr Dijkhoff says 'I am taking the side of the citizen', then I expect him, too, to do something together to bring down that energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u234	Sympathy you may have, but it's cheap. Before I raise expectations, we also need to look at cover and that sort of thing. That's not so easy in the whole structure. As far as the ODE is concerned, of course, it is clear that the cabinet is going to look, and I am also pleased to see whether the balance sheet needs to be revised. Then the balance will always be more positive for citizens than for businesses. Soon when we weigh the whole package, I think we have a good time to weigh all the effects. Then these questions will also come back. But I don't have a solution to cover it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u235	But I think that's so hypocritical! Mr Dijkhoff says: I am taking the side of the citizen. Then I think: yes, good, because I think that is important, especially in the debate on climate action. But people are paying the bill now, because they're seeing that energy bill rise. I think it's really hypocritical that you say in the paper that you're taking the side of the citizen, but that you're saying here, now that we're standing here and can fix something, I don't know one-two-three how to pay it either. But we have already put forward the solution on several occasions. We have already made so many proposals to distribute the costs more fairly, to implement a more equitable climate policy. What this cabinet is doing now is the exact opposite. There is still a lot of discussion here about what is and is not going to be possible and what is or is not going to be passed on, while people are paying the bill, because they are seeing their energy bill rise by almost €300.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u236	The citizen's side is less simple than just a tax cut. I have already said that the tax increase on the energy bill is for the citizen's pocket pocket. But it has led to a tax reduction on the pay slip. Furthermore, there are cost increases that I cannot and cannot always compensate. Furthermore, you must coordinate your policies in such a way that in ten or twenty years' time the same citizen will still have a well-run economy in which he can earn his living and earn enough to raise his children properly and offer them the opportunities he wants to offer them. So it's a more complex story than just saying: if you're on the side of the citizen, then you have to lower all taxes. I'd like to do that, but you'll have to cut the costs, too. And people also need other things from the government, such as security, care and education. So taking the side of the citizen is not as one-dimensional as Mrs Marijnissen says. The distribution between citizens and businesses will be looked at, as far as the ODE alone is concerned. That is what is happening with the whole package that will have to be presented in the near future. And then we'll take a good look at it. And... er...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u237	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u238	Well, that's it, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u239	Mr President, I have an open question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u240	Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u241	"What time is it?', calls on Mr. Wilders. I'll tell you later, Mr. Wilders. That open question is next. About a month and a half ago we were here too, although it was not in this composition. We were talking about the Climate Act at the time. It really mattered to us as a SGP that we couldn't vote for that law. I'll share again why that was so. For us, it was truly insurmountable to set a target of 49% CO reduction in 2030 in a law. A law is really a law for us, and you're supposed to abide by it. All these uncertainties and all those things that we didn't know about were really the reason for us to say: capturing something you don't know how to make it, you shouldn't do. My question, my open question, to Mr Dijkhoff is the following. You did vote in favour of that law, and I believe that you too, and it has also been said in the newspaper, that you see the same uncertainties. What were your reasons for voting in favour of that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u242	Despite the same considerations as Mr Stoffer's, the inclusion of the target has given us sufficient comfort and space to take account of all these issues. That is why we voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u243	That law has been dealt with extensively in the Chamber, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u244	That's right, Mr. Chairman. But I've never been able to ask this question before. I have another follow-up question. After March 13th, we have all these calculations. What if it turns out that it's not real, that it's impossible for people to carry, to reach that 49%? Is it then negotiable to be in 2030, let's say 44%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u245	After 13 March, we have a calculation of the effects in the full implementation of the proposals. If that leads to a not so nice picture, then we should use the weeks and maybe months afterwards to see if there is a better package with which you still achieve and approach your target and with which you cannot have those adverse effects or compensate enough. In addition, the debate on Europe is taking place. For this spring you will have to make a package for that 49%. Maybe you should even show what you should do to get 55%. Then there is the question, which has also been asked by the cabinet: when will we know what Europe is doing? Are there gonna be leading groups? Is the whole of Europe going to be at 49%? Is it going to be around 45%? Is it on the 40%? Then you have to look again at what is wise to do as the Netherlands. Look, if we can achieve a higher percentage than the European average in a manageable way, I shall just mention something, and it also leads to more innovation and a lead for our trade and our economy, then I am in favour of it. You must assess the measures themselves on their merits. We also need to look at what the objectives are in Europe and certainly at affordability. So it's not poured into concrete, but it's not a goal of me to sit as low as possible as I get away with it or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u246	I thank Mr Dijkhoff for the answer. If it is not feasible, affordable and reliable, there is talk of bringing that goal down. That reassures me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u247	I have always thought that you should listen carefully to the group chairman of the largest government party. That's what I've been doing so far. You said earlier that the proposals could make a contribution, but let us not forget that they can make a contribution. Then I thought, "Well, you're already making it very small." Then you said, "I'm waiting for the bank transfers." Then you said, at least what my interview did is that my constituents are calm again. I think there is a difference between your supporters and the citizen in the Netherlands; fortunately it is. Did you mean to reassure the VVD supporters in particular? In doing so, you distanced yourself from the proposals that you were involved in until that night. What exactly was the point of that interview? You make it very small, because you say it can make a contribution. What do you do with the credit transfers when they say it could be done? What do you mean? The purchasing power? You also know that purchasing power calculations are about the non-existent average Dutchman? You have rental houses and your own homes. You have a car or you don't have a car. You live in the Randstad or the countryside. I don't know what you meant by the interview at all, except that you wanted to reassure the VVD. Where do you stand as leader of the largest group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u248	I'm gonna try to streamline this, because the question was pretty broad. I gave an interview because I already agreed to it anyway, and besides that I saw something when I gave it. It is not just about the supporters as in VVD voters, but also about people you speak to, messages sent to you and the tone in the media. The picture was, quite frankly, also when you read the introduction of the design to an agreement, quite a bad one: this is it. All the parties had been on this for a long time. The picture was: if these measures reach 49%, then we are going to implement them. Of that I think: no, you know that only when the politics, the parliament and the parliament have been able to weigh everything. What does it do about climate goals? What does it do for people's burdens? What is the balance between businesses and citizens? I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that you should not let yourself go with a purchasing power picture alone. It may well be that everyone stays the same because half of the Netherlands has to pay more and the other half of the Netherlands improves on it. That's zero on balance and that's why you can say it has no effect. But you're only gonna be in the wrong half. Well, then it's gonna work. The other half are, but you don't hear them complaining when they're getting better. So you're gonna have to look wider than just one picture. That is why it is becoming complicated and after 13 March we cannot really judge concrete measures in a week. It'll take more time before we do. I didn't think I'd let my members interview me for a moment. Then I'll do it in the member magazine. At the time I gave the interview, I really saw a broader unrest, partly about things that were caused by how there was talk about the status of those proposals. I had already tried to say in the media in advance that it was not: what will come next Friday if we manage to come up with something are proposals from the tables. That's an agreement between us. That's what they give to politics. It's being passed on. Then we're gonna decide what we're gonna do and what we're not gonna do. That's what I said before. That image was totally wrong. There were also a lot of other ghost images. I thought it right to explain where we stand in the process, what the status of the piece is and what the status of the parliament is, what people voted for. People didn't choose the people who sat there at those tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u249	Let me ask the question again. A few weeks ago, we had a debate here with the Prime Minister and Minister Wiebes on your statements. That led your colleagues in the coalition, Buma, Segers and Jetten, to violent reactions. Segers and Buma have also clearly presented this to the Prime Minister. You sat there silently. Understandably. The fact that they reacted so violently must mean that the other three have felt that you were taking a lot of distance, that you made it small and that you were indeed working on the VVD constituency? I want to know whether you are actually going to take that back, because otherwise the coalition will continue to burn, and then you just set fire to the climate agreement, as I said before, and you ran away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u250	Mr Van Rooijen says that I must do something, otherwise something will remain that way. If I had the idea that the tent was on fire in the coalition, I think we would have been on a different file last week. So I don't have that feeling. I do feel that this coalition is united on the three main objectives. But of course, it's easier if you only have one. It's easier if you just say, "Everything that hits people's wallet, I don't do it." Or if you say: anything that reaches 49%, I just do or everything that tax companies more or less, I'm fine with it. We are making it more complicated by the fact that we believe that both the climate goals must be met and it must be affordable for ordinary people and there must be a fair balance between citizens and businesses. I'm not in the business of taking things back. I think it is fair for others to respond when I say something in public. It's all in the game. It wasn't the most courteous interview I've given in terms of choice of words either. That people thought something about that, I get that, too. That's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u251	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u252	But I don't feel like there's something on fire and I need to take something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u253	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u254	We're getting elections in a couple of weeks. I believe that you should make it clear to the coalition partners and to all citizens in the Netherlands that you did not mean what you did have as an effect. That's what I want to know from you. The voter wants to know where you stand now. Are you and the other three still part of the agreements and proposals that were there? Or do you say it was tactically very useful to me. By the way, Buma had done that before. Do you think I should do that too, so I'm gonna take a big distance? People want to know where you stand. I don't know, and the room doesn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u255	I'm sorry you don't know. I'll try again to explain, but I don't have the impression that you speak for all those people. I said in the same interview that I do feel committed to. That's what it says neatly, so I don't have the idea that there's extreme confusion about that. The three cases I've just outlined, we're going to have to combine as four coalition parties. There will have to be a package that takes people's wallets into account. That doesn't lead to retarded costs. There must also be a fair balance between citizens and businesses in achieving climate goals. The commitment to those goals is even in the interview itself. You said you should do it sometime. I myself felt that the attempts I put forward for this were clear. If you literally read it back, those things are also there; whether that was with Pauw or in our online movies or in the reaction of that Friday to the piece itself. I note, however, that the interview in the Telegraaf has reached more people than any attempt to do so with the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u256	Brief question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u257	Two brief questions. The first is: does the VVD still support the Paris Agreement and ratification? The second concerns the climate agreement. The Party for Animals doesn't like this either, but we didn't order it. We saw that in such a major problem, you must, politically speaking, weigh all the interests side by side. You have to make sensible choices. You don't write such a thing at tables where vested interests prevail that are at its best. I understand that Mr Dijkhoff says: yes, but yes, we are going over it. But why did he order such a climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u258	The silly answer is, I didn't order that. I'm not a conversationalist at those tables. In the interview I also said that I can imagine that you are looking for support from those parties. But here again I'm going to say that I said this in a number of interviews. I just called people to come to our table to talk about that. If you're looking at how that works out, I don't know if I'd do that again. Well, that's an understatement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u259	Good. Then I'd really like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u260	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u261	...a clear answer to my first question. Does the VVD still support the international agreement with the signature underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u262	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u263	In Paris, it was agreed that we should limit climate change to a maximum of 2°C and actually to 1.5°C.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u264	Yes, I have said before, in the same interview, that I feel committed to making a package to get at least that 49% and then look at it together with our neighbouring countries. I'm still behind all these things. But you do have to do that in the implementation and with more than just a package to achieve the CO reduction targets. I've got demands on that. It might not make it any easier, but it'll make it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u265	No, Mrs. Ouwehand, you've already been. I'm going to see Mr... I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u266	It's a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u267	Well, it's always the same with Mrs. Old Hand. All right, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u268	I think Mr Dijkhoff is about at the end of his term. I would like to ask him when he is going to do something for the normal Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u269	Every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u270	Well, they don't notice very much. You are also constantly talking about this dossier: we must divide the pain and it must be manageable. But it always hurts. You signed the coalition agreement for a 49% reduction in CO by 2030. You signed the Climate Act for 95% in 2050. That hurts. That hurts for almost nothing. The people at home recognize the VVD as the party that has made sure that they have only got less in their pockets in recent years, and now again. The rents go up, the energy bill has risen by €300, the pensions are cut. So I ask you once again, bearing in mind what has happened and whether it is going to cost a lot of money to the left or right, whether it belongs to citizens or businesses. When is the VVD finally gonna do something for the regular guy's wallet? When are you gonna put something back in there instead of always pulling something out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u271	Mr. Wilders stopped his row just when it became fun. Income tax has been reduced. We were able to contain the high migratory flows of a few years ago with good agreements and the closure of borders in the Balkans. The road to progress is when you rule never a straight line. There are detours. You get into a corner where you don't want to be. I know that Mr Wilders prefers to avoid that, that he never disappoints people or achieves anything. That's the difference between our parties. I work for the Dutch every day. Mr Wilders does the same, but a little more verbally; we do a little more by doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u272	You do indeed have a straight line, every time: catching the people. That's that constant, straight line of yours: you pick people up every time. Through the VVD they're only going to pay more for, again, rent, health care, pensions, you name it. You are running a program now. That's what you do with hypocrites. I told you before: Mr Jetten flies halfway around the world, while people are not allowed to eat meatballs from him yet. As I also said in my term: your own VVD'er Nijpels, who is chairman of all these climate tables, just says great fun at Buitenhof last Sunday on television: yes, well, I don't have a heat pump, I fly nicely to my friends in New Zealand and I also stay with gas because I live in a monumental building. Fat, fat bastards, that's it, those VVDs! And what do you do for the common man? What are you doing for the common man? I can get so mad about this! What do you do for the common man, besides knocking money out of his wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u273	What we do is make sure that there is good care in the Netherlands. I wouldn't want to be sick anyway, but I wouldn't say: do it in another country because care is better there. We work hard every day to invest in education, so that our children are well trained. We'll make sure we're safe. We are doing our best to limit migration even further. As I have just said, this has been very successful in 2015. We're working on a good economy, so we can all make a good living. We've been able to lower income tax. Every day we work on a Netherlands in which people have the space to find their happiness and be free. Even if they want to convert as an old PVV, they can do it in this country. We'll take care of it. That goes with falling and getting up, with joy and disappointment. But that's what you do when you take care of something and take responsibility for it. Then you shouldn't blame me for having to rule with parties that are a little more left-wing. I hear that a lot from voters, who say: I'm not going to vote for you anymore because you're making compromises. Well, they'll vote for parties that never rule again and next time I can sit down with five other parties at the table. That's the choice people stand for. For you, it doesn't matter how many seats you have. The story you bring is the same. It is also very consistent and recognizable. For us it does matter, because it allows us to bend the policy more towards our side, towards the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u274	Those are all lies, too. He's just standing here lying. Just lies! A tighter migration policy? Last week we were standing here and, contrary to your agreements in the coalition agreement, you extended the children's pardon. Don't come up with all these lies about a stricter immigration policy. You did the opposite last week! Mr Rutte has let 400,000 non-Western immigrants into the country in recent years, even since you became chairman of the political group. Don't talk to me like that! People don't buy it anymore. You're saying it's load relief. People remember exactly that $1,000 from Prime Minister Rutte. $1,000 would give them to the VVD. They said they'd give them trouble relief. The people at home who are now watching this debate, from young to retired, see in January and February that they are only going to pay more. And with that crazy climate policy of yours, you're talking about sharing costs, but they're gonna pay again. You're gonna get them in the wallet. You're not here for the common man in that respect. You're here to sit on the plush. You're a plush sticker. And if you have to move to the left twenty times, you will, Mr. Dijkhoff...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u275	Stop it! Can you believe this? What's this about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u276	I think I'm still talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u277	I'm just talking through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u278	You are not interested in the Dutch. The point is that you can stay in those seats with your ass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u279	Mr. Wilders, it's really ridiculous for you to say that, of all the people in this room. I came from high school and you were stuck here. And you're still sticking here! You got off for a little while to get away from... I hear you outside the microphone "Look at box-K!" yell, but I'm not in "K." I'm right here. That's a conscious choice. And the VVD is in box K as long as the voter gives us that. And the voter does have choices. The voter can choose between someone who has never done anything... Well, someone who has made concessions for two years and then quickly ran back to the familiar sticky bench he's been in for a long time. But the voter can also opt for someone who indeed disappoints him, and who indeed turned in quite a few points at one point last week. For this, they have received some refunds, such as the abolition of the child's pardon, the abolition of discretionary powers and the removal of refugees for resettlement. Yeah, that's a mixed bag, and the voter has to judge it himself. In the end, we are happy to live in a democracy in which I do not depend on what you think of me, but on what the electorate thinks. And it has a clear choice between never disappointing and always talking, and on the other hand winning and losing, but taking responsibility and getting things done and doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u280	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I should now like to make the proposal to suspend until 8 p.m. Then we'll continue with the other speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u281	We will continue with the debate on the climate agreement. I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u282	Madam President. The social and political debate on the climate continues to warm up. Now that we come to the political decision-making on the draft climate agreement and on Urgenda and now it is coming, it is good to have the debate sober and to base our political choices on our best knowledge and on what is necessary and just. Why are we doing this? Why is the Christian Union committed to an ambitious and just climate agreement? This goes back to our deepest conviction, the belief that we are stewards, that we have been given a land to borrow and that the care for creation has been entrusted to us by God. Even if you don't believe in God, that idea can be very strong: that we have a responsibility for our children and grandchildren. That is an important responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u283	Mr. Baudet, you've had most of the interruptions. No, not the best, as I hear you say; that's what others have to say, I always say. I will allow one question and then we will really move on to the debate, otherwise it will not be fair to the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u284	How many interruptions have I done and how many has Mrs Ouwehand done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u285	No, I'm not going into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u286	Mr Segers, do you know how many atmospheric particles there are now about CO? That's expressed in particles per million, in ppm, isn't it? How much?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u287	Perhaps you could say what you want to ask with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u288	If you want to bring up all sorts of facts here, it is better to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u289	Pretty much. Are we talking 1, 2, 1,000, 10,000 or 100,000 particles per million atmospheric particles? Just about. Do you even know what you're talking about? Do you know about CO, about the atmosphere, about the greenhouse effect? Can you give a very crude indication of how many particles of CO are in the atmosphere per million particles?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u290	I'm not a climate scientist. Nor is Mr Baudet. We must rely on the best knowledge of our best scientists. There is a strong consensus among scientists that there is global warming and climate change, that it is caused by CO emissions from human actions and that, if we do something about it, it has a positive impact on biodiversity and viability. I must rely on the best scientists and the vast consensus of climate scientists; not on a climate manifesto in De Telegraaf, but on 97% of scientists, who agree that it is crucial to act now and that action makes a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u291	No, Mr. Baudet, I'm very sorry, you can't interrupt anymore. Proceed, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u292	If 97% of engineers in, say what, a city like Genoa says a bridge is dangerous, you can say that there is still 3% who think differently, but then it is extremely wise to go to that 97%, not to go over that bridge and replace that bridge. You have to rely on the best knowledge of the experts. Those are worldwide... Madam President, there's someone talking through it while I'm trying to outline a perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u293	Yeah, I didn't mean to. I'd say proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u294	The best scientists worldwide are gathered in the IPCC, in that panel. There's consensus. Mr Baudet knows from a few climate scientists that they think otherwise. If that is a small minority, it is extremely irresponsible to rely on that small minority, where the risks to biodiversity and viability and the risks of drought, too much rain and too little water are so great. We take all these risks, not only for you, but also for your children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u295	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u296	Although Mr Baudet would not believe this, although he would know other scientists or attach great value to a climate manifesto in De Telegraaf, under which the name of no climate scientist was mentioned and which contained information that has been contradicted many times; although he would believe all that and the great consensus does not believe, there are still good reasons to use you for a good climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u297	Do you want to continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u298	I do that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u299	...and no longer respond to Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u300	I refer carefully to him, as he now goes back to his place. Even though you wouldn't believe all this, there are still such good reasons to be committed to clean energy. Why does the Christian Union do that? That's because of stewardship, that's because of the consensus among scientists, but that's also because we want to get rid of our energy dependence on Russia, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the Gulf. We want the gas tap in Groningen turned off, so people in Groningen can live safely. We want coal power plants to shut down so that the air around us is cleaner. Even if you didn't believe the scientists, there are still a lot of other good reasons to commit to a good climate agreement. And what do we bet on then? The aim is well known: to combat climate change, as I said earlier, a clean energy supply and healthier air. Now there is a roadmap to achieve this goal: the concept of a climate agreement. There are three goals, unless Mr. Wilders...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u301	Yes. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u302	I think I owed you an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u303	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u304	I am not talking about Mr Baudet's CO issue, although I think he had a point. I don't care about the 97%. Each time you hear in the debate that 97% of scientists would agree that CO would be bad for the climate and global warming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u305	Too much CO, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u306	But where did the 97% come from? I looked that up. This is from a 2013 research by Cook, a scientist who has read 11,944 climate publications to see what's going on with science. And what does that prove? That, indeed, only 0.3% does not support the theories, but that only 32.6% supports the theories and that the vast majority of 66.7% does not take a stand. The 97% didn't say anything, because there were times when 97% of the scientists thought the earth was flat. But let's not make that joke right now. The study of that 97% is thus in fact 32.6% and not 97%. I would like to make that point, because it seems like everyone agrees. So it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u307	We need to look at what the IPCC brings together scientists. That's really global. If you see that list of scientists and universities, they're serious scientists. Again, I'm not a climate scientist, you're not a climate scientist. We need to look around. What is a reliable, credible scientist who gives us a concern that we should then base our choices on? And why do I do that? Because the risks are so great. We cannot afford to say "I do nothing" or "I find another percentage" or "I find a scientist who has a more friendly message." I must rely on the best knowledge of the best scientists and base our choices on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u308	That's not my point. We are perfectly entitled to differ on the content. I give you your position, you give us my position, I suppose. But what matters now is what you say. You're not the first, are you? I happen to be standing here because you called it weather. It's about people like you saying 97% of scientists think so. That's not true. That's not about opinions. It is simply a factual error, because in fact two thirds said they did not have a position, 0.3% said they did not agree with it and only 32.6% said they agreed with it. If you simply endorse the facts, we can then disagree on the content. Not 97% of scientists agree, but 32.6%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u309	I do not know that research and I do not know whether, for example, the signatories of the climate manifest do count, but I am looking at the IPCC, for example. That is a serious attempt to bring together scientists from all kinds of places in the world, so many different continents, so many different universities. They say that there is a high degree of probability that there is a relationship between human behavior and warming and that this has a major impact on biodiversity, on viability, on what we leave behind for our children and grandchildren. We must not play with that, so we must act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u310	I agree with Mr Segers that action must be taken. Mr Segers just said he didn't want Russian gas? No Arab oil? No coal power stations? No nuclear power stations? No windmills at sea? No windmills on land? I don't know; you can answer it later. No solar panels in the meadow? The question is where we get our energy from, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u311	You make a list that I think is too long. We're in the middle of a transition right now. That means we're going to clean energy step by step. We want people in the built environment to generate their own energy. As it happens, my own brother was here this afternoon visiting a friendly group, and he told us how he builds neighbourhoods that do not cost energy but generate energy. So it's really about locally generated energy, solar energy, heat pumps. With this locally generated energy, cars can be charged. So there is a huge amount of innovation. Sometimes there's some kind of bleakness about this discussion, while there's a lot of innovation. If you see what is happening in Delft and what is happening in Wageningen, you can also see that we can be the frontrunner with that innovation. It's already happening. Yes, we need to use all the means, so that whole palette of new sources of energy, to slowly but surely use that mammoth tanker and ensure that we get rid of Middle East oil and gas from Russia. Those are the first sources I mention. I'm thinking something else about wind power and solar energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u312	As far as I am concerned, it is clear that we need to get rid of these fossil fuels at some point, so we can also agree on that very quickly. The transition that Mr Segers' party, also as a coalition party, is looking for, has not happened from one moment to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u313	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u314	It'll take a while. And that, of course, also requires a cost. I asked your coalition colleagues today: where are we going to land that cost? Does that end up with the citizens? Or is it about fifty-fifty between citizens and businesses? Or are we going to tax companies more? Unlike your coalition colleagues, are you so brave to express an ambition towards the taxableness of companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u315	I have heard Mr Dijkhoff say, for example, that we are looking again at the 50%-50% tax burden on the ODE and that it is obvious that citizens should be more careful. Then you can't say, guys, we're gonna stick this percentage on it now. But we're gonna take a look at it. My next point is a brief one in reply to your question. What are we heading for? That's the 49%. But what are the benchmarks? It is true that this is a question of what the costs are for citizens. Is it affordable? Is there sufficient carrying capacity? The concept of'support area' is a bit more fluid, but'support power' is more powerful, and that is what matters. And do companies pay a fair share? These are the elements that lead the assessment, when the transfer of the PBL and the CPB comes back. Then we'll have to make our choice. But then it's about affordability for the citizen. Let me give you one example of how we think about it. This also affects the discussion that GroenLinks has already had a few times and which it has referred to again, namely the discussion on increasing energy taxation. If you make gas more expensive and compensate through the energy tax, citizens can make money very quickly if they go into isolation. If they are going to take steps, we must enable them to do so, but then they can save money; then they can make money. Yes, we are submitting proposals. We're asking for it to be passed on. That's being passed on now. Why? Because we want citizens to be able to pay for it, that they can carry it, that we come closer step by step and that the mammoth tanker is going to run slowly but surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u316	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u317	At least I recognize the picture that when people can do something about their environment, whether it's their own environment or the climate in the broad sense, when they have the possibility of an energy transition and when it's not going to cost too much, they're also willing to do it. I have also been able to visit projects in the north of the country, where energy-neutral buildings and even energy-neutral neighbourhoods were created. I loved to see that. It takes time, of course. I hear Mr Segers mention a wish list which, as far as I am concerned, is unlike what we actually started with. So in the meantime we probably still need that Russian gas, we need that oil from Saudi Arabia or Qatar and we need those coal plants, although I am not in favour of that either; let us be clear about that. But I find it very easy to say now: we don't want Russian gas, we don't want oil, we don't want this and we don't want it, but we do want to shower for more than five minutes a day, we all want to go to work by car or just travel, we do want to spend several times on vacation by plane, preferably overseas. If we take that kind of thing together, it's a limp with the ambitions you express.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u318	This is too easy for me. I didn't come in here for a moment, express a few pious wishes and say to the cabinet: arrange it. We are in a transition in which the climate tables, where people are willingly pushed, have generated ideas and put them on the table. We went into that cockpit and we went through the biggest bottlenecks. It's in the planning offices now, and it's being passed on. Now we're all working in an engine room to fix the place and make sure that mammoth tanker slowly but surely shifts its degrees, that we're heading for a different course and that we're going to clean up our own energy. That's a huge operation. I want us to take that one step at a time, and now we're really setting the course. I hope citizens will notice that they can see that step by step, that they can wear that, that we can take away all doom images and ghost images a little bit and that we are heading for that clean energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u319	The final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u320	I would like to express the hope that Mr Segers' mammoth tanker will be energy neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u321	Yeah, I've got that hope, too. Solar energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u322	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u323	Following on from Mr Kuzu's questions, I have a question for the cabinet. It's about the citizen's perspective. It is about affordability for the citizen. But it is the same citizen who has a head full of questions, especially when he looks at a debate like this, especially when he sees a certain polarisation in the discussion following the Telegraph interview and the political discussions. This citizen has incredibly many questions: what can I do about making my home more sustainable, what will it cost? Would it not be advisable, I would ask the cabinet, as there is now a local WMO window, to have an energy window, a physical place where the citizen can knock and say: help me, there are so many plans coming to me now, there are so many ideas coming to me now; give me direction, give me the perspective to take the steps I have to take now. An even bigger question is about the responsibility that both this minister and the Prime Minister feel to take that citizen. Yes, we can have a political debate. Yes, we can fight a little rubbert over the course and over a climate agreement. Ultimately, it comes down to the citizen's perspective and it comes down to that citizen knowing that we are doing this at a calm and decent pace, that we are doing this in a social and just way. Everyone's asking for that, too. This also calls for the power of persuasion of the cabinet. It also requires the persuasiveness of these men in trade-K. It is also a warm appeal on my part to use this power of persuasion. All the way to the end: this requires something from all of us. I brought this up in the little debate with Mr Klaver. This calls for politics with a large P, not a contradiction between coalition and opposition, who has which delegation to this debate and whether there are differences between different coalition parties. This calls for a consensus, a stance and a commitment that goes beyond party boundaries and also goes beyond cabinet periods. This is about the coming decades. I hope that we will be able to do this together with that spirit and that we will move towards that clean energy, cleaner air, energy independence and an earth, a creation that we can pass on with good decency to our children and grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u324	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u325	Thank you, Mr President. It is of the utmost importance that we do our best to pass this planet on liveable and clean. It is also of the utmost importance not to linger over it. It could be fun, too. It'd be nice if there's cleaner air that gets inhaled. It would be nice if our industry were to produce cleaner products. I think we can do that, too. I think that can be done on the condition that we do it in a realistic and fair way. That is what we are also called political: realistic and honest in the measures themselves, but also in the way we talk about them. If we do that, we can do it responsibly with the right choices for everyone. Then we need leadership. I think Segers just mentioned that, too. We need leadership in the way we talk about it. Honestly, it doesn't help if the hyperboles are blazing through the air: "greenest cabinet ever," "historical" and "largest renovation since the war." If you look at the site of D66, the balloons splash at you. You get $6,000 for an electric car. It can't be on. But what you've done so far is meetings. What also doesn't help is if the coalition parties, who negotiate such a climate agreement themselves, occasionally put on a yellow shirt, like some kind of pyromaniac who are going to warn that there could be a fire. People won't even know what's going on. Let's look at what's in there. There are good proposals in the package. One example: money for corporations to isolate rentals, so that people get a lower bill. I think that's a good idea. It's a good idea. There are also some very strange proposals. Mr Jetten gave an example of the fact that the ordinary citizen is really being taken into account that there will be €6,000 subsidy for an electric car. There really is a very small number of people who are going to take advantage of that. I don't think that's what we're talking about right now, so that's counterproductive. Mr. Chairman. We have also seen the cabinet skipper with its own role. Consensus is emerging that if you want to do it in a responsible and fair way, the polluter will have to pay. There is an instrument for this that is used in more than 30 countries, and that is called the CO levy. That means you're making companies pay for the damage they do with their emissions and that you're partly helping them do it again by giving money back. That's not new. It was when the climate tables started working. In September, the Planning Office for the Environment also told the Cabinet "what you are thinking of is not going to work; you have to introduce such a CO levy" and yet it has not been given. So there's a taboo. Klaas Dijkhoff just said it's reminiscent of the dividend tax. And indeed, there seems to be a lobby to do everything, except for what is very logical and what is necessary for the support. Ask the cabinet. Can we now agree that if the CO tax comes out of the calculations better than the strange plan of the cabinet with fines afterwards, we are going to introduce it? Question two. Is the cabinet prepared to bring forward the calculations that are expected, for example on mobility, so that you can see alternatives there too? Question three. What has the cabinet done so far to ensure a level playing field for the lobby in Europe? To what extent is the Prime Minister, who we know of CNN as a advocate of climate action, also active within the Chambers? Finally, Mr President. I am very pleased that the group chairmen have come because I do not think it is a face to the voters, the citizens of this country, if you scare them to death as coalition parties, conclude an agreement and then sit under your desk. I heard something quite different today. I hear the taboos are gone. So let us now establish this with each other, so that we can have a realistic and fair climate policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u326	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u327	Madam President. In 2006, American former vice president Al Gore released an impressive film, An Inconvenient Truth. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for his fight against global warming. But more than ten years later he is not president of the United States, but Donald Trump, a climate skeptic who calls coal fire a spearhead. The debate on climate is polarized. At one extreme, you have the believers: the goal has to be achieved. It doesn't matter how... and compromises are taboo. But on the other side are the deniers. They say that there is nothing wrong or that man cannot do anything about it. In between, the population is mainly concerned with questions. Many people feel morally responsible and want to pass the world on to their children in a proper way, but at the same time there are so many other daily concerns. For the CDA, the core is the need to combat climate change. The Netherlands must contribute to the goals of Paris. We must do this in a way that is feasible, affordable and feasible. That is why we agreed in the coalition agreement to build Europe together with a leading group of neighbouring countries. Our starting point is a 49% reduction in CO2. The wish is 55%, the highest goal in Europe. If not all countries are involved, then we will have to look at the situation. That is why I would like to put the following question to you: I am aware that I am one of the first in this debate to put questions to the cabinet at all. Which neighbouring countries have now given a concrete commitment to support that 49% or higher? What's the status? A second question concerns the transfer by the PBL. It is important to take account of the levels of CO reduction in neighbouring countries. Is it assumed that the neighbouring countries are also doing 49? Or is the pass-through assuming that neighbouring countries are doing lower? The first is most logical because the Netherlands wants that with the leading group, but I am also convinced that this makes the efforts here much easier. Mr. Chairman. Last summer I warned against threatening polarisation in the climate debate. I did that after from the climate tables it sounded like people had to take an extra mortgage to buy a heat pump or that the gas price would have to go up significantly to make it more sustainable. That threatened to stir up the unrest. What threatened was that, instead of looking at what is practical in practice, too much was sent to models, figures and paper targets. That's a risk we're running into anyway. In recent years, however, the car industry has seen where this can lead: billions of subsidies for barely any climate gains. Answers to questions from my colleague Pieter Omtzigt, who in this case has been able to say that we even understand the answers, show that the number of euros we invest per tonne of CO in the automotive sector is extremely high: €1,700 for one tonne of CO reduction in that sector. But on the European market, it costs €25 to take out a tonne of CO. That's not efficient. That's not cost-effective. This must not happen again. Does the Minister agree with me? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, polarization has also penetrated the tables themselves. The environmental movements were off the table even before an agreement was reached. They require a national CO levy. This is still being discussed, but I would like to point out the following. Recently, I was at a construction conference. Many small construction companies, SMEs, fear this levy, not because it is imposed on them, but because they know that concrete, steel and cement will all be more expensive if there is such a charge. Of course, this is passed on; the margins are not that large in this sector. So irrevocably, building becomes more expensive. And who pays the bill? Citizens and SMEs. That is why we must be so careful with a CO levy. Mr President, I will conclude. In a polarized climate, nothing can be achieved. I call on the believers on the left but also the deniers on the right to stop the "no" and go to a "yes." That yes got a start at the climate tables. We're all gonna talk about that. I am convinced that, if we look at this with an open mind, we will be able to reach an ambitious and feasible agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u328	Mr President, personal fact!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u329	Personal fact of Mr Baudet. A personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u330	No, you can't. I mean, I'm fine with it. You can allow anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u331	I'm definitely not a denier. I believe there's a climate, so a climate denier...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u332	I have not spoken to anyone in person, Madam President!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u333	No, then that's not a personal fact, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u334	Well, Mr. Buma certainly meant my...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u335	But he didn't mention your name. Only then will it be a personal fact, Mr. Baudet. I'm sorry. I'm going to see Mrs. Ouwehand. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u336	I had also asked questions to the cabinet, but I also have a question to Mr Buma. I have a bit of the impression that the CDA uses the argument of acceptance somewhat selectively. I was wondering if Mr Buma could explain when he thinks support is important and not important. I remember the European Constitution. How much support was there for that? I remember the association agreement with Ukraine. How much support was there for that? And how much support was there for the VAT increase on fruit and vegetables? All this has been supported by the CDA despite massive resistance in society, so I don't quite understand when the CDA finds support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u337	I think I remember saying here in this House about the Ukraine Treaty that I felt that, after the 'no' referendum, there should also be a 'no' in the implementation. But apart from that, this is about something very serious and something very big. I am convinced that this is why I started with Gore and with Trump, that if we do not take society and if we do not take steps that people can handle in their daily lives, it may eventually end with a 'no'. We see that in many countries around us. Think of Poland, Italy and America. My point is that, with this coalition's approach to the cabinet, we could achieve a hundred times more than your approach, with which you will, in practice, put a lot of people in harm's way against you. I therefore call on you not to stand on the sidelines and call for nothing to be done, but to participate in an alliance that can actually put the Paris agreement into practice in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u338	There was another article in De Telegraaf this morning. This time it was an opinion article of twelve CDA list leaders for the Provincial States. When I read the article and also when I heard Sander de Rouwe on the radio this morning, I had the impression that this was another kind of Dijkhoff variant in De Telegraaf. My question is: was this also intended to reassure the CDA electoral campaigners? And would you accept the outstretched hand of 50PLUS to remove the threatening reductions on pensions? Then we'll be one step closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u339	The first question really needs to be answered by Sander de Rouwe. I didn't hear him on the radio, but he can explain what he meant. I'm not gonna do that for him. For your second question, I would like to refer to the colleague I mentioned earlier, who is also a spokesperson for pensions. You have had debates about this. I think that we are going to have more debates on this, and I think that they should also be held on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u340	I wasn't just talking about Sander the Rouwe, who was on the radio. I was talking about the 12 CDA list leaders for the provincial elections on 20 March. I will do this questioningly and not suggestively. My question was: does this also have a Dijkhoff content, to reassure the CDA's supporters, at least until 20 March? In addition, if you take the discounts off the table, you'll make those people more comfortable with a very good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u341	I understand your question, except for the part "this is not meant to be suggestive." That is the only part of your question that I do not understand, because this is more suggestion than ask. Twelve CDA listers raise this point because they see that there are major questions about implementation in their province. They also say they want to achieve the goal. I can only share what they say: if we want it to be a success in practice, we must do it with society itself. The fact that this is not yet a matter of course is evident from the great divisions that exist in this Chamber alone between 'nothing' and 'everything'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u342	I have had debates with Mr Buma on the energy bill and the energy discount that brought this cabinet down. In all these debates, Mr Buma expressed his support for this reduction. He said: I do not want income policy to be based on energy taxation. My question to Mr Buma is whether, after all the commotion that has arisen about this and now we see how these accounts are running, it is now possible for him not to reduce that energy discount but to increase it in the years to come, in order to keep it affordable for citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u343	Let me start with that first point. The change that this coalition has made is precisely to stop income tax through the account. That's why we gave it back in income tax. That's where the purchasing power story is; that's the choice we made. I am open to a great deal, as are my colleagues. My biggest objection was this summer, and still is, that from the climate table the story went that if you raise the gas bill enough, one will automatically use electricity. I still find that a dubious argument, because a lot of Dutch people live in a rental house and therefore have no choice at all. So I have always said: opt for other steering elements. But I'm saying, right now, it's all being calculated. With all the questions that are now being asked from the Chamber, I am going to say: let's wait and see what they are going to be passed on, what the effects of all these things are, what measures are good and where we want them to be changed as widely as possible. Then we'll just take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u344	I see there's room to talk about this energy discount and the way we use it. That's what we need to do at the same time. I had another question. It also has to do with the article that was in the paper this morning. It seems that the CDA is moving away from the 49% target. It is outlined that if we come down in Europe, the Netherlands will not have to work for that 49% either. Is the impression I've got?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u345	I must use my own words, because you must ask them the impression of others. We have reached a government agreement of 49%. In fact, the cabinet is asked to try to make a leading group of 55%. I think we should keep an eye on this. If other countries are going to do the same, we absolutely need to participate. If they don't come, the cabinet will have to make it through. Next, we need to look at whether we should be the only other figures in the Netherlands or whether we should try to get Europe or a leading group as high as possible. There is a very precise coalition agreement. I can be addressed to that 49% target. I appeal to the Cabinet for the purpose of getting countries involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u346	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u347	I tried to read the coalition agreement again today. I can see that we are trying to form a leading group on that 55%. If that works, we're gonna take that step. But that 49% is not conditional. That's 49%. I have not read that this depends on what is happening in Europe. So I ask the leader of the CDA: is that 49% still the hard target, which was also agreed in the coalition agreement and then also in the climate law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u348	I've been negotiating that coalition agreement for quite some time. It's a bite of my life, I might add. We've written down exactly what I'm saying now. And so it's less difficult than you think. We want to get 49%. In fact, there's a 55% target. But we have also said that there is no point in saying that if we reduce CO emissions here, it will go up with the same thing in neighbouring countries. Or if we get the industry out of here, then it comes back to the neighbouring countries. That is why it says that if neighbouring countries that are not going to do 49%, we should indeed see if we are going to do much more in the Netherlands, knowing that CO emissions are not going to be reduced worldwide, or that we are going to see if we can get it up with countries or not. I think it's the most rational appointment you can make. I'd almost like to return the following. If you really want to do something different in the Netherlands than lead the rest of the world, get other countries to move on, but not the crazy Henkie of Europe's... then you have to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u349	Finally, really, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u350	We're way behind in Europe, so we're still in the middle of something. My question concerns the explanation of how hard that 49% is. I hear Mr Buma say that we agreed to this, but if it turns out that other countries in Europe are going to be lower, that figure could also be lower for the Netherlands. That is not how I have understood the arrangements with the cabinet so far. That is not how I believe we discussed this in the Climate Act. You've got to get that 49%. And yes, you have to be sensible. Because you can do that smartly and you can do that very stupidly, so there can also be a leak abroad. That's what we're trying to prevent. However, I hope that 49% will stand and be tough and that we will try to go to 55% together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u351	What I am saying now is exactly the question that we have often asked the cabinet and to which the cabinet gave the answer I am now giving. So it's not that hard. You say the 49% is hard. In fact, we want 55%. I mean, what are we talking about? The only thing is that when we are the only country in Europe, I think it is wise to see if this is going to work. I may be a little more involved in this than you are, but I'm just really sorry if people who have a regular job in a company in the Netherlands lose that job when they come back to Belgium with more CO emissions. That's just a real danger. We can't just go around that. If you say that it is, I believe that the government is currently looking at the effects of various measures, so let us wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u352	Mr President, I am going to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u353	... addressed. Then you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u354	Sure, thank you. Again, my party has been working on climate policy for 30 years. We're green left. That means you have to think about redistribution: how does it stay affordable for people? In all our plans, you can see that there's a backlock to that industry to make sure these companies stay here. We have now seen a lot of calculations, including from De Nederlandsche Bank, but also from the CPB and all kinds of other research offices, which show that the leaking effect abroad is limited. So before Mr Buma makes this kind of accusation, I would say: read our election program first, read all those reports, see our track record of the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u355	You've made your point, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u356	And then you really come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u357	The tricky thing about the debate here now, but rather, is that facts fly over and over again. In that report, the Netherlands Bank indicates that the effects are very large in the sectors in which the steel sector is concerned and a few others. This concerns those companies which have a situation in which the price, the foreign owners and the world market are decisive. Yeah, it's one push of a button and they're gone. I don't like it. I would also like us to be able to lift until we have a road, but I just warn that this will not end up being something where we can say as a politician: Dutch, don't be afraid; the big companies pay. We must also acknowledge that it will be passed on to the Dutch. That's what I want to stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u358	Following on from what Mr Klaver said: I also read this morning, of course, the piece by the twelve CDA's, the twelve disciples, who actually say: the rest are drammers; it has to be fairer. But they should, of course, direct that to you, Mr. Buma, because you're in the coalition. You seem to forget that sometimes, but you're in control of it. Hence my question: is it now possible for you to agree that if the plan of bureaucratic fines does not work as well as the CO levy, then we can do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u359	Two things about that. About the twelve, which I would just like to call list-toppers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u360	I'm just trying to get inside of you a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u361	Yeah, that's why. You're saying they should talk to me. I have now understood that they are doing so, because this will also be a resolution at our conference. I would like to add that if you become a member, you will be welcome and may vote. You're always welcome, but you're welcome to attend. That's one. The CO charge will be passed on to you. I think that's the royal way. I hope that will be somewhat timely, because we need to make choices at some point. But let me be clear: what I object to is making the carbon tax an icon, as if it were paying the companies and not affecting citizens. I'll say, "I want to know the facts first." Your research will help with that. The cabinet is also investigating. Let me be clear: then it is completely open to me. Not the measures, the means, are decisive; the purpose and the effects are decisive. And the crazy thing is that the coalition is being addressed to it all the time by opposition parties who already know. If you were as open as the coalition, where I think four people are saying the same thing, we'd get a lot further. Otherwise, we will become a little bit the English Parliament, which most of us know what it is against, but then is for nothing. It would be much better if we had a broad majority in the Chamber with the starting point of these climate tables, a passing-through and together looking at the effects, so that we could go to the Dutch citizen with a climate policy that is effective, that cuts wood and that is bearable for the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u362	Thank you for inviting me to that CDA conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u363	It's addressed to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u364	It's even nicer. Maybe we can all...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u365	I see you're a member's recruiter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u366	I find it a little sad that the only way to influence you is to go to such a conference, with a yellow note in case you're against something not happening. I've studied that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u367	But now you come back to a past...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u368	I shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u369	If you still want to chew that, you should. But I think "for" will be "for" because otherwise I don't get it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u370	Okay. One innovation after another. You have WhatsApp, you can just be for something... Still, I'm gonna put it off for a little while. My question is serious. You say quite piously here: if you were as open as we are, we would be able to agree on our own. That's not what's happening at all. What I have just heard from you echoes very much the climate blackmail we hear from Hans de Boer: if you come up with such a tax, it will cost 50,000 jobs! You're even saying to Jesse Klaver: I'm much more concerned about these jobs than you are. That's not exactly the open attitude. What I actually hear you say is that I was just reminded by Dijkhoff, who is also upsetting himself: is such a CO levy not an unacceptable risk to the structure of the Dutch economy? You're scaring us a little bit again. It's not like we already know. It is something that 71 economists in the Netherlands advocate and which is advocated worldwide. All I ask of you is the agreement: if that CO tax comes out better than the post-fine plan, then we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u371	One of the twelve signatories is the deputy of the CDA in Zeeland, Jo-Annes de Bat. He invited me to the Total and Lukoil refinery in Vlissingen. 600 people work there. It is one of the largest companies in Zeeland, an area that has to fight for its employment. There they say: I want to keep those 600 jobs here. And it's very simple: there's enough capacity for refineries all over Europe. The button's about to close. Why? Because the owners are abroad. The risk is there. Then you can rightly say: is it a fact? No, it's not a fact, but I do say this: before we decide, we need to know what the effects are. So I think that Mr Klaver, as well as you, is too easy to ignore what might happen. I feel responsible for this, I am sure, no more than the others, but that is my responsibility. Am I gonna say no? Then I'll turn around a little bit what Mr. Klaver says. He's already saying it has to be done. I say, no, we don't have to; first we need to know if it's possible. If there are other better means, which do not have employment effects, then that is all the better. Doesn't this have employment effects? Isn't it passed on? I just mentioned the building of houses. Doesn't it have any effects? Sure! Measures that are good, that work and that do not involve costs? Let's do it. But I think it's a risk that it's just too easy. One more thing, Mr. Chairman, and then I'll finish. We all know we're dealing with the problem here. It's not about opinions or anything. We are really going to take measures that have great effects and that we really need to know together that the population can carry them for 10, 20 years. That's what we need to worry about together. So it's got to be good what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u372	Finally. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u373	On that last point, we simply agree. It's profound and you have to do it in a sensible way. In our proposal, part of the revenue from the levy goes back through a fund to the companies that innovate. That is precisely what is aimed at maintaining employment. I think we agree on that. I do not think it is right for the discussion to continue pretending that you are the only one who cares about employment. I come back to the question I asked you. If climate policy is to be a success, it must be fair and realistic. You should at least give this a position equivalent to that of a plan that we are told will save at least the same amount of CO, so it also has at least the same effect on that refinery. Then we go to Zeeland together if necessary to say: we're going to green here, we're going to keep the jobs and we're going to do it in a fair way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u374	It is good that this interruption ends with statements by Mr Asscher which I could also make. I would ask him to look in the same open way at the plan that has come out of the tables for a conditional tax, which makes it possible for companies to help without that tax being introduced and to impose a levy only if those companies fail to achieve the objective. But I think that's another option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u375	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u376	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u377	No, I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u378	I think it is another option, which should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u379	No, Mr. Clover. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u380	A point of order!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u381	A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u382	I've committed three interruptions. Three. That's what's agreed. There really are three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u383	We'll keep track of it all. What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u384	There are colleagues who have spoken much more often. I have a serious substantive question for Mr Buma, a question that is relevant to this debate. We finally have a climate debate together. The whole of the Netherlands waited until we had this debate. I have one question I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u385	Well, suppose it is, or else it's gonna take forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u387	I stood here behind the chair thinking that I was the only one who could interrupt myself, because I still had questions about it. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u388	Mr Buma just made a statement. He was just talking about the fine system whereby companies are still subject to a very high fine if they don't make it. But if that meant that these companies would have to leave the country, what would Mr Buma's answer be? Does that mean he's still for the fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u389	This is another trick. My only point is that we are currently looking at the different options. Mr Asscher asked me to look at the system he is currently passing through. Then I say yes. Then I say to Mr Asscher: look at the system that is currently coming from those tables. Nor did Mr Asscher say: no. Well, I don't think this needed a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u390	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u391	Mr. Chairman. This morning I stepped out of a warm bed in a cold house and walked barefoot over a cold floor to prepare breakfast for our family. Mr Klaver just indicated that he often feels guilty, but I also felt guilty this morning when I left my wife and children in a cold house. But we're doing it for something: for the climate. There's a heat pump coming into the house. This is not only good for less CO, but hopefully also for our energy bill. Mr. Chairman. We've been hearing a lot about drammers and dreamers over the past few weeks, but I'd like to lance here for doers. The SGP advocates action, just practical action. We just have to work together. We just have to do it, for our creation, for our living environment, for innovation, but also for a stop to the expensive imports of fossil fuels. We can continue to argue and argue about increasing and achieving goals and percentages, but this will lose your support in society. And I think we really need that support. Because what good are ambitions that are beautiful on paper, but can't be achieved in practice? 80,000 homes a year? Extra sustainable urban heat? I know I'm not getting the answer tonight, because that's something that needs to come out of those calculations, but we're very curious if that's real. We say: ensure feasibility, affordability and, above all, security of supply. We also say: be a little creative. Because why should shops be open seven days a week with all associated transport movements and energy consumption? Why don't we just opt for shop closure on one of these days? You'll get a day's rest and we'll save you a megaton of CO. Mr. Chairman. The SGP wants to pass on the cost of the climate agreement. What does it mean to the common man? What does it mean for SMEs? The building table claims that the energy bill isn't going to go up with us, but how does the storage on the energy bill work out for the next ten, twenty years? What does the tax increase mean if you don't even have money to buy an electric car like that? And who's the final cost of all these extra tubes, cables and energy officials? That's also a question I'm asking the cabinet. I am very curious to see whether we will also see all these indirect costs in this wide pass-through on 13 March. Then we have the honest story and the honest debate. Then we can see whether that 49% is actually feasible. Mr. Chairman. I cannot help arguing once again for a substantial increase in the tax on flights. Those hundreds of millions can be invested in making that much-needed energy transition feasible and affordable. I think that is far better than an additional national CO levy where, if we are not careful, we are bullying our companies away. Mr. Chairman. My message is really very simple. If you did, let's stop pushing. If you did it, stop dreaming; if you're on bed, I'll let you. Let's just do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u392	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u393	Madam President. Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Buma, Mr Jetten. We heard them today saying that we should not cause panic, that we should look at the facts soberly and that we should not scare people. I agree. So let's just take a very quiet look at the kind of measures we have to take to achieve the targets of about 49% reduction in 10 years' time and 95% reduction in our CO emissions in 30 years' time. VVD, GroenLinks, CDA, D66, PvdA, ChristenUnion, SP and 50PLUS want us to do that. That's the climate bill. They took it. They voted for it. Dijkhoff was just being a little nonchalant, like, "Yes, it's not that big a deal. We're gonna check it out. We'll see what it's gonna cost. If it gets a little too expensive, we don't do it. It's 30 years from now. Let's stay calm." That was kind of the impression he made. That was pretty much the point. However, it is very important to consider what is just in that law and what is just in it, namely achieving 95% CO reduction. If you want it, all houses will eventually have to get rid of the gas, as the climate agreement states. If you just look soberly at the facts, this means that for an average house, your entire sleeve wall needs to be opened and re-insulated. You need to replace your entire roof. We need to get your floors out. People need to install an entirely new heat installation including heat pump on their homes. They have to put underfloor heating in their entire house because otherwise that heat pump will not work. They need to buy completely isolated doors. Bedrooms must be equipped with convector radiators. Kitchens need to be converted. And so on. This certainly amounts to at least €50,000 to €80,000 per house. If you add this up for all households in the Netherlands, you'll get at least 235 billion, as the Economic Institute for Construction has just predicated. These are not panic stories, again, this is simply the real consequence of the targets they have adopted in the Climate Act. In order to achieve 100% renewable energy, that is also stated in the Climate Act, you have to fill the entire Dutch landscape with windmills: windmills everywhere, a landscape that will only be interrupted by fields with solar panels. Then Dijkhoff can say again that we are creating panic, but you literally need more land than there is land in the Netherlands to generate renewable energy everywhere in the Netherlands. You have to occupy about a quarter of Germany with solar panels and windmills to generate enough energy for the Netherlands. The same applies to the consequences of the subsidies that have to go there: about 140 billion can be added to that. Then another 200 billion to make all these companies energy neutral. And then of course you get the increased costs on petrol, on living and all the other costs that you can just add to it. This means companies go bankrupt or they leave the Netherlands. Poverty will therefore descend on the Netherlands. This is an inevitable, completely realistic and sober consequence of the objectives set out in the Climate Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u394	Mr Baudet says: let us have a quiet debate on the facts. Mr Baudet just mentioned all kinds of interventions that you should do in your house. I can reassure the people at home: in many homes, all the measures mentioned by Mr Baudet are not even necessary. The calculation that Mr Baudet is currently making is likely to add up to 1,000 billion in the near future. That is an amount he often mentions in debates. And then we often mix up investments and costs a little bit. My question to Mr Baudet is as follows. The cabinet has a draft climate agreement passed on. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, like the Labour Party, is calling for alternatives to be passed on. Is the Forum for Democracy prepared to send the Forum's list, which would add up to 1,000 billion, to the two planning agencies for independent testing? In this way, in March or April, when we discuss the climate agreement here, we can assess whether the calculation of the Forum for Democracy is actually correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u395	I'm just trying to get the question straight. So you would like us to present the calculation of the Economic Institute for Construction, for example, which is not ours, but the Economic Institute for Construction, to the Planning Office for the Environment. Is that what you'd like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u396	Mr Baudet often mentions a lot of measures. He then adds up to 1,000 billion and says that all this does not fit in the Netherlands. I would like to see that list of measures taken by Mr Baudet, which adds up to the 1,000 billion, written once. My question would then be whether he is prepared to submit it to the planning agencies so that they can independently assess whether Mr Baudet's reasoning line is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u397	That sounds like a good plan. I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u398	I love to hear that. Then, in addition to the climate agreement and in addition to a number of alternative opposition parties' plans, we can also assess the Forum's 1,000 billion in March or April. By the way, that 1,000 billion is an interesting amount. Does Mr Baudet know how much we should spend as a country until 2050 on imports of oil, gas and coal from largely wrong regimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u399	That is an unanswered question, because it is about speculative costs in the future. It's impossible to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u400	First of all, let us mark that we are not going to speculate about future costs anymore. But if we were to continue on the current footing, so the current imports of oil, gas and coal from other countries, including from wrong regimes, that would be until 2050 an edition of the Dutch people's pay attention! EUR 1,000 billion. If you just go through the current amount we spend on fossil industry every year until 2050, it'll add up to 1,000 billion euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u401	That's not true. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u402	Does Mr Baudet agree with me that instead of giving 1,000 billion to wrong regimes, we should choose to invest a much smaller amount in greening the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u403	No, because a lot of that... I do not know exactly how you got this amount, but you will probably say: this is the reference scenario for PBL of 50 billion a year. Is that how you got this amount, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u404	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u405	Well, the reference scenario of the PBL is absolutely not the amount we pay for the import of oil. You really don't know anything about it if you think it is. The reference scenario of 50 billion is what, according to the PBL, we spend a total of every year on our entire energy supply. That includes the energy agreement, which already costs 100 billion, 150 billion, and that includes all that sustainability. It is therefore absolutely wrong and not based at all on anything to equate that number, which already contains a great deal of sustainability, with what we would spend for the import of oil. That's really just bullshit. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u406	Here, too, costs and investments are mixed up. You do a one-time investment in sustainability, or you spend huge amounts of money on imports of fossil energy every year. I hope that Mr Baudet will look again at the figures. I am very pleased that we are also getting back the list of Forum for Democracy from the planning agencies and that we can take that into account in the assessment of the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u407	There's a lot to say about it, but one more thing. It is said: from the cost of insulation you deduct the heating costs that you would no longer have to pay. There is a huge error in the calculation, because the current total energy costs are taken into account, but there is a great deal of energy taxation. You have to look at the price of energy itself, without taxes, because that tax revenue will get the government less and lose it. So they count themselves rich by an accounting trick. It's very important not to fall for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u408	Will you finish up, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u409	Yes. At least the response to the interruption has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u410	No, it doesn't count. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u411	So I don't think we're the ones causing panic. We look very soberly at what these costs are: what kind of costs do you make if you want to do all this? The things I mentioned are a start, a first step, the first cost you have to make anyway. Anyone can make that math. Once again, I do not think we are creating the panic, but the opposite. People, like all those children who are now on strike, are being talked about that in ten years time the world will become uninhabitable. None of that is true at all. If you look sober, there is much less going on than people want to believe. The thing that's spelled us on the sleeve right now, the 1,000 billion, because that's what it's about, is what you see when you look sober. I'm glad Mr Wiebes is laughing at me like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u412	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This was the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u413	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to respond here. I would like to make a few general introductory remarks myself and then answer two questions. One question concerns the state of play with regard to activities in Europe and in the world in order to maintain ambition. The second question concerns the energy bill. After that, Mr Wiebes will answer a few more questions, but frankly very few questions have been asked to us. So it's not too bad on our part. That is not a guarantee that it will take a short time, because that is what you are talking about, but it will not take a very long time for us, because few questions have been asked. Maybe it's just the next thing I'm gonna say to you. I'm just trying to grab the amalgamation of a lot of first-term contributions. What I hope, and secretly expect, is this. If you try to look through your eye hairs at the whole political debate, you will see that in April/May we may be able to reach a consensus on how to achieve 49% CO emission reduction. And how do we do that in such a way that people can experience it financially, that people get it, and that people get the perspective of action and the tools to shape it in their personal lives? So I'm thinking of the 49%, of the perspective of the people and of the companies. We also need to know with each other that we are doing it fairly and that these companies are being treated in a proper manner in the balance with the citizens. So we need to have it neatly divided between citizens and businesses. And there should be no leakage of CO emissions to other countries. If we do this with each other, apart from the important achievement of the climate objectives and the Dutch contribution to them, in a good connection with the European goals.I believe that this will also lead to a wake-up call for innovation and trade. The Netherlands is a country of merchants and innovative companies. The Netherlands can therefore also be at the forefront of this. I have often outlined that it is my hope that we will not only meet the climate objectives, but that, in addition to our strong water and food niches, we will build a third large pillar under the international competitiveness of our economy, namely: how does the world deal with climate change? And yes, there's time for that, too. So if we have had these intense discussions over the next two/three months, and we have drawn those conclusions, then you also know that you have made agreements on this for the next eleven years, until 2030, but in fact they are also looking at the next 31 years, until 2050. And what would it be nice if that was with a support platform that could possibly go over the hundred seats in this Chamber; if you listen to this discussion through your eye hairs, it could just happen. So you have been able to complete the political decision-making process on a transition that is going to take eleven years and, in total, 31 years, which should take one step at a time, and in which we can offer people and businesses, and our entire society, a perspective on how to do that. That is the objective of the cabinet in shaping the decision-making process in the coming months on the energy transition and on achieving the Paris climate objectives. In addition, we are looking for broad support. And again, and I thought that was the great thing about tonight's debate, listening to the discussion, I might be able to do that, even though I realize, Mr Asscher, that this is going to produce some serious debates now and in the years to come. But it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u415	Now that the blockade of the CO levy is slowly but surely disappearing, a first important step towards increasing that support would be to demand and do justice to the trade union movement and the environmental organisations. I believe that gaining confidence from those organisations, who have not stepped back in the final phase of the climate agreement for nothing, should be the first act of this cabinet to show that it is indeed not just the coalition of four and the lobby, but more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u416	Yeah, that's true in itself. Of course, if they said they wanted to talk again, they would be very welcome. If Mr Asscher were to ask what he asked a few times in the first term, 'then again it must be said that if it is not one, it is by definition exactly the other', then I cannot undertake to do so here. There's no taboo. That has been made clear. Mr Asscher's plans are being passed on, and so are the plans of the cabinet. We need to get a good look at that when it's all there. But there is no contradiction, namely that there would be a taboo. I think everyone has said that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u417	I thought we were a little further. There was consensus that it could at least be an equivalent option and you could see what comes out of the calculations best. That is how I have had the debate so far. I think that this could be very important in the direction of the trade union movement, which is concerned about the lack of resources to maintain employment and whether the bill is fairly distributed. I find that there is no taboo almost too cheap in relation to where we are trying to get to in this debate. Buma just said: I would also like to look at the introduction of that CO levy if it comes out of the calculations better. This includes the employment effect. Then you don't say it's not taboo; then you say it's an equivalent option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u418	What will we have to do, every time, in the choices about industry? The 12 companies or actually the 300 polluting companies, because that's what you're talking about, now have to do about a third of the whole climate forecast. That's 14.3 megaton, so that's a huge bone waiting for them. We have a route for companies, through nudges, to make the necessary investments. This is about very large investments, with an uneconomic summit. That's our system. If they don't, they'll get heavy fines. There is another system conceivable with a CO levy. I listened to the debate. Mr Asscher's plan is also being passed on. I was thinking with Mr Klaver about what to do with a company like Tata Steel, if it turns out that 600 million to 1.2 billion extra has to be paid and closed. Can you take measures in such a CO charging system? That also requires a clarification, which we cannot make here tonight. In this respect, they are two gross concepts: on the one hand, the concept of the cabinet, which says that these companies must make huge investments of many, many billions, with an uneconomic summit of about 1 billion to get to those 14.3 megatons; on the other hand, a system of CO taxation. I think it's all being calculated now, there's no taboos and we're gonna look at that. Like Mr Asscher, I also see room for the trade union movement and Greenpeace and who it is to come and talk to again. That seems to me, but I can't determine it for them. I don't think they really ran away either. I think they're on strike. At least they're out for a while, but they didn't really run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u419	Your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u420	They should have written a clear letter: they cannot support the climate agreement if it is not realistic and the bill is not distributed fairly. That sound might look familiar to you. This has to do with the fact that all kinds of things have been sent, except for the carbon tax, which is so obvious. I'm glad you heard what was said. My question is: can the cabinet, after it has said it is not taboo, just accept that this is at least an equivalent option, even if there are still a lot of follow-up questions to ask and make clarifications? Then we have achieved something in this debate. I actually think it is hard to deny and that it is a very important step, also towards the environmental movement and the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u421	I find that complicated. From the cabinet we present a whole plan that is passed on. Mr Asscher's plan has been very detailed and has raised many detailed questions. No one said he'd lie down for that. If that gets better out of the accounts, it scores high eyes, but then there will also be a lot of follow-up questions. I just mentioned one: would that be the plan, the variant, how do you prevent the industry from pulling away? Mr Klaver has been called upon to do so in an interrupting debate and, I think, he has given a heartfelt response, which I thought would help. The point here is, of course, that you also have to look very closely at what neighbouring countries are doing. There are very few countries that have such a system. It's always said there are, but I went to look at it again. A country such as Sweden has excluded industry from this. Finland and Ireland have a lot of exemptions for energy-intensive industries. That would then fit in with the reaction Klaver gave to the question about that type of industry. The British only have it for electricity generation. So it is not the case that the whole of Europe is already... We are not the last to introduce a CO levy. The image is really more nuanced. But I think there is consensus in the sense of: no taboos, let's see what comes out. I see no reason for trade unions and environmental organizations not to come and talk again. But that's what I've been thinking: "Why did they run away? Let them stay."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u422	Let's follow up on that. Perhaps that is what we have understood from the environmental movement and the trade union movement that they are unable to give their consent to what is now being done, because they have actually experienced a blockage of the CO tax. In fact, they told us it was a taboo. It was unspeakable at those tables to come up with that proposal. Is that something the Prime Minister recognizes or denies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u423	That is where the complicated fact arises that these tables are the tables and that the concept climate agreement that lies there is all that comes out of those tables plus the cabinet letter, in which a number of variants are also outlined. That's all being calculated now. This must lead to a real climate agreement. What the tables produced was the start of the concept of climate change agreement. But the concept climate agreement itself is the tables plus the cabinet letter. In the meantime, history has also moved on. There is a suggestion from the Labour Party, which is now being passed on, for a flat CO levy. We're working from that postulate. I believe that the atmosphere in this debate is that we all look favourably at it, but the cabinet obviously has some enthusiasm for its own proposals, otherwise we would not have done so. We really need to see what comes out. Does that work? Does that lead to the required tonnages? One of the problems with the CO levy, as proposed by Mr Asscher, is that the question is whether it is going to produce the 14.3 megatons at all. What we know for sure is that the cabinet plan leads to that 14.3 megaton. Either the companies do it by investing, or they get such fines that you force them. That's the advantage of our plan. In the plan of a flat CO charge you have no guarantees that you will get that 14.3 megaton. So you will also have to look at how you organize in the design.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u424	Yes. But does the Prime Minister agree with me that a form of CO-tax, to put it in normal Dutch, should be a crucial part of a climate agreement, a package or whatever you want to call it, i.e. the climate measures that we are going to take? Firstly, to do it in a fair way and secondly, to do it in a way that the Netherlands can support it, so that there is support for it. Does he agree with that essence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u425	I think that industry, which is 300 companies, should do about a third of the job. That must be done in a way that does not favour the people in the country, as Hans Wiegel would say. I always think the word "citizen" is such a complicated word. In any case, the people in the country, you and I, all of us. That must be in a fair balance. But it is also very important that there are as few leakage effects as possible. One of the reasons why we have been deterred from a flat national CO levy on top of the ETS... Because make no mistake, these companies are all covered by the ETS. There is a CO levy for this through the European system. One of the reasons why we have been deterred from including this in the proposals is because this incentive is mainly for efficiency gains but not directly for investment in new technology. That's a risk of such an approach. It's more likely to lead to emission reductions due to leakage effects, but that's what you don't want. So we're gonna have to look at all these things. That is why it is so good that the cabinet has been deterred from this tax. We have said that all these aspects are of concern to us and that is why we are not doing so. CE Delft's research also shows that an additional national tax without refund is also the idea, I understand that it really causes the leakage of CO and leads to limited national reduction. Plus: you're not sure if you're getting the 14.3 megatons, while we definitely want to get the 14.3. So I think it's simple to listen to the debate. There is now a situation where we have a cabinet plan, which is passed on to all these aspects. The plan that comes from the opposition is also being calculated. There are no taboos. We're just gonna put it all together and we're gonna test it out to see if it's fair in the business-citizens ratio, if there's no leakage and if it's gonna get the 14.3 megaton as part of the 49% target.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u426	Of course, we have asked for the right CE Delft, which also counts for the Ministry, to assume a minimum rate for the CO tax. Then what are you getting at? It's true that it's worth $600 million in that bank transfer. This allows you to make 800,000 homes sustainable over a period of ten years. Those results are there. But the big question, which does not come up with a satisfactory answer, is whether the Prime Minister recognises the need for a fair climate policy. People open the newspaper and read what they need and what they are asked to do. In fact, they hear group chairmen on television arguing for loans that you have to take out to isolate your home independently. All that, but in the meantime it is still completely unclear what the big companies, the big polluters, are going to contribute. It is said: yes, we should all look at this again and weigh it up; we are going to try it out; maybe it will work, maybe it won't work. Surely that is completely the wrong order if you also want to create support for those climate measures that are so badly needed. Besides, it's just unfair, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u427	I understand that until May and perhaps until the elections, we will take the same measure. Then we also have European elections. And then you get another doom like you just painted, about citizens being forced to borrow. We have 31 years for that transition and we have 11 years until 2030. We're gonna do it nicely. I said: one of the three keys is that the people in the country, all of us, can also experience it financially. We want to make it to 49%. We have to be able to go through it all financially. And industry must not be favoured. But you also want to prevent the targets from being met. I have just quoted myself from the investigation of CE Delft. I just outline why, as a cabinet, we finally went for a system called the bonus-malus system. We have done so because we see risks in this CO levy. I just outlined some of them. It's all being calculated now. Other parties, such as Mr Asscher's party and your party, see great risks in the idea we have laid down. It's right next to each other. Let's just look at it soberly. Then I think we all agree that it must be fair in the distribution between citizens and businesses. You want a saving here not to lead to a worsening of CO emissions somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u428	The Prime Minister has just made a statement that I do not think he can make, namely that the CO penalty system is guaranteed to lead to 14 megatons of CO reduction. We don't know that at all. In fact, in the case of the CO-tax, you are much more sure that you will have that return, but with such a penalty system, the risk is very high that it will not be achieved at all. So the claim "we know for sure" can't hold. The question is not just whether we are not going to favour companies. Is this Prime Minister prepared to make companies pay, too, so that citizens' energy bills can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u429	I'll be right back on the people's energy bill. Then it is a separate question, which I will answer in a moment. In my view, the general starting point in this debate is that we all believe that people should experience it financially and that companies should not be unfairly favoured. I do not think that is the case in the proposals before us. But it's a touchstone we'll look at when it comes back. I think that in the proposals as they are about there, it is roughly possible that we can do it in such a way that people can experience it, also because of the time we have, and that companies are not unfairly favoured. I'm gonna hit that 14.3 megaton. Indeed, I cannot guarantee that our plan will lead to this, but there is a great opportunity, because in the proposal that is now before us from the table and the cabinet letter, companies are forced into a strangulation system to do more and more in ten years' time, to finally cough up those 14.3 megatons. If they don't, they'll get heavy fines. A CO charge on top of the ETS that we already have does not guarantee that you will get that 14.3 megatone with emission reduction. It provides efficiency gains, but it does not automatically generate investment in new technology. There is a huge risk of CO leakage to other countries; you just have to be real about that. That's why it scares us back. You will say: but that cabinet plan has all kinds of disadvantages. The good thing is they're both there now. Maybe in the next few weeks there'll be a third to come up with. When it comes to companies, we need broad support and we need to make a choice that we all say is fair, this leads to something and this does not mean that we are kicking a lot of jobs abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u430	I would like to talk about the energy bill, because it is connected with business. Everyone in this Chamber says we shouldn't let civilians pay. Somewhere the bill has to be paid. If companies, the big polluters, are to make a greater contribution, we can also reduce citizens' accounts. The bill that we have made for such a CO tax also reduces the cost to citizens. That is why it is not only a question of whether the Prime Minister is prepared to ensure that it is a fair distribution. No, it's more precise: does he dare to raise money from large companies, so that citizens' accounts in the Netherlands can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u431	We already get billions a year through taxes from large companies, of which a large proportion goes to the citizens. It's called taxation. If you decide on a CO levy now and I refer again to the report by CE Delft, on top of the ETS, without re-routing to that sector, that would, according to the same research agency, cause a huge leakage of CO. I repeat, a massive carbon leakage. What did you achieve when you did that? If you do such a CO2 tax without refund, this will result in a limited national reduction, will cause huge loss of production in certain sectors and will lead to a significant loss of employment. I understand what Mr Klaver is asking here: how do you make sure that people get out of here? But that's what I just said. At the end of the day, we must come to something, and I am sure that we will succeed in distributing the matter fairly. But now say "we pick it up from the companies and we give it to the citizens," with all these effects as appointed by one research agency, which has also been mentioned a few times by the SP? You gotta be real about that, too. Those are the facts as they lie there. That is the reason why the cabinet was eventually deterred from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u432	I also know all those research reports, so the Prime Minister doesn't have to read them. We did not say in any way that there should be no backlock to those companies. In fact, that's very important. But I'm asking a crucial question, and that's what the Prime Minister is all about. That's problematic. He says: in the Netherlands we already raise a lot of money, including from those companies, and we redistribute it. In the last year, billions have been given by reducing the tax on profits. There was still the idea to abolish the dividend tax. That's problematic. If you want to ensure that citizens' accounts in this country can be reduced, companies will have to make a greater contribution. So I find that problematic. The Prime Minister is talking about the possibility of such a CO tax but that everything actually has to go back to business, while I think it is quite clear that not only GroenLinks but also other left-wing parties here in the Chamber indicate: citizens should also notice it and that account should be lowered. That's why I'm gonna ask you one more time. Is he prepared to raise money from those companies to redistribute to citizens in addition to relocating to businesses, so that the energy bill can be reduced? Is he willing to open his eyes to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u433	There are no taboos, I told you. In the plan that the Labour Party with the support of other opposition parties or only... In any case, in my opinion, the plan that is now being calculated is a complete backlock, not to businesses, but to a large extent to citizens. We're gonna see all these effects. As far as I am concerned, there are no taboos, but I do outline here why the cabinet finally made a certain choice. We have made that choice differently, because we know from the studies that have been done that if you reroute it in this way, it leads to things that I do not think you want: limited national reduction, carbon leakage, significant loss of production in certain sectors and a large loss of employment. That's not what I'm saying; that's what the research office that the Socialist Party is quoting, CE Delft. You can find anything you want. We're about to be billed for the entire Asscher plan and there are no taboos. I'm not saying the cabinet plan is perfect either. The tragedy with this whole story is that there are no perfect plans to achieve these great goals. There are, however, a few starting points. I think we share that broad in the Chamber. We all want to get 49%. We want people to be able to experience this in a decent way without having to do all kinds of weird shit in their personal lives. We also want people to have perspective on how to do that. And we want companies to participate fairly. I also want to prevent a major leakage of CO abroad. I think that's the starting point. We agree on that. There are no taboos in there. But it should not be the case that Mr Klaver is trying to bring this up again as a kind of VVD-GroenLinks and the VVD for business. I'm not for companies, I'm for jobs. These companies provide jobs, and I think we are all for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u434	I believe that this debate is intended for more than commonplaces. Fortunately, we may be able to find each other on many points, but this is a crucial point. That's why I ask the Prime Minister so often. Can he just say here, not only that there are no taboos, but also: I am willing to raise money from these big companies, I am willing to do so responsibly and return it to a lower energy bill? I'm afraid I can't hear him say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u435	No, because I refer to the research report I have before me, which states that it has very negative consequences, including for CO reduction. So why would you want to, I guess. But if there is a way in which this can be done while maintaining the objectives, then there is no taboo. That's always my answer. There are two other things I would like to address in relation to a specific question. The first was on the question of objectives and the European lobby. At the end of this year, Europe will be looking again at the goal of achieving the Paris objectives, but that will be 2020. You know: the 2°C warming, but actually moving to the 1.5°C. That must be done by the end of the year, beginning next year. The Netherlands believes that because of all the figures there is that you should actually go to a CO reduction target of 55%. That's what the coalition agreement says. We're planning at 49% right now, so that's where the plan is being made. In the end, we are doing what European average happens. But if that European average is below 55%, we will try to form a leading group with neighbouring countries to get it back as much as possible towards that 55%. Why do you do that? Because it prevents the level playing field from being broken. How's the lobby? Yeah, that lobby? We'll talk to everyone and everything about it. The results are skinny, but they're here. Sweden has explicitly supported the 55%. France, Finland, Luxembourg, Portugal and Spain agree that we really need to go much higher than the 40% previously established. It's February. Those conversations are going on. I do a lot of it myself. This afternoon with the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the German Bundestag, after coming from Mr Buma, and I assume he was already lobbied on this point. Eric Wiebes is doing a lot about it. Sigrid Kaag does a lot about it. Internationally, outside Europe, we are also working to ensure that we maintain the Paris objectives not only in Europe but also in the rest of the world. There is now a long-term vision of the European Commission, which has been important for a climate-neutral Union in 2050. We support this ambition and we have previously called on the Commission to do so with Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden. That's important. The Commission has said that if we agree on the target for 2050, we will be able to deduce the target for 2030 in the rest of this year. So that's work in progress. It's not a guarantee of results. I can't give it here, but we're working really hard on it. And again, if Europe does not succeed in reaching that 55%, we will try to form a leading group with neighbouring countries. In the end, we do the European average or what comes out of that leading group. In the sausage case that is the European average. This could, strictly speaking, be below 49%. I do not expect that, because now all the added European plans already lead to 45% reduction. So I'd be surprised if we couldn't get at least that 49%. I do have good expectations of that, but there is no obligation to do so either. That at that point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the energy bill. In fact, Mr Buma has mowed the lawn away from me by pointing out the elements, Mr Dijkhoff and others have said something about the increase in the energy bill, but also about the fact that the cabinet chooses not to pursue income policy through the energy bill, but in a different way. I refer you to the fact that we can always refer to the Nibud and to the Central Planning Office. 96% of the Netherlands, I am not saying that, but that is not what the government says, but our independent calculator says that this year is progressing and that includes the calculation of the VAT increase, the rising care premium and the rising energy bill. Of course, there is still the ODE in that energy bill, which is used to finance the Stimulation of Sustainable Energy Production. It is part of this, in addition to the fact that others have already pointed out the rising energy costs themselves. Those are the questions I was asked. The rest, I respectfully refer to Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u436	Yes. Then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u437	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the update on the lobby for the 55%-head group. The Finnish Parliament has recently informed our Committee on EZK that Finland too is now behind 55%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u438	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u439	So that's good news. I also asked in the first period whether the cabinet would be willing to talk to neighbouring countries in that lobby about the willingness to have a common minimum price in that ETS, including for industry. At the last UN Climate Summit in Katowice, MEPs from Germany and France, among others, asked the Dutch MPs: you are having this intense discussion about the minimum price for CO for the industrial sector, would it not be nice if we could jointly set such a minimum price in the ETS? Are you willing to take that with you in the lobby?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u440	Yeah, that's totally insane. This would at least facilitate some of the intense discussions we have had here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u441	Then Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u442	My question to the Prime Minister is about that energy bill. A number of times have already been said here: everyone is improving, even the Nibud says so, so what are we still talking about? Yeah, that's right. That's right, the Nibud says so. The honest story is that you have to say that the Nibud also says that it is very marginal and limited. At the same time, people in so many places see care premium, rent, VAT, energy bill costs rise, that their experience is really different. That is certainly the case when you look at it in the long-term perspective. Wages do not rise as the economy spins like a tierelier. Quite a bit that people are making some progress, otherwise this cabinet would really be doing very badly. But then I come to my point of the energy bill. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that it is not only unfair that there should be a full debate here on what should or should not come out of that climate agreement, and what large companies should or should not do, while ordinary people will see the energy bill rise by almost €300 next year, according to the Consumers' Union? Doesn't the Prime Minister simply agree with me that this is highly unfortunate and, in fact, simply unjust?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u443	There is still a lot to be done on these figures, but just a little bit more. I just outlined what we did in the purchasing power debate in August and September and the whole picture that was laid out here on Princess' Day. Then you can see that the Central Planning Bureau has calculated that the over-, over-, over- and over- part of the Netherlands is making much more progress than ever in recent years. This is not only because income tax is falling, but also because wages are rising. You have just seen the good news that employers and workers in the metal have come out with a wage increase of over 3% twice. So you can see that the wage increases are actually starting to accelerate. I am always careful to make predictions about that, but if you look through your eye hairs at the various collective agreements in the past six months, you will see those wage increases, as you often see in economic cycles, starting with some delay. This is reflected in the purchasing power picture calculated by the Central Planning Office. This includes wage increases in collective wage agreements. This does not always take place on 1 January, because the increase in collective agreements occurs on the month on which such a new collective agreement takes effect, sometimes with a refund. That's what you're gonna have to include in it. Then you can see that 96% of the Netherlands are improving according to all these figures. The Nibud also says, looking purely at the pay slips of January, that it improves, most of the Netherlands. Once again, the Central Planning Bureau does not exclude wage increases due to contract wage developments in the market sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u444	Last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u445	The Prime Minister is not going to answer my question. There is a lot of talk that this increase in wages is still coming up and that 96% is progressing. Yes, it would be bad if that did not work even in these times of economic growth, but the Nibud rightly says that this growth is only marginal, while the profits of companies are huge, the benefits to shareholders are huge and the substantial wage increase is simply lagging behind. But my question was about the energy bill. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that it is unfortunate, to say the least, but it is really unfair that we in the Chamber are still discussing what we are going to ask large companies, big polluters, while people are seeing their energy bills rise by €300 next year? And does he want to do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u446	I think that's an improper discussion. You cannot look at one aspect of the total income picture of the Dutch population; you also have to look at VAT and rising healthcare costs. An average Dutchman loses almost 500 euros per month of his health care costs if you add up everything, so not only the health insurance premium but also everything that goes through the paychecks etc. In contrast to these increases, we have introduced a substantial reduction in income tax, which will continue over the next two years. If you also see the now accelerating collective wage development in the business sectors and what the objective calculators say about it, then you cannot take out one aspect. I keep thinking that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u447	This is a climate debate tonight. This is about climate action. There is plenty of money being paid about where the bill is going to be and whether large companies are going to pay their fair share. I'm gonna take this out because normal people at home are gonna feel this and they're gonna have to pay. The energy bill goes up by €300. For the rest, it is still completely unclear what large companies are going to do. In fact, this evening there will not even be a guarantee that there will be a CO levy that will force companies not to pay their crazy share. I take this measure out because a lot of people are right to say: I have to pay for this and the rest is still waiting, is all vague, of which we all have to see what will and will not happen. That's just not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u448	That is simply not true. For higher salaries, wage increases are limited, but the pay slips in January do indeed increase especially for the very broad middle group. The current net developments on the pay slip, regardless of collective wage developments, do indeed compensate for rising healthcare costs, rising energy bills and rising VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u449	I also asked the Prime Minister two questions. The first is: if we have to fill in later, what are the costs? I think it is fair to outline this towards the taxpayer as well. The second concerns livestock farming and the activities of the previous Rutte cabinet. When the climate agreement was concluded in Paris, the Animal Party immediately said: "Watch out, the biggest cause of climate change." This state in the top three species is livestock farming. The Rutte cabinet then chose the flight forward and said: we let the Environment Council conduct an investigation to advise us on what to do with that livestock farming, in the light of the climate goals. That council then did so, and the Rutte III cabinet separates that investigation and leaves it to LTO to separate that whole research in the climate tables. LTO stands for farmers who drag hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u450	And now the question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u451	So I wonder why the Prime Minister does not include his main advisory body in the inventory of the measures of this climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u452	You will have that answer from Mr Wiebes in a moment. It's in his set.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u453	The Prime Minister can do that, but I think it is significant that he does not want to answer the question of what it is going to cost the taxpayer if we linger and he does not want to answer the question of why that report, which he himself asked for with his previous cabinet, about what we should do with the livestock in view of the climate targets, has been pushed aside and LTO can decide what to do with the livestock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u454	The point is that it would be a debate with Mr Wiebes. I have been asked to do so and then I am here, but it seems logical that all the more technical questions should be answered by the trade minister. That's how we've divided it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u455	I had asked the Prime Minister about his personal commitment to strength and support. That sounds like an obligatory question, but it's meant to be much bigger than that. I also hope for more than an obligatory answer. There's life worries. After the concept climate agreement had come out, this led to a lot of questions, and sometimes also to large chocolate letters in headlines in newspapers, weekly newspapers, newspapers. It led to a lot of questions in people. What's it gonna cost? Isn't it too fast? Isn't it too much? Then it is crucial that the cabinet also takes charge here. One of the reasons for this debate has been Mr Dijkhoff's interview. Whatever else you think of that, the reason for that was that there were concerns. I have the next question to the Prime Minister. We saw a nice video on CNN: in beautiful eloquent English he explained the why of the energy transition, indeed in English. Could this also be possible for Hart van Nederland, for De Telegraaf or for other Dutch media? And would he like to take the lead in that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u456	Sure. I'm doing the same thing. This is very often the case on Friday at the press conference and in the conversation I have then, but I now understand that Mr Segers does not see it every week. Shame. It's always in the top ten best-visited programs. I was also thinking partly because Mr Segers was looking at it. But without madness, the answer to that is yes. But let's get these two aspects out of there right away. There are two major concerns. I wanted to deal with the first major concern in the performances mentioned by Mr Segers, but also at other times, for example in May at the VVD Congress, when I spoke about this in a party context. That is about the great concern in the world about climate change, about the fact that it's two to twelve and that if we don't take action, we're taking big risks with the whole system we live in. That's one side. That care lives with a lot of people. This can be translated into air quality in the short term. If you don't believe in the CO problem and global warming, then the fact that we are living here on one of the most polluted parts of the world may be enough motivation for me to believe after a few regions in China and Hong Kong. For the climate skeptics, I would like to say that you can also have the dependence of the Middle East and Russia on your energy supply as a reason. There are so many reasons to do this, but for me the direct, personal motivation lies in the great concern for the system in which we live and the thought that this generation needs to clean up this mess and can't move through it. In that sense, it's kind of like the state debt. You don't move it to the next generation, and you don't move this shit to the next generation, if only because it might make it impossible for that generation to fix it. That's one concern. The other concern is: but how? There I see a bright spot in this debate. Call me an optimist there you have it again; sorry, I can't let it go either, but if I listen to this debate and see what it's about, about whether we do the industry via the Asscher route or via the cabinet route, I think: you know, you might get out of it. If that's the big debate in the Netherlands, you might get out of it. So you could work on that after a lot of battle, because it's going to be a lot of battle in the campaign and so on and you could eventually agree on a path with perhaps more than 100 or perhaps more than 125 seats in Parliament. A path where you meet the goal, where you take everyone in the country and no one suddenly has to cancel their holiday, sell their car or buy their heat pump tomorrow and take a huge loan. A path where you can take away all those worries. Ladies and gentlemen, the viewers at home, we have 11 years. After that, if you take it until 2050, we have 31 years. It doesn't have to be tomorrow and we're gonna do it in a proper way. We're not gonna make life impossible for people in their personal lives. In addition, there is the third leg of the triangle as I always have it in my head and I even drew it here: the companies. That is the point of the discussion I just had with Mr Asscher and others on how to ensure that companies participate properly and that competitiveness is maintained. But that is also a concern, namely that we do not get that right, that we only go for the 49 and do not take the other things into account or that we say: oh, what a disaster; purchasing power is falling all the way through the floor, so leave the 49 alone. So you have to settle it in a balance, with broad support, after which you can say to the Netherlands: this is now the plan with broad political support. So it's probably about cabinets. That's why I'm so supportive. In addition, you are not dependent on the elections of 2021, but roughly set out a path for the coming years until 2030 and 2050, with the rest that goes with it: boys, we can do this together in a decent way. And, you know, that was what I believe Mr Asscher said, so it can be fun, because then we can also make a lot of money from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u457	Beautiful. As far as I am concerned, the latter may be added without embarrassment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u458	Yes, you are also the entrepreneurs!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u459	It leads to innovation and knowledge. When it comes to water management, we are called on all over the world because of that knowledge. Here too, we can develop knowledge that we can make money with and help other countries and others elsewhere in the world. As far as I am concerned, the warm encouragement to tell this story not only at the Friday press conference, but also at Hart van Nederland.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u460	I'm on it. If Hart van Nederland listens: I invite myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u461	Still a bit to clear up what just stuck in the first term. Would the Prime Minister explain exactly how the landing rights, as they were mentioned at the time, were negotiated between 17 and 21 December of the work of the climate tables, which led to the climate agreement in draft sent? That took place under the leadership of Wiebes and Rutte. This is important because Mr Dijkhoff does not remember being present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u462	Now we have such a nice discussion, I have just come to Mr Segers'. I saw you getting warmed up with those words too. An argument that I really believe and then you come back to this silly joke: what happened between 17 and... Well, I don't think this is so strong. Do I really have to explain that to you? Okay, I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u463	I've explained it before: in the book Debate with Rutte...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u464	Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I also have a handbook on Debating with Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u465	Part 4: the review of what the other says if you do not want to answer the question. That's about "I don't think this is so strong" or "I think that's very funny." That's actually always a meta moment. There's been a negotiation with the Prime Minister. There were 17 participants who walked through the building with the tongue on their shoes, so heavy it was. They were negotiating the landing rights of the climate agreement. A few weeks later, Dijkhoff couldn't remember. That's very bad for the support. Then you can go to Hart van Nederland, but that is still very bad. So my question is whether it is true that Mr Dijkhoff was present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u466	Falseness is in it.That's the manual debating with Asscher; there you see that we've known each other for too long.That's one thing you pull out that makes you very big and sets you up as a self-employed fact. Of course, that is not what Dijkhoff said either. Then I have to detox it first: Dijkhoff did not say so, not even in the interview. Let me tell you what happened. We have a huge problem to solve in order to achieve these objectives. Then we said: let's split that up into five groups. Sorry, Eric, you had that in your set, too, but you can explain it like that. These five groups were the built environment, industry, electricity, agriculture and transport. There you put experts at the table, partly because they can provide input and partly because they also have to commit. For example, I look at provinces and municipalities. You also want them to help to actually deliver CO emissions themselves. A lot of that came out of it. We haven't all been discussing that. That is the draft of a draft climate agreement, a draft climate agreement. What happened to make a draft a concept climate agreement? We have done this by saying: we are putting a cabinet letter on that pile, and that cabinet letter actually addresses the most salient, difficult points of discussion. Dijkhoff and the others discussed this with each other, not to draw conclusions about it, but to put alternatives on each of those serious points of discussion, and they were not so heavy for nothing. I am thinking, for example, of the car, the houses and also the CO, the industry and the whole idea of a bonus-malus scheme. That combination, so what comes out of those tables plus that cabinet letter, is the concept climate agreement. So Dijkhoff and I and all the others have talked about those five most difficult points. We didn't say that: this is what we're gonna do. We have said of this: what comes out of the tables, often provided with alternatives, let us pass on, and we have three objectives, namely that we achieve 49%, that people can experience it and that the companies also contribute in a fair way. That is what we are going to do, and that is what we are going to try to decide in April and May. I think that's exactly what Dijkhoff said about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u467	Good. One last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u468	But we didn't go through 600 measures with all of them, and we didn't go through all the details either. It is also not that we have said yes to everything that the car table has invented or everything that the house table has invented. No, we didn't say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u469	Mr Asscher, this is your last interruption, while your question will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs. I'm just saying, just so you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u470	I understand very well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u471	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u472	However, as a conclusion: I think that the process outlined here by the Prime Minister is what happened. There's been talk in all kinds of variants for a year, like you do. Everyone was involved. There have been negotiations on the salient issues. This means that Dijkhoff saw the salient issues, that the agreement, which was then seen as historic, was presented and that the unsuspecting voters and viewers could assume that Dijkhoff had taken over or at least weighed what was salient about it. Then it's not strong to pretend in The Telegraph that you didn't know anything and that it's not your agreement. That's all up to you, to the VVD and to Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u473	But it's not true. It didn't happen like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u474	I'll give it to you. Whether it's true what was in De Telegraaf and De Telegraaf will really keep checking whether that's the attitude or whether it's true what you're sketching, but not both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u475	It's not true. You're not doing justice to my words. It's okay. That's in the Asscher manual, I say again: you take 90% and you give it a twist. That is allowed; that is also part of debate. We've always had a lot of fun together. No, what I'm just describing isn't that Dijkhoff or me or Jetten or anyone else said about those five difficult issues: yes, this is how we're gonna do it. We said, "We have that objective. These are the hardest points. This and this is from the tables. We also provide alternatives to this, and this will be taken into account in its entirety." And what we all, all the parties, are saying here, I think, is that people should be able to experience that. So it must also work in purchasing power and, of course, in companies, and you want to get that 49%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u476	In the way in which the Prime Minister approaches this now, I hear a bit of the same approach as that of Dijkhoff, the group chairman of the VVD in the Lower House. I just heard you say it's been so many years and we're doing it quietly. But I keep thinking, okay, you can argue that, but we've... no, you've committed to all those goals now, and they're just very hard and very ambitious. Just one thing, on page 29 of the climate agreement: 1.5 million households must become climate neutral in the next ten years. What kind of costs do you think are involved in this? I just want a rough estimate. What kind of amounts are we talking about? And where would you like to put those amounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u477	I'm not gonna risk estimates right now. One of the reasons why we're putting things through right now is that we also want to know whether the sum of what's on the table doesn't need everything that's on the table, and there are all kinds of alternatives in the box that can eventually lead to a 49% package. The historic agreement is what came out of the tables to the cabinet for food. The cabinet then wrote a letter to that effect. That is the concept of a climate agreement. There's no climate agreement until the cash-outs are there and my little triangle is realized. That's what we're gonna do in April and May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u478	I understand that, but it's a pretty basic principle of good governance that you have about in mind first or something feasible before you adopt a law obliging yourself to do something. Of course, you can say, "Okay, we're going through the math now, we're going to fine tune a little bit." But you've got to have something in your head about what kind of amounts this is. This is about hundreds of billions. That's what we're talking about. You can say "my little triangle" and "it all has to be a bit neat and fun," and maybe there are people who fall for it, but I think that the vast majority of people in the Netherlands, and I too, want you to take a more concrete approach, that you are a little more practical, that you say a little more clearly what you think you are going to pay for it. Eventually, people are gonna cough this up, if all this goes on. But they can't afford it. A lot of people in the Netherlands can't afford that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u479	That is also one of the reasons why we, as a coalition, have said together: it is not just about achieving the objective. It is also about the other two conditions that I have outlined. That is also one of the reasons why we have everything passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u480	Mr. Baudet, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u481	But it's not that, if you let it pass through, the cost can become endlessly more or less? You can't say I'm gonna do it, then I'll see how, but I promise it won't cost too much money? That's totally irresponsible governance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u482	The third one's true, but the first two aren't. That order doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u483	Well, yeah, I do. A law has now been passed: in 11 years' time 49% CO reduction compared to how much we emitted in 1990 and 95% in 30, 31 years' time. Then a lot of people, including me, say: that's not to be paid. Then you say, no, we're still counting it. But it's absurd that you say, "I'm gonna do it," and we're gonna pass it on for once, but I already know it's not gonna be too expensive." You don't know that at all. If you just look soberly at what it means to make 1.5 million households climate neutral in 11 years, you can see that it's about astronomical amounts. That has nothing to do with panicking, as Dijkhoff blames me. It's just a matter of sober thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u484	Now I think Mr Baudet is really confusing a few things. That's climate law. And that is that we have to make a package, and that is the final climate agreement that needs to be reached, in which we are setting the path together for the next 11 and the next 31 years to the 49% reduction and ultimately to climate neutrality, at least 80% to 95% reduction, by 2050. This objective needs to be further strengthened. The Climate Act is an important precondition for this. So what we're doing now is we're going to let them figure out how to come up with a package. We think it can be done in a decent way, without harming people's way of life. In fact, it has to be done in such a way that people say: hey, yes, I can experience that, and it's also interesting to do, because it leads to all kinds of side effects for the value of my home or for the choices I make in my personal life. Then you do it without forcing people to sell their homes, cancel their holidays or get rid of their cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u485	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u486	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u487	But are you prepared to say here as well, and that seems to me to be the honest story: there is a scenario possible in which it simply becomes too expensive? You say, "Okay, we're gonna pass it on and we're gonna go for an affordable scenario." That's beautiful. But are you prepared to say: if we get out of that bill that it will be priceless for the Netherlands, then we won't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u488	We would not, of course, outline the three points of the triangle here. We would like to achieve 49%, with the cross-compliance if we thought we could not. We think it's possible. We've got clues to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u489	On what grounds do you think it can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u490	Based on all the research and all the work that's been done over the past few years. Everything's going through now. There is a whole package of proposals. There must be a lot of fine tuned. Over the next few months, we will really hit each other in the head, in the coalition and in the Chamber, but in my opinion we will come to something that has broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u491	That's not based on anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u492	I won't convince you tonight. But it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u493	The Prime Minister almost complained that he hadn't had so many questions. I did ask a question about Urgenda. That was related to the Prime Minister's ruling...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u494	Oh, boy, I can't get away with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u495	...that the goal is to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u496	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u497	I hope, however, that this is not an effort obligation but an obligation to achieve results. That's what I want from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u498	The goal is to achieve the goal. Did I tell you that? The goal is to achieve the goal. We are making every effort to do so. The scope of the judgment is an obligation to result. That's right. But it's not like the verdict is a result obligation. The purpose of the judgment is an obligation to result, that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u499	Last question, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u500	It must be up to me that I really do not understand this very clear explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u501	That's a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u502	Sure, but the question I asked is very relevant. The Prime Minister's got a bit of a way around it. I'm not asking how the verdict should be interpreted. The cabinet has indicated that it is going to study measures: how can we achieve the targets by 2020? I just want to hear from him whether it is an effort or an obligation to achieve the 2020 target. That's actually a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u503	Then I will give you the answer that, if you look at the verdict, it is true that the purpose is an obligation to achieve results. That is the meaning of the sentence. So the goal is also to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u504	So the purpose of the verdict is that it is a result obligation and the purpose is to achieve it? Why doesn't the Prime Minister want to say it's a result obligation? Because that's crucial to how we handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u505	Because the verdict will be interpreted by you in a different way. The verdict is clear. This means that there is an obligation to achieve this. Just as completely apart from the verdict is also the coalition's goal to... had I told you that? To achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u506	You have a second term, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u507	Mr President, just now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u508	No, no, no, no, no, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u509	Mr President, thank you. Several questions have been asked about the process, including the process of the transfer. There was a lot of interest in the industry. There was also interest in how things are going in the built environment. There were questions both about the fund-building that we have in mind, and about the window function in the built environment. Of course there are also one or two Urgenda questions. And then I've got some loose questions from several spokesmen. I'll take them all with me after that. There's one about the cattle, so we're gonna get it. Mr. Chairman. I have a certain interest in not only finding differences but also agreement in this debate. I note that the concerns that exist in this Chamber are precisely a reflection of what is happening on the streets. Because there are ever larger groups on the street that are increasingly louder to say that they are concerned about global warming. Yeah, there's a lot of kids in there. Don't blame them! They have a larger share of that future than we do here on average. These young people want us to take action. At the same time, there are many people who say: if all of this is to be done, what about my central heating? Do I have to replace it now? Is the meatball threatened? Do I still have my job later? Is it all have to, or do I have something to choose? When we look at the statistics, we inevitably come to the conclusion that these concerns increasingly coincide with exactly the same people. So, yes, they want us to do something. And yes, we want it all to go at a human pace and a human way. In this respect, there are more and more spokesmen here who express that. What's there? It is not an agreement, but it is a draft climate agreement. That consists of the proposals from the tables. All kinds of things have been added: variants and options. There is still a lot to choose, but the consensus was that this is the moment when things have to be calculated so that we can see what works and what does not. This means that, within the scope of the agreement and beyond, all kinds of choices are conceivable. The triangle is now widely known. We're gonna get the barrels, that's the first criterion. The question is also asked whether the viewing of the 55% is sufficiently robust. The second criterion is whether there are effects on the household wallet with all the worries and questions. Is the division fair? We have households. We have SMEs. We have big companies. We have industry. And, of course, we have international effects, because we have written in the government agreement that the measures in the Netherlands should not lead to higher emissions elsewhere. That's what the coalition agreement says. We have also said that we want to make economic progress and that we do not want to drive the companies away with their emissions. Target's at the top of the line. If the target was not to be met anywhere, once the transfer is made, then the measures will be tightened up. If we don't reach the target, they'll be tightened up again. They may be replaced. The target will be achieved. There will therefore not be a final climate agreement in which the three objectives are not met, i.e. both the tonnes and the effects on the wallet, as well as the effects on the companies and the road leak. Then what's the process in that? On March 13th, there will be a bill. Maybe it's good to take some of the abstraction away from that. What's a wire transfer? Firstly, the Planning Office for the Environment is calculating whether we are supposed to make it through these measures. I will come back briefly on several sub-tables, because questions have been asked about this, but the question is simply whether the 49% will be achieved. We have also added all kinds of variants. There is also a variant with a CO price up to €100 per tonne, to see what its effects are. The income effects can also be seen, for different types of households: what does it do for the household wallet? That is important, because there are all kinds of concerns about that. At the same time, we'll know what the road leak is. Some measures have barely leaked, others more. There may always be something about leaking away, because the Netherlands is a tiny country, but it has to be taken into account. There is also the what is called the "levelplayingfield key" in code language. I have the feeling that perhaps it deserves a little more attention if we start gloating on 13 March. What the hell is that? This means that we are looking at the effects for industry, on the tonnes, on the playing field and on the road leak, on all kinds of CO pricing, so the CO pricing as contained in the draft climate agreement, but also CO pricing that is based on a broader tax, including for all kinds of levels of CO pricing. That is what we want to know, because we are not sure in advance whether we are doing the right things. I will briefly outline the history of the solution in industry. I'm totally behind that otherwise I wouldn't have written it down, but of course you'll never know for sure. You need to be open to anything that can happen with a wire transfer. So the level playingfield key is important. It gives insights into what is also in demand in this Chamber. We are also going to look at the ODE, the storage of renewable energy. It won't be on March 13th, but it will be before the summer. I have promised the Chamber to speed up this process and to see if we can work with a possible change in the burden between citizens and businesses by 2020. That of course uses the level playingfield test, because it has to show if there is room in the industry to get more without the companies running away immediately. That's done in all nuances. This means that before the summer there is also an insight, with a discussion with this Chamber, into how the ODE burden might be susceptible to a different distribution, and all this on the basis of facts and figures. Mr Van Rooijen said: I have heard sounds that a pass-through would not be possible. I have heard those sounds, but there is confidence that this can be passed on to an important extent. I have no indication that this is not the case. I may have read the same reports as Mr Van Rooijen, but it is not that I think it is unaccountable on the basis of that message. I note that the scan done by a party in the financial sector, which we are not going to mention here, is not entirely correct and incomplete. There is confidence, also at the CPB itself, that they can get out of this and that we will get insights on 13 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u510	Has Mr Van Rooijen's question been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u511	Yes, that was the answer to Mr Van Rooijen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u512	The Prime Minister was just talking about people having to go through it. That was one of the three points of the triangle. I meant the following with the wire transfers. There was indeed a financial institution, which I do not mention as a questioner. You agree with me, Mr Dijkhoff admits it, and I think Mr Buma agrees that transfers and purchasing power calculations are relative. In particular, Mr Dijkhoff acknowledged this. The CPB's on a wiretap. The Nibud does much more, for many more different households. You will get that you may have to make 500 or 600 bills for different groups: you have a house and a car, you only have a house, what kind of property you have, and so on. It's a lot more complicated than that. And one of the colleagues also said that you cannot say: 'Half is improving and half of it is declining. So the average is zero, and so it's really good."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u513	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u514	So my question is: do you share the concerns about the limitations of credit transfers, particularly as regards the purchasing power of the hundreds of different groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u515	Of course, we can define more and more groups. In all honesty, of course, that's what's happening. During the time Mr Van Rooijen was on this side, there were fewer groups that were taken into account in the distribution of purchasing power annually than at present. The fineness takes almost frightening forms, but we know that we are skilled. I dare to say: more than in by far most countries in following and arguing the purchasing power of all kinds of different groups. That's no exception here. We do that every year. Here too, we will be able to indicate what the effects are for different groups. And then we all know that each group also has a point cloud, but as the groups are more homogeneous, that effect is less large. I think we've raised that art to the finest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u516	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u517	Then Mr. Buma asks: these bills are all nice, but what are we taking and what aren't? The Planning Office for the Environment takes into account all the policies adopted in the Netherlands and neighbouring countries. The Atomausstieg in Germany has been established. The strengthening of the European ETS is a policy established. The Kohleausstieg is not yet. And now his question is: but if that were to happen, wouldn't that be beneficial to the Netherlands and help us? That is certainly the case. Perhaps we should look at these developments ourselves, not only with a political eye, but also with an 'expert judgment' eye, in the period when more is known about them. It could be that foreign countries are also going to do something about it. I have always said this: I cannot imagine, for example, that an exceptionally organized and friendly country such as Germany, which fully endorses the Paris agreements, will not do anything in the period up to 2020. So, of course, we are getting a little more wind than these calculations might reveal. But this is what the PBL takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u518	I think it is important that we have that clear when it comes out. The special thing is, of course, that the PBL calculates as if the neighbouring countries were still and only the Netherlands is changing. But the neighbouring countries are also changing. So, in my view, it makes a huge difference whether we start from a Germany and a Belgium that also do 49%, or from a Germany and a Belgium that do 45% or 40%, as has been established today. I almost think: if we get a result from the Netherlands 49% later, but that is based on neighbouring countries that do much less, then what can we do with it? Because it's probably gonna be easier than what it looks like in practice. Belgium and Germany are now at 40%, and they are going up. That makes it so difficult, even knowing that we are facing very big choices that may become much easier if those neighbouring countries join us. And I don't know how that should be passed on, but I'd like it if that were taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u519	In any case, everything that has been established is already being taken away. But we must, of course, make policy with open eyes. We are in the middle of defining policies in a world that is changing around us. We, as sensible people, will have to take that into account. I can imagine that if there is a breakthrough, for example in the Kohleusestieg, we will ask the PBL to look closely at it again. We must not pretend that the world is still around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u520	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u521	And by the way: that the world moves around us is no reason to stand still and wait for everything. That's true. Then, of course, the question is: yes, wait a minute, we had also decided to consider going to 55%. That's true. Mr Dijkhoff asks when this will happen and how we will do it. How do these international percentages actually talk to each other? The moment when Europe submits its nationally determined contribution "nationally" concerns the whole of Europe, I say to those who love it; there are supporters and opponents of it, but that's how it works now: it's the first half of 2020. Then we know what the European objective is. That does not mean that we have to switch back or switch off immediately; it may be that we will still be forced to form a leading group. That is what we are working on and, of course, this should be largely parallel, but if Europe does not produce 55%, we will try to do so with a leading group. But around that time is the time to take stock and see if we can increase our objective. Then, of course, the question is: if the European objective becomes 55%, what Dutch objective does that actually fit in with? Because we all know that European targets and Dutch targets have so far been numerically very different numbers, so how do we actually do that? There are two different types of national climate targets. It will be an acid class for a while, but I am going to give Mr Dijkhoff a full answer to his question in such a way that he will probably fall asleep, but he has the idea that he will have the answer. There are two different national climate targets. They have nothing to do with each other, I say. At European level, we have set a reduction target for 2030. That's 40%. This objective will not be translated into the Member States one-on-one. The European objective will be split into a European ETS target and a European non-ETS target and only the non-ETS target will be translated, because we are doing the ETS together. The aim of ETS is not to translate it nationally, but to do it together. So we have translated the non-ETS target into the Netherlands. That wouldn't be 40%. The non-ETS target is 30% in Europe, and we are doing 36% of that again. Anyway, you see that this is not going to lead to anything, because there is no direct translation of a European goal into a Dutch goal. But that's not how the Planning Office for the Environment set our goal. The PBL has not derived this from a European objective at all. It's just been pretty simple. It said 2050 is about here and we're drawing a straight line. Pulling straight is our Planbureau for the Environment very good. It simply read the line at 2030 and saw that it was 49%. That's fine. That corresponds to a global warming of 2 C. If you were to follow exactly the same methodology for Europe and say for Europe too, 'we are not doing difficult, we are drawing a straight line', that could be a different number, but the point is: it doesn't actually do that. By chance, this method reaches the same number for Europe and the Netherlands. I am not the PBL and I am not the referee who is going to say what goes with what, but I dare to predict that those goals will not differ numerically. In terms of speech use, therefore, I should like to assume that a European 55% could also be translated into a Dutch 55%. That's about how it's going. That's what we committed to. I'm totally ignoring Mr. Rutte right now. I hear him saying he understands. I am pleased to note that there is a great deal of interest in industry. I always like that, because I have a lot to do with the industry. First of all, there is the idea that industry is responsible for 80% of emissions. I heard someone say that, but that's not true. The industry, all the industry together, is responsible for over a quarter. I've heard the 12 big companies go over the tongue for 50% in someone's contribution, but that's 17%. Isn't that a little? No, that's not little at all, that's a lot. But it's not 50%, it's 17% for those 12 companies. That is still a great deal of money, not a bad word about it, and there is a great deal of work to be done. In the past, we actually had that tough task, because if you look at how we have been in danger since 1990, you can see that the industry, thanks to non-CO greenhouse gases, is the winner of the race, because of all the tables it has now reduced more than a third, namely 36%, since 1990. There is no other table, no other sector, which even approximates it. In the past, therefore, industry has been given a lot of power. That is no reason to spare them now, by the way. The emissions of more than a quarter are translated into a small third of the task. This means that there should be a reduction of almost 60% compared to 1990 in 2030. That's not crazy, because the average is 49 and the industry does 60. Do we all think that's reasonable? Yeah, because it just came from the PBL calculation. There was no justice behind that, but it is a tough task. That's what it is. I got that on my plate then, because, as you know, the coalition agreement is an order from the Chamber to the government and I was suddenly in it. So you gave me that assignment. That wasn't easy, I say. You start laughing very hard, but I've been quite awake, because I got a solid goal. There was a big cut, a huge cut, and at the same time I was told that this should not lead to higher emissions elsewhere and that we wanted to keep the jobs here. It's very easy to do one of the two. I can keep the jobs here and the emissions, but I won't make it. It is also very easy to do the opposite. Then I'll get the emissions on my slippers, but then the emissions will disappear abroad and the jobs will be taken away. So I thought that was a rather undisputed task of yours. That's what I went out with, and I found the solution that's there. Yeah, that's definitely a CO charge. It is an incentive to make it more sustainable, and I have tried to limit subsidies as much as possible. It's CO-based, also because it's obvious. I've put that out several times. I have always shown myself to be in favour of a prize in public stages, but also in this Chamber. It is also a very easy one, because the polluter pays. Whether you count yourself among the Social Democrats, the Liberals or the stewards, we all find this. The story from here to there is different, but we all come up with it: the polluter pays. Everyone's for that. We must, however, see in this tiny country that we are guarding the borders, so that, as has been said, the jobs do not run across the border with emissions. Now this solution is not chiseled in concrete. I am not going to mention the word taboo anymore, because that makes me completely sick, but of course that solution is not chiseled in concrete in any way. That's why I asked for that level-playing field test. I just want to know what else is possible. If it doesn't work, we'll tighten it up. If it doesn't work, we'll replace it if we have to. Yes, we are open to all kinds of solutions. That is also the answer to Mr Klaver's question: if there are solutions that score better on all the criteria, is that a better solution? Yes, of course, that is by definition a better solution. If we score better on all the criteria, there is a better solution. We're gonna do that, because that's better. Again, nothing is in concrete. That's how we do it. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. That's not only the Planning Office for the Environment that's going to tell us about getting the barrels, but it's also definitely the level playingfield test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u522	Mr Asscher is standing by the interrupting microphone. I actually want to know how far you are, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u523	I'm almost done with the piece of industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u524	Almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u525	Then there is a piece of Urgenda and a piece of built environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u526	I have just sent Mr Klaver away, so if I allow a question from Mr Asscher, I must also allow Mr Klaver's question. I suggest the Minister finish his story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u527	I'm gonna try. I don't think I'm going slow, but that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u528	There's a different response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u529	I'm trying to move fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u530	Mr Asscher has a question about pudding, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u531	I hear it's an administrative question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u532	Yeah, an administrative question. Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u533	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I enjoyed both the weather reports and the recipe of the pudding. My question was about this. In view of the debate as it has been held and the answers given, and knowing that Mr Wiebes is not talking about it: is he prepared to ask the PBL and the CPB to provide the transfer of the CO levy, to which much has been referred, as soon as possible, preferably at the same time as the cabinet plans? Then the debate can be conducted in the way he advocates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u534	It's true that I'm not about it. I want to guard that independence, too, even if it's with my life. But, of course, I am prepared to pass on requests from the Chamber to the PBL, as has happened before. Then it's up to them. I would also like to inform Mr Asscher that I do not wish to discuss the answer of PBL with them. But I assume that the name Asscher at the request will or will not do his job in the offices of the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u535	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u536	So I'm running it through. We can talk about it for a long time, but I'm not gonna do that. I read in the paper in one piece that there are a lot of countries that do this. But no, there aren't. I am on that head with my European colleagues. We're talking about this system. There is a great interest from abroad in the way in which we come to a climate agreement. My European colleagues, from Sweden to France, are listening very openly to what we are doing here, and are sending delegations to hear from us how we are doing this, because everyone has this idea of a level playing field. If we all take a step together, then we know that the level-playingfield problem is only getting smaller, because then we do it together, and that is of course exactly the intention. Those were, I think, the questions about industry. There are still a few questions about the built environment. I'd like to answer that, too. Mr Dijkhoff asks how the heat fund works and how far we are with it. Mr Segers asks: shouldn't there be some kind of window? I think we're gonna fail in the built environment if we don't have three things perfect for each other. The first is that we need to make it possible for people to move around as practically as neutral as housing costs. Then it's about the burdens. The second is that we need to get funding, because even if something is non-housing, it does not mean that large quantities of Dutch people can finance it. That's another question. Charges and funding may sometimes be added together by Mr Baudet, but in a household these are very different things. The third is that people need to be taken care of. People need to understand what to do. That must be told to them. That is why I think that perhaps the word'stop shop' is still too light, I say to Mr Segers. If we open a window, people might not come to that window. The core of the approach is that we ask municipalities to implement a neighbourhood approach. That means we're moving with a district as a whole. This means that we can come up with collective solutions instead of individual solutions. This leads to a reduction in costs. That also leads to the feeling that you do things together in a neighborhood. That also ensures that the municipality will approach people. I try to get in touch with Mr Segers, but Mr Jetten stands for it all the time. I do like eye contact, just like Mr Segers. It's very important. Those municipalities have accepted it as a task and are also proud that they are the government that is nearby and can also tell us what we are going to do with each other. My mother sometimes asks me somewhat impatiently: what am I supposed to do? That is a very good question, but my answer is: you don't have to do so much right now, because you run the risk of switching to the wrong heat solution. You have to do something with your neighborhood and with the municipality; that's the way to do it. That's even more than a window. So it's about taking care of people. People aren't interested in heat techniques. I think that's funny, but most people don't think it's interesting at all, and we shouldn't ask them to do that either. There will never be enthusiasm for heat pumps. There will be a solution that we take for granted. Yeah, there's some stupid stuff in your house, but you end up with a lower energy bill and a more comfortable house. That is the only way to win the Netherlands for this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u537	Were you done with the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u538	I still have the Dijkhoff question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u539	Either you have a son who knows a lot about it, or you have a community that does a lot about it. Of course, it could also be that you don't have either and that you just want to go somewhere for advice, hence my idea of a window. You have to have an address that you can just go to with your question, just because it lives so much and there are so many questions and there are so many concerns about affordability, about carrying capacity, about acceptance and so on. It is nice that Mrs Wiebes has a very smart son, but even more beautiful when citizens can go somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u540	I agree that everyone should be able to go somewhere, but let us not conclude from the debate that some municipalities do nothing or can afford not to do anything. No, the municipalities have their plans ready by 2021 at the latest. Then the neighborhood approach must be there for every neighborhood. That means that every neighborhood knows when it's its turn and that when it's its turn, it also gets active help. It should not be the case that people will never hear and be left to their fate. I do agree that if someone wants to have an action perspective of their own and wants to know what they can do, that window must be there somehow. I will look into the appropriate channels for this, but we are going to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u541	Mr Baudet. The last question, by the way. For you, like Mr Asscher, are through your interruptions, but you may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u542	Thank you. People will have more left when they've isolated their homes, because they have a lower energy bill. I just heard you say that. What kind...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u543	I didn't hear myself say that, but I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u544	Okay, we can take a look back in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u545	But what exactly is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u546	You said: then an entire neighborhood feels... There's dust in your house, you said, and then your house is better insulated and you also notice that you have less costs for heating your home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u547	Less energy charges, yes. We're about to talk about all the burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u548	Okay, that's good. If Mr. Wiebes is gonna say anything else about that, I'm gonna wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u549	There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u550	The heat fund is a very important vehicle in this. We all know that if we only give advice and eventually let people switch, it will be very difficult for a lot of people. We know that. Hence the heat fund as added to the measures. The cabinet's commitment to making the home more sustainable for all groups without increasing the total average living expenses. Yes, investment leads to higher costs here, namely the financial burden. That's cost. At the same time, they lead to a lower energy bill. You'd ideally want to make these things residentially neutral. We set in motion a massive approach with a huge learning curve, but you also want to give those people in the front, of course, that their housing costs remain manageable because, although there is some added value, there is something going down. At the same time, you don't want people to feel forced to break their savings or raise their mortgage. That also sounds like: we give you a problem and have fun with the funding. You want that whole package ready. So you want the care to exist: yes, you are informed about what we are going to do to each other in a sensible way. You want it to be residentially neutral. And you want its funding to be managed in a way that's low-threshold. Then it is my ideal that is ideal now in all the texts for the issue of energy bills that the financing costs can be offset. That means that the energy bill goes down by x by the energy, with x up by the funding and that you actually don't notice anything except that your home is getting more comfortable. Now I'm sketching my ideal image. That fund is aimed at getting as close to that ideal as possible. Then we'll make meters. If we take one of these stones out, I dare say we make less meters. But if we all do it, then I dare say to my mother: don't worry, set up the vacuum cleaner and enjoy a more comfortable house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u551	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u552	I still have Urgenda, about which there are a few questions, and after that I have the flying questions that I have not been able to classify so quickly. Urgenda. Mr Jetten actually says: can we not use this as an acceleration? That's what he's asking for a little familiar road, I think. Because he knows that there are measures that we are putting forward. These may not lead to an increase compared to 2030, but they also accelerate rather than increase. It is also conceivable, of course, that you take measures that you would not otherwise have taken and that you can see as an acceleration. That's clear. Mr Klaver asks whether we should also consider closing four coal-fired power stations. I don't feel the luxury of not considering something. I can't feel it. I dare say that I am wondering whether the measure is very obvious, because a coal-fired power plant measure for 2020 has a road leak that is about the same as the national effect. This means that the climate benefits very little from it. Furthermore, I dare say that it may also be financially problematic. In view of the fact that these coal plants are going to be leaving in the future, it may be complicated to move forward. But the answer is that it can all be considered and that it comes into an integral consideration at the end of April, also in the spring note, but that I don't feel the luxury of not considering something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u553	Was this the answer to Mr Klaver's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u554	This is the answer to Mr Klaver's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u555	One question, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u556	It's about the road leak. Is the Minister aware that it is precisely in Europe that it has been agreed that, for example, if Member States close coal plants, ETS rights can also be withdrawn from the market, so without having to pay for them? The question is then whether this can be done before 2021, so whether we should wait until 1 January 2021 or whether we can use it now. Is the Minister aware of this and does he take this into account in the way he is going to look at what is and is not feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u557	So I do not have the luxury of allowing one way or another to be studied in detail as to what the effect is. All possibilities for this are taken into account. However, I would say to Mr Klaver that the positive news of the measures taken last year with regard to the ETS was taken in 2016 or 2017 thanks to strong pressure from the Netherlands, is that the waterbed effect actually does not exist until 2030, because we are destroying the excess rights. The only drawback of not having that waterbed effect anymore is that the use of it is temporarily not possible. We used to save CO by pushing rights through the shredder. Now that they're already automatically going through the shredder, that doesn't help anymore. But the real answer is that all measures with all the effects will be looked at, because, as I said, I do not feel the luxury of not considering anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u558	Now for the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u559	I still have several questions. Let's see. Mr Klaver asked me whether the malus system's performance test could be as independent as possible. An execution test has already been done with the level of detail that we now know. I don't mind being open about that. There will of course be a further review of the whole package by the PBL. However, it was the PBL that stated just after the summer that tailor-made arrangements with companies could be a basis for a system. In that light, therefore, I will also ask you to take a critical look at that. If that gives us reason to look at it in greater depth, then we will do so. In that sense, I have earned my spurs in the performance that I know you'd better think three times before you start a system than neglecting the execution. I suddenly see eye to eye with Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u560	Don't invite me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u561	I know who my allies are when it comes to execution. That would therefore be my answer to Mr Klaver's question. Then he also raises the question of what measures we will take to bring household energy bills down. Well, we're gonna make it more sustainable. That brings down the power bill. But in all seriousness, we are not looking at purchasing power from the point of view of one item. There is no such thing as energy purchasing power and there is no such thing as care purchasing power or consumer purchasing power. We look at everything together. We don't do that once a year. That is also what we are doing when we pass on the climate agreement. We must, of course, ensure that the picture remains that there is now an increase in purchasing power for all groups, and that this does not go down. But the cabinet does not think it is sensible to look at purchasing power on one aspect. Mrs Marijnissen asks whether we are also prepared to look at a CE Delft CO-taxation system. It's in that level playing field key. We'll see if those systems are in place. I think that we should look at different variants than these, because the CO reduction of the variant that CE Delft has calculated is so minimal that we do not achieve the 14.3. But the answer is: we look at a wide range of different systems. Mr Van Rooijen asks whether we take account of people in coal power stations who are losing their jobs. There are important passages about this in the letter from the cabinet in the sense that that is precisely a point of attention. We're also working with unions to find out where that actually is. This development is taking place between now and 2030. It's not about a lot of jobs in absolute terms, but it's all about people, individuals who think, "Oh, am I suddenly not welcome anymore?" That deserves attention. And if anything deserves attention, so does he. That's the port of the "on the road" letter we sent. Mrs. Ouwehand asks what it costs if we linger. I'm not gonna let that go through because we're not gonna dawdle. I wouldn't know what it's gonna cost if we linger, but the Cabinet doesn't have the plan to stall. The plan is to achieve the goal. Achieving that goal is also a bit the answer to her next question: why not shrink the livestock? We have two tough conditions. The first is that we have to reach the target. It doesn't say how, but we have to make it to the target. For the time being, that target has been well achieved, but we still need to see it all. Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand thinks that the goal is not being achieved at all, but then we will study together the results of the Planning Office for the Environment. Then we will both see that the goal must be achieved. On the way in which there are limited passages in the coalition agreement, but one of them is that technical measures are preferable to volume measures. My colleague Schouten has acted with her table to make that happen. The suggestion that lobby organisations are all in charge in this country is really wrong. The moaning of the tables by the lobby organisations was sometimes heard on our side of the court pond, so I do not think there is much talk of that. The test is the pass-through of the PBL. Did you make it to the target? That's what's at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u562	First, I'd like to respond to the issue of livestock. I didn't ask why we're not gonna do that. Here's what I asked. The previous cabinet chose the flight ahead. It signed the climate agreement in Paris. Then the Party for Animals said: hey, those cattle; maybe you should start on time, because that doesn't work out well with the climate goals. Then the cabinet said: we ask our main advisory body to look at the impact of livestock on climate. Then that body came up with an opinion. The cabinet moved it aside. My question was: why does the cabinet think LTO is coming up with better plans? Those are of course of interest. They receive hundreds of millions of euros of subsidy per year in their accounts. So the question is: why has Rli's opinion been ignored and has it been pushed to the climate table where the stakeholders are at the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u563	Boarding is something else than chasing all kinds of advice. There's all kinds of advice. Some are conflicting, some are not. It is also the political mandate to depart from opinions. The coalition agreement states that technical measures are preferable to volume measures. At the same time, there is a strong objective for this sector. That goal must be achieved. The impression based on the work of the table is that that can be achieved, but we will see. If Mrs Ouwehand says 'if the goal is not achieved, we still have to make things up', then I fully agree with her. The goal will be achieved; that is central. We didn't commit to resources, we committed to purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u564	So when the Chamber asked and pointed out the probable need for something to do with livestock farming in view of the climate targets, when it said "begin in time, give farmers the chance to switch and make sure it doesn't become last minute," the Cabinet asked for an opinion, just to get rid of the discussion in the Chamber. Why else would you ask such advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u565	If you ask for advice, do you commit to taking any advice in advance? I don't know. I do not know how often it happens that we simply say in advance that we are going to follow an advice and therefore we are going to take every advice. Let me put it this way. The coalition agreement is the mandate of this Chamber to the government. It says that one has priority over the other. Then I do not think that I should subordinate Parliament's mandate to an opinion that has been requested, certainly not a priori. This is what my colleague Schouten did in the assessment. We're gonna see if that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u566	It is significant that the cabinet does not want to calculate what it will cost if we do not act on time. I'm not asking for this advice for nothing. I do this because the Environment Council, the main consultative body for the government, says: it is inevitable; if you wait longer, it becomes more annoying for everyone, for the taxpayer, for the government and not least for the farmers themselves. And the cabinet doesn't even want to figure out what it's going to cost if you still have to intervene. My last question is about 2°C. The minister's gonna act like we're gonna be there, as long as we stay within 2°C. Will the Minister acknowledge here that at 2°C, compared to the 1.5°C that the IPCC is talking about, the world is unviable, that it is an additional loss of 20 000 billion worldwide if we stay at that 2°C, and that we actually have to go to that 1.5°C?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u567	I can't check the numbers from here. I am not taking over the terminology, but Mrs Ouwehand's central point is. No, I'm not standing here saying that we think 2°C is enough. I stand here supported by a coalition agreement that says that 49% corresponds to 2°C; the ambition is to go to 55% and that corresponds to 1.5°C. But we do recognise the government agreement that we will have to do with other countries, either with Europe or with a leading group. There's an active lobby for that. That is what we are actively approaching other countries for, precisely on the basis of the conviction that what we are doing now should be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u568	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u569	Mr Dijkhoff reminds me of a Belgian system, to which I will draw my colleague who is working on it. That's colleague Van Veldhoven. Thanks for the suggestion. Mr Asscher asks whether we can make quick reconnaissances on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u570	Before you proceed, Mr Dijkhoff has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u571	To draw her attention to this, I can also send her an app, but I would like to hear through his colleague's minister whether something like this can happen in the Netherlands and what the advantages and disadvantages are. I would therefore also ask the Court to respond to this method of tender rather than subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u572	I'll bring it to her attention in that way: a warm thought, may I put it that way? Pumps with a feedback. Mr. Dijkhoff will hear about that. We are very curious if there will be 20,000 unsaleable electric cars in the port of Antwerp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u573	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u574	Can the reconnaissance to check-in start soon? There is also clear language in the coalition agreement. If that's my job, then I don't see any possibilities for this, as I said. But Mr Asscher did have some serious concerns about the electric car. They will also end up with the same Secretary of State through the Acts. Maybe Mr Dijkhoff's question is the answer to Mr Asscher's concerns. With Mr Stoffer, I hope that after 13 March we can have fair debates with a view to 'doing'. As far as I am concerned, those were the answers to the questions as I wrote them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u575	One question I owed you. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u576	Mr Wiebes, I would also like to ask you the question that I just asked the Prime Minister, but which I did not get an answer to. The climate agreement also states that this is something you have just mentioned; although you did not do so very explicitly, you did mention in particular houses that need to be isolated and have a different heat system and so on. Do you have a rough estimate of what kind of amounts will be involved as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u577	Per house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u578	Per house or per neighborhood or per clustering of houses. These are 1.5 million homes that must have been through that transition by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u579	There are quite a few different houses. Certainly the concept of "neighborhood" is not a single unit of account. We did pilots at first. When we didn't even master that profession, it came to many tens of thousands of euros per house. There are cases where in the first pilots for simple homes of some decades old it was more than €70,000 per house. Meanwhile, the thought is that this can be much cheaper. There are parties that even say that it can be much cheaper. The specialists at the table provide that this can also be non-residential in the foreseeable future. In the beginning, this may require a small back-up from the government, but over time it should earn itself back. That is the ideal situation, because that means that the money that households are now spending on energy-supplying countries is being spent on people who are just working here to improve our homes and make them more comfortable. So that's the same amount of money, so housing costs are neutral. The exact amounts depend very much on which point in time you take. There are different expectations about that and there are very different types of houses. Anyone can see that a house in the middle of a flat has a very different cost than a detached house. The term "house" is too woolly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u580	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u581	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u582	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u583	No, no. No, you can't. You still have a second term. I'll see if the Minister has answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u584	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u585	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u586	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister talked about the scope of the sentence and that the purpose is to follow and achieve its purpose. I thought it was all messy. That's why I'm putting forward a motion to just get that really sharp. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 25% in 2020 compared to 1990 is a result obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u587	Mr. Chairman. An independent execution test on the bonus-malus system is important. The PBL was just mentioned, but it's not just about the PBL and not just about RVO. It's about the experts who really know what this looks like. I'm just reminding the IRS how important it is to know if we can do this. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to achieve the climate objectives, it is important that the measures set out in the Climate Agreement are properly implemented;]] [[calls on the Government to have an independent implementation test carried out on the climate agreement bonus-malus system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u588	Mr. Chairman. My party has put forward a proposal to close four out of five coal plants. This is the way to reach the Urgenda target by 2020. I think it is important for the cabinet to include this in the overall assessment. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the closure of four out of five coal plants produces a climate gain of 12 megatons of CO;]] [[whereas there are, unfortunately, few other options for reaching the Urgenda target;]] [[noting that coal plant owners have indicated their intention to discuss the early closure of their power stations;]] [[calls on the Government to include the closure of coal plants in the inventory of the measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u589	Mr. Chairman. A few facts. Does the Earth heat up hugely? No. It is 0.8°C since the beginning of the industrial revolution in 1860. Is there so much more CO coming? No. In 1800 the atmosphere was full of 0.03% CO; now it is 0.041%, rounded 0.04%. Is it mostly man-made? The answer is no. 97% is natural CO Is that mainly because of the Netherlands? The answer is no. The Netherlands is responsible for 0.35% of global CO emissions. Does what the Netherlands does lead to huge results when it comes to reducing that already few CO? No. This leads to a temperature drop of 0.0007% in the Netherlands, four zeros and then a 7. On behalf of the State, the national attorney also said so in an appeal brought against Urgenda. I quote: "It has no measurable effect on climate change." Does it cost a lot of money, or is it really cheap? Yeah, it costs a lot of money. In the middle of the night on 14 December 2017, during the budget of Economic Affairs, Minister Wiebes himself said: "It costs us 1% to 3% of economic growth for 30 years." He said, and I quote: "We see that in inflation, in rent, in taxes, in the cost of products." Those are literal quotes from Minister Wiebes. In all this time, in 30 years, it costs between 200 and 600 billion. Is there some kind of scare-making? Yeah, we're talking about scare-making. I have here a list for me of a page with all scary. Let me just take one from Mr Al Gore, mentioned here earlier by a colleague. He suggested in his film An Inconvenient Truth that sea level would rise by 6 meters in the near future. Twelve years later, that sea level rose by three centimeters. Mr. Chairman. This is money knocking, ideological money knocking, which is going to be left-wing or right-wing, whether through businesses or through the citizens, by those VVD patters to the citizens. We shouldn't do that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate madness, on the left or right, will hit citizens hard in their pockets;]] [[Considering that climate policy is priceless and nonsensical;]] [[calls on the government to pass the climate agreement through the shredder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u590	Mr. Chairman. I would like to table a motion on the energy bill, because we do not think it is fair for the energy bill for people to rise by an average of nearly €300 next year, while we are still in the middle of a debate on what the measures will be for large companies. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the large polluting companies are being spared by this cabinet;]] [[noting that the household's energy bill is booming, forcing people to sit in the cold;]] [[believes that more should be paid not for households but for polluting large consumers;]] [[calls on the government to reduce people's energy bills by allowing large consumers to pay their fair share,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u591	Mr. Chairman. I would particularly like to thank Minister Wiebes for the answers to our questions. You know our position on purchasing power and the effects of the climate on it. We will therefore be very critical of the payments made on 13 March. I have a point for Minister Wiebes. If he'll just listen... Minister Wiebes... There was indeed only one group in the Netherlands in the 1970s: the modal worker. I was often asked as Secretary of State: who is that? My answer and that of my fellow Members is that I do not know who was the first to use that answer in the cabinet: that is the non-existent Dutchman, because it is a statistical concept. We welcome the Minister's commitment to take as differentiated a view as possible and to what he said about the importance of the feasibility of measures, which I believe we share together. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need to take major steps to reduce CO emissions in order to achieve the climate targets, and that CO pricing can make an important contribution to this;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, the improvement of the European Emissions Trading System (ETS), inter alia, by introducing a minimum price for energy rights, and to inform the Court of Justice in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u592	Thank you, Mr President. The Animal Party is in favour of lowering the electoral age to 16 years, partly because of this type of problem. If you're 16 now, you're gonna have to go on this planet for another 70 years. And the decisions are made by people who have shorter time. We don't think that's a good idea. We have not yet succeeded in reducing the electoral age, but we can change the rules here in the Chamber. We think it's high time. We have made a proposal to the Board of the Chamber to ensure the right of young people to speak. We wait for that discussion, but if that turns out to be negative, then we have a motion, so that we can rule on it in the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber does not have a direct right of consultation, as is customary, for example, for municipal councils, and in a number of cases is even required by law;]] [[whereas political decisions are taken which concern young people directly, but on which they have no say in elections because they do not have the right to vote up to the age of 18;]] [[points out that young people should have access to the right of consultation on issues that have direct, long-term and serious consequences for them, such as climate policy;]] [[invites the Bureau to organise this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u593	Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, at the request of the Rutte II Cabinet, the Environment and Infrastructure Council (Rli) concluded that, in order to achieve the climate objectives, a shrinkage of livestock is inevitable;]] [[noting that the Rli also concludes that postponing this inevitable measure is unwise, both for farmers and for the ultimate social costs;]] [[noting that in the current climate agreement, the opinion on the reduction of livestock levels has been ignored;]] [[calls on the Government to add the recommendations of the Rli report to the inventory of measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u595	Thank you. Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u596	Mr President, thank you. I think that this debate has really brought about one thing, namely that the CO levy, which seemed to be dead at the time of the presentation of the climate agreement, has turned out to be very alive. This is going to help achieve a fair and realistic climate policy. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that measures are now needed to pass on a clean and viable planet to the next generations;]] [[whereas the draft climate agreement does have a bonus-malus system for industry but does not have a CO levy;]] [[calls on the Government to consider a CO levy as an equivalent option in the industry's reduction statement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u597	Mr President, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purchase of a new electric car is limited to a few persons;]] [[Whereas electric cars are already being over-subsidised while train tickets and normal cars are becoming more expensive;]] [[calls on the government to cancel the €6,000 grant and to spend that money on public transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u598	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u599	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u600	I continue to think that curious hide-and-seek is being played here about the costs. I'll take an example of that. This is on page 29 of the climate agreement and concerns the 1.5 million homes that will have to be completely climate-neutrally grown in the next ten years. If you consider that, if you do it all perfectly, you can save €500 to €600 per year in gas costs, then such a renovation, if you want to do that cost-neutrally as Mr Wiebes says, can not cost more than perhaps €5,000 or €6,000 to €7,000. That's really unthinkable to do. That's just the big point that's left here. It's priceless and people hide behind it. People don't want to know. I have a motion. Mr Jetten said: let the figures be taken into account. I would very much like to be prepared to do so. I would also like to suggest that we do the opposite, namely that we have another body, the General Court of Auditors, to pass on what the PBL comes up with. Hence my motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the General Court to calculate the total cost of the climate agreement both for the government and for the citizen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u601	If you have multiple instances looking at this, you have a better chance of getting a good insight into the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u602	Thank you. This was the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u603	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u604	Mr. Chairman. Eleven motions have been tabled, nine of which are addressed to the government. I'm trying to get through it as fast as I can. The motion in part No. 270 calls for a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to be made a result obligation. As the Prime Minister has just said, the scope of the judgment is an obligation to achieve results. This motion is not about the verdict at all, but sets an independent goal for the cabinet. Our independent goals are in the coalition agreement. This is a result obligation from the judgment, but does not constitute an independent income obligation for the cabinet. We have never intended to do this, and I must therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u605	Mr. Klaver, a brief comment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u606	Definitely about the motion, Mr. Chairman. So if I add to the motion some considerations relating to the Urgendavonnis..............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u607	If Mr Klaver says that the scope of the ruling, a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, is an obligation to achieve results, that judgment is Chamber. "The scope of the judgment is an obligation to result": that judgment shall be Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u608	I really don't understand what that means, so I'm gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u609	All right, you've got till Tuesday. Then the motion to part No. 271.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u610	I could almost dictate it. The motion in part No. 271 calls on the Government to have an independent execution test carried out. Yeah, maybe with some explanation. I have just explained that the Planning Office for the Environment is indeed reviewing the implementation and that this is also independent. A call is actually being made to see if this performance expertise can be put on more heavily. I'd like to try to do that. I suggest I take him over and let the Chamber know how I do it. I cannot say that yet, but I think it is an important motion, I would like to implement it, I will proceed with it and I will let the Chamber know in what way I guarantee both the independence and the robustness of that test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u611	I'll check first if anyone has any objections to taking over the motion in part No. Mr Klaver and Mr Dijkhoff. The PVV objects to takeover. Then the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u612	Then the verdict becomes Chamber. Then the motion to part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I have already said that I cannot afford not to list any of the options, so I can imagine taking this one too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u613	This also raises the question of whether anyone objects. That's the case. Then the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u614	Judgment Room it will be. The motion in part No. 273 instructs me to pass the climate agreement through the shredder. There is no climate agreement yet, so I could request that the motion be held, but since that does not work, I will advise against the motion, because that immediately gives the clarity that this Chamber is asking for. Then the motion to part No. 274. It calls on the government to reduce the energy bill and so on. No, we do purchasing power management annually and overall. We don't specifically do that about the energy bill. Should it be the case that other forms of CO taxation are introduced with such a refund lock, we will see it later. I need the motion in part no. 274, so it's not advisable. The motion in part No. 275 calls for an EU-wide improvement of ETS, including a minimum price for the energy sector, a system that we currently have in the Netherlands. I propose that this motion be left to the discretion of the House. The motion in part No. 276 is not addressed to the government. The motion in part No. 277 calls for the recommendations to be added to the inventory of measures. There is very clear language about this in the coalition agreement. We are now in the process of getting a pass-through and then we will see again. The motion in part No. Thus, 277 is something I must dissuade. The motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u615	Before you proceed, Mrs Ouwehand has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u616	I don't understand it so well. Just now there was another motion on the closure of coal power stations, and then the Minister said: I can't afford the luxury of excluding measures, so I'm taking this with me. I am actually asking for exactly the same thing: include the recommendations in that report in the inventory of measures. So I don't really understand why this motion is not recommended, when, just in the case of a similar request, the scope was: I can't afford the luxury to close anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u617	Well, it seemed to me that this motion is not at all about the inventory of measures for Urgenda. This motion seems to be entirely about the climate agreement, and in that context I do not intend to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u618	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u619	The motion in part No. 278 requests that the CO levy be considered as an equivalent option. I would like to refer here to the debate, in which I said that the transfer also provides an insight into other forms of a CO levy than the CO levy that the cabinet is already considering. So not only are there no taboos in this respect, but it is an active pass-through that we have already started before the recess. But "equal" denies the situation. The cabinet certainly has a preference or opinion. It is in the documents, and in that sense there is no equivalence. It is true that what is not right is being replaced, and that what is not working is being improved. All forms are passed on. But equal is just one step too far for me. That is why I do not recommend this motion, but all the commitments made in the debate remain valid. We're going to look at the pieces after March 13th. The motion in part No. 279 is about the grant. No. Let me put it this way: everyone is eagerly looking forward to the passing on of all these measures, and to the feasibility and financing of all these measures. But right now, I'm not suggesting that, because we'll wait for those credit transfers and then we'll see. And the motion in part No. 280 is not addressed to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u620	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-15.u621	That concludes this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, the MPs, the officials, the staff, the clerks, the stenography service and everyone who has followed this debate. I'm closing the meeting.
