ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u1	The next item is the debate on Climate and Energy Exploration 2019: KEV. I didn't know that abbreviation, I have to be honest, but that could be me. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. Thank you for joining us. We have 11 speakers from the Chamber. Each speaker has four minutes' speaking time. The first speaker is Mr Kops of the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the minister just got off the plane, yes, the plane had gotten off when he came back from the Madrid climate summit, he said: "What have households been getting in their pockets for the last 20 years? Almost nothing." At the same time, however, it is the same minister of the same VVD who keeps burdening citizens with towering energy bills. Today we have a debate on climate and energy exploration. That's the name of the report. Which of the people who are sitting at home watching this debate gets better, will that help? What people really care about is affordability, or rather the pricelessness of their energy. But what do we read in the report? The evolution of the average household energy account is not included in this KEV. That is easy, while energy poverty in the Netherlands is a fact. More than 650,000 households can barely pay the energy bill to no longer. This number is likely to rise to 1.5 million households by 2030. But the minister said it wasn't so bad. Yesterday, in response to Parliamentary questions from the PVV, he wrote that "The Netherlands scores relatively well on affordability of the energy bill in a European perspective and has relatively little energy poverty." 650,000 households living in energy poverty, doesn't the Minister think so? In the climate and energy exploration is really something else. In this we see that the prices of electricity in Germany are much higher than in other European countries and in France much lower. And what's that all about? Quite simply: Germany is currently experiencing a disastrous energy turnout with windmills, solar panels and the Atomausstieg, while the French have plenty of nuclear power. Mr. Chairman. Energy is a basic requirement, but this cabinet has made it a very expensive luxury product with its very expensive energy transition and CO-obsession according to German example. Yes, Chairman, a CO-obsession. And what do we read about it in the climate and energy exploration? These CO targets are not even met, despite the many billions wasted on them. 49% in 2030 was the intention, but it is not going to work. 14% of renewable energy by 2020 was also intended, but it is not going to succeed. Expensive amateurism, that's it. But in spite of this climate change policy and the billions wasted on it, it must all be worse and even faster. See that horrible European Green Deal of climate hippie Timmermans. By 2050, the whole EU must be climate neutral. There will be a European climate law. Loading posts must be placed, trees must be planted, CO emissions must eventually go to zero and name it all. This ultimately costs EUR 260 billion per year; EUR 260 billion per year. Then the question is: how is the Minister going to prevent the energy bill of households or any other account from rising by one cent as a result of this madness at EU level? Mr. Chairman. So the climate and energy exploration, the report we are discussing today, can actually go straight through the shredder. Because all this EU climate policy, thanks to Mr Timmermans, is going to be fine. If you think that with that terrible climate agreement of Mr Nijpels and co you have had everything, well, not so. The Timmermans of this world like to do a little more on top. Mr. Chairman. There is only one conclusion that can be drawn: we must get rid of this terrible climate policy as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Harbers of the VVD. There is another question from Mr Sienot. Short pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u4	Short point, Mr. Chairman. The PVV always chooses to look away from the climate problem, while by far the majority of Dutch think the climate problem is very important. I share with the PVV the concerns about the rising energy bill. We can get very angry about that, and we always do, but that doesn't solve the problem. You can't group the climate problem. You can't think that out of here with angry stories. There is, and we have to come up with a solution together with an affordable bill. When are you going to mean something to all those Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u5	Firstly, on the rising energy bill: it is good that Mr Sienot shares with us those concerns and the concerns of so many people. But I do not believe, of course, that Mr Sienot is interested in that. He's part of this cabinet. He and his party share responsibility for this ever-increasing energy bill. This year, 2019, it has increased by an average of €334. That is a consequence of the policy of your cabinet, Mr. Sienot. You are and you were in a position to do something about it, but you didn't do it. The concerns you're expressing are worth nothing at all. Those are for the stage. Mr. Chairman. Yes, look, I can quote the Delta Commissioner, Mr Glass, for example. It's crystal clear. He recently gave an interview in De Telegraaf. He specifically says: "Does the sea level in the Netherlands rise faster? No." An expected rise of 20 centimeters per century. That's this: 20 centimeters. We've seen that for centuries. He says, "Should we be worried? No." He says, "Are we safe? Yes, no reason to panic." Then I wonder where the panic at D66 came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u6	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u7	Well, Mr. Chairman, I asked a question and I didn't get an answer. First of all, what Mr Kops of the PVV mentions here is a fine example of reassurance. But in the end, what is the scientific consensus? It's much wider and says we have to worry. We were in Madrid this week. There it was confirmed once again by numerous scientists that it is just serious. That problem is being thought away. That is what this cabinet is trying to do. I'm gonna ask you again. You can't turn that problem away and just get excited about the rising energy bill. You have to let those two go together. If you do that skillfully, and I challenge this cabinet, you can actually raise that energy bill. I would like to ask the PVV: just work together and let's see what we can think of for all those people who want to isolate their homes cheaply and want cheap solar panels on the roof, because that's what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u8	Fine. A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u9	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A brief answer, dear. Collaboration is probably not going to work, because we need to get rid of climate policy, because it is also the cause of the rising energy bill. It's as simple as that. Once again, I have not heard Mr Sienot say exactly what the climate problem is. The Climate Summit in Madrid, yes... That is yet another climate summit. At the end of the 1980s, it was said by the UN that if global warming were not brought under control in 2000, the rising sea level would wash away entire countries. That didn't happen. In the late 1980s it was also said that whole nations could be wiped off the face of the earth. That hasn't happened yet. Ten years ago it was said that we only have 96 months left to save the planet, otherwise there will be irreparable damage. None of that happened either, so please stop scaring me. The fact is that this energy bill is rising as a result of climate policy. We need to get that power bill down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u10	Fine. We're going to see Mr. Harbers of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u11	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u12	No, no, it's not a point of order. You just want to arrange a third interruption. Prove me wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u13	To be honest, I think it is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u14	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u15	This is where with one wipe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u16	That's just content. What you're about to make is not a point of order. It's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u17	... put aside a whole bunch of science, while climate models have been indicating for 50 years that there is indeed a problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u18	So that is not a point of order. That's a substantive part 3 of your interruption. We're gonna listen to Mr. Harbers. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u19	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. While the PBL indicates in the climate and energy exploration that not all objectives are yet being achieved, the VVD reads precisely that we are on the right track, especially considering that some of the measures already announced have not yet been taken into account. At the same time, there was an unpleasant surprise for next year. 1 November, the PBL wrote that it expected 23% CO2 reduction. Today, six weeks later, it is announced that the current situation is different. It's not about people being wrong: it's possible. But I think it's a bit gejojo. The important thing is that we can barely steer. In this respect, I would argue that the PBL, similar to, for example, the way in which the Central Planning Bureau operates, should use an extremely reliable and predictable method of estimates in the coming years, with the assumptions used. For now, the question remains to the cabinet which conclusions are drawn from today's forecast. The VVD continues to apply: we take sensible no-regret measures and do not pull unthought-out sprints to an intermediate goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u20	I hear Mr Harbers talking about an unpleasant surprise. Well, it's certainly unpleasant, but a surprise isn't really, because I've pointed out here before, along with others, that realization figures show other things than a model. The model's pretty good, but it's not perfect. But my question to Mr Harbers is as follows. We see that we are dealing with an Urgendagat of 9 to 10 megatons. That is about the same order of magnitude as the gap we are still seeing when it comes to the 2030 Climate Agreement. Does Mr Harbers not think that the cabinet should now work on an additional package, both to get Urgenda and to ensure that we start with a plan that will reduce 49% by 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u21	There's a lot of questions in here. The first relates to next year. Around the treatment of the Urgendawet we have already indicated that we simply continue to follow a sensible route and see if we are on track. So that's exactly what we're going to do in 2020. Then there is the 2030 target. There is, of course, a bigger gap there, and we already know that from the model..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Think of car mobility, where a number of measures will only be taken in 2024. That is why this is not taken into account. I really think 2030 is too far to draw the conclusion today that we also need to adapt it. I would like to point out that the climate law is a very good safeguard system, which can be adjusted every two or five years. It's that rest we have to keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u22	Mr Harbers correctly reproduces the answer from the cabinet, but we still have an actual and serious situation. The court ruling is even further out of the picture and we are facing a nitrogen crisis. It is possible to introduce instruments and take measures that address both nitrogen problems and greenhouse gas emissions. Now is the time, and I hope that Mr Harbers will step away from the present system, which is constantly being cited, and that he will seize this moment to achieve both goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u23	No, Mr President, because that would imply that the climate law, which was introduced by GroenLinks himself, has to be put back on track. What I just mentioned is the security system that is in the Climate Code. And yes, on top of that, you can take additional measures or accelerate measures that bring the goal closer. We have also recently supported this. For the rest, we just need to see where we end up in 2020. I would point out to Mr Van der Lee that we too have supported motions to see what you can do wisely to bring the goal closer next year. At the same time, I also know that if the hole was 8 megatons, you wouldn't get that one-two-three by 2020. I don't argue for those kind of intermediate sprints. We're gonna have to keep our heads up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u24	The letter indicates that the Urgenda target has gotten even further away. The PBL says that 20% to 21% is feasible. Now the PBL also makes a statement about the bandwidth: it falls within the range of the KEV, between 19% and 26%. That doesn't mean that the bandwidth in the KEV is exactly the same. My question to Mr Harbers: does this new calculation of the OJ 20% to 21% is feasible also affect the range within which it needs to be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u25	No, because Mr Van Raan himself points out that this bandwidth has not been adjusted. The KEV says two things. In the KEV the PBL writes: we predict 23% and around that there is a bandwidth. Now comes the announcement that it is a bit lower, but within the bandwidth. I can't see they're adjusting the bandwidth, I just see they're adjusting the prognosis. Anyone can say: we have all said that. Some people pointed out that the realization is different. But we have a PBL here for a reason. I've been a financial spokesman for years. Then you can rely on the estimates of the Central Planning Bureau. You can base your policy on that. I would argue that, in the future, we should take the PBL assessment as a starting point for policy in the same way, at regular intervals in the year. You cannot come up with new policies every six weeks because the current situation has changed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u26	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u27	Rounding up. Does Mr Harbers agree with the Animal Party that precisely because you see that it is disappointing and that the bandwidth is actually moving to the left, we are going to wait and see that it is much better from all kinds of precautionary principles to take the upper limit and not the lower limit, to which the Cabinet holds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u28	No, it's wiser to take the prognosis. The forecast in the KEV, published by the PBL on 1 November, says literally: "We expect 23% reduction in 2020 compared to 1990." The second sentence is: "There's a bandwidth around it." A prognosis is just one number in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u29	I can, to some extent, follow and justify Mr Harbers' speech. We have agreed on a certain security system. I agree with him that we should not operate in an incident-controlled manner, but more fundamentally we see that the PBL says that much still needs to be done to achieve that 49%. As you can see, the Environment and Infrastructure Council says that there is a need for stronger government control. The VVD is a party of action. How does Mr Harbers view this? Should there be more control? Do you need a little bit of a toothbrush?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u30	You'll be surprised. In a few moments, I'm going to argue in favour of a few sectors in which we need to keep a close eye on things. In general, I think we've agreed on the bail. For all measures for all sectors, it is now clear who is going to take the initiative. This means, for the next two years, that the transition plans need to be further developed in many areas. That's what the PBL himself says. That's what the Council of State says. You cannot have everything ready five months after the conclusion of the Climate Agreement. Does that seem a little messy? Yes, it will, because now all these plans have to be puzzled side by side. If the sectors are doing well, if the Empire takes a good look at it and if the municipalities take up their task, I am convinced that within one, two years you will all have your transition plans in order and therefore know how to go towards 2030 and then towards 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u31	I agree with Mr Harbers that it is somewhat chaotic, but that is inherent in this phase of the energy transition. These are all separate measures which are not yet very systematic. But shouldn't you be taking better care of governance? Shouldn't we have a director, trial counselor or domptor, whatever we're gonna call it, who's gonna lead the parties in the right direction? Shouldn't that be reinforced further?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u32	Well, I don't know. I do not think that this is the time to decide whether governance needs to be changed. We've just been on the road for five months with the Climate Agreement. There is a Minister of Energy and Climate who directs it. All kinds of sub-contracts have been laid down, sometimes in other ministries, sometimes in provinces, municipalities or industries. I'd just like to give this a chance first. It is only when we should conclude on the basis of the facts that the direction or governance may need to be changed somewhere that is the right time. I think it's too early for that now. Because, Mr President, I think it is especially time that we created peace around the energy and climate issues, so that companies and citizens will know where they stand in the near future and can plan at an appropriate pace. It will require a reliable government. The recent policy change around the ISDE grant has surprised a number of homeowners uncomfortable. I recently received a lot of distressing reports about situations where construction has already started and the heat pumps have been ordered, but the delivery takes place after 1 January, which means that the promised subsidy can no longer be applied for. Is there also a transitional arrangement available for these people? It's already been hinted at in the publications. If necessary, I have another motion on this point. For many parts of the Climate Agreement, we need to get off the ground quickly. In doing so, I highlight three elements that need to be taken up vigorously and on top of which the Empire must be: CCS, hydrogen and infrastructure for industry. These three are important because investment in industry has been pushing forward their shadow for years. Already investment and maintenance projects are being prepared for the second half of the twenties. Timely clarity about the associated infrastructure will then be crucial in order to be able to use these moments to build in the investments. For CO capture and storage, the main projects Porthos and Athos have been formed, but since CCS is crucial in achieving the objectives and given the excellent location of the Netherlands for this, we must hurry. This applies equally to the timely connection of industry to an increased electricity grid and hydrogen lines. I would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to achieve the desired speed and perhaps direction. Mr. Chairman. Industry and business are also part of the growth strategy that the Minister unfolded last week. We must be aware that the Council of State and the Central Planning Bureau indicate that the costs of the Climate Agreement do not exceed 0.5% of GDP. I do not think we should accept that. So, where the Council of State recommends that the costs and benefits of the energy transition be better reflected in the coming period, I ask the Minister not only what he is going to do with this opinion, but also whether he intends to work out how we will shape the promise of the Climate Agreement to shape developments in such a way that the investments and earnings in the Netherlands will be met and thus, preferably, increase the earning capacity by at least 0.5% of GDP. After all, we are doing the transition to maintain our prosperity and make it a earning model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u33	Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How many interruptions can I have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u35	I hadn't put a ceiling on it yet, but if you crave a maximum, this was your last interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u36	Then I'll sit down again, Mr. Chairman! No, I only need two. I notice that the VVD has a very different attitude once a certain number or percentage is about CO reduction. That's what you see in this contribution. Then it's "Well, let's have a policy and operate wisely." But when it comes to euros and there is a shortage, the VVD is on top of it and is fast. I would like to ask Mr Harbers, perhaps with one interruption, whether it is not right that we should do it so that we can work both with the CO reduction and ensure that we get all the numbers behind the euro signs right. 'Cause those two are going hand in hand. That's what the experts explain to us so well every time, including financial experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u37	Firstly, I do not share the review made by Mr Sienot of my contribution. If his statement is that CO reduction should go in a way that is also financially efficient, cost-effective, then I wholeheartedly share it. Then Mr Sienot finds me by his side. But I'm setting the bar much higher. I do not want to put down the fact that planning agencies estimate that the energy transition will ultimately cost us half a percent of GDP. I think we can do better than that. If we can live up to our ambitions and if we can actually make use of techniques and methods devised in the Netherlands elsewhere in the world, if this leads to products that can compete sustainably in the long term with other parts of the world, and if we put that alongside the strategy for earning in the future, then the GDP of the Netherlands would not have to fall at all on the basis of the energy transition. But I also think it is our ambition to ensure that at least that half-percent of GDP that it would cost us is not what I say, but that is what the planning agencies say about running in and making up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u38	Rounding up. Then I notice that we would very much like to let it go hand in hand together. That's great. I would like to add that we should start today. That leaning back that sometimes speaks out of the contribution of the VVD, I would really like to oppose that. I would like to call for an active attitude and get to work now, because then you will take the most profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u39	What kind of question is this? Did I put the word ambition twice in my answer and then I would sit back? I merely advocate that we do it in the most sensible way, and that is also the spirit that breathes the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u40	I'm happy with that ambition. I also hear the Minister again, who always stresses that we can develop new earning models if we are leading the way and that this is good for the Dutch economy. At the same time, I would like to challenge Mr Harbers to immediately pick up that glove. In the climate and energy exploration we also read that the industry emitted 4.7 megatons extra compared to the previous estimate. Does Mr Harbers agree with me that it is wise, for example, to fill in the CO levy not on 14.3 megatons, but on 19 megatons? Then you also create additional pressure on innovation and even additional resources to finance projects such as Athos and Porthos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u41	No. It is not for nothing that I have argued that we also need peace, that we need to recalibrate the targets at the appointed moments, so that companies and citizens can start making their plans in the meantime. Nothing is more annoying for industry, if you want to keep it in the Netherlands, if you want to keep the jobs, to deviate from the agreed targets six months after the Climate Agreement. In the Climate Agreement, 14.3 megatons were agreed. This is what industry is focusing on, and they need to be clear on a multiannual basis. You won't even make it if we don't start planning with industry right now how we will ensure the necessary hydrogen infrastructure and electricity infrastructure in the second half of the twenties. Maintenance stops are already planned in 2023, 2025 and beyond. You have to be able to use it. That's what you need to be clear about right now. The industry has that clarity with the planned plans of the CO levy and the SDE++.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u42	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u43	Combining peace and ambition remains a complicated one, especially when it comes to: where do you start? If you don't start with a plan that leads to 49%, you're gonna keep running after yourself. I don't want to take anything away from the systematic and the safeguards in the Climate Act, but you have to start with a plan that achieves the goal. We're not doing that right now, so my call is: Now get started with a plan that reaches the goal. Then you can also make the acceleration possible when it comes to industry, innovation and new earning models.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u44	I think we have a difference of opinion here. I also think that a contradiction is outlined by Mr Van der Lee, who does not exist, namely that peace and ambition would not go together. My position is that we are best able to achieve the agreed ambitions by at least sticking to the established plans and creating peace there. I think that you will actually achieve ambition rather than building ambition on ambition every six months, which in the meantime creates headlessness, prevents people from moving and companies from making their investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u45	I heard Mr Harbers say that he is behind this whole energy transition, because it gives us prosperity and a earning model. From my perspective, I would like to put care of this earth in addition. Anyway, I'm sure that will be further in your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u46	Also for clean air. Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u47	Very good to hear. If we look at how we set up the SDE+ and the SDE++, does he think that we give enough room for that competitive advantage, that earning model? The SDE++ will soon be completely redesigned to cost-efficiency and these new innovative techniques will be pushed out. I would very much like a response from Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u48	Firstly, Mrs Dik-Faber and I are both waiting for the impact of the SDE++ to come next year. And yes, I think a few things are important: cost efficiency, because that means that you get the most reduction per euro and also enough room for the techniques of the future. This does not mean that this must be infinite, because a technique that has not yet been developed is not yet cost-effective. But there must be enough room in it so that these techniques can reach full maturity. If we let those two go together, we'll have a very sensible SDE++ arrangement in a year, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u49	I absolutely see this as an opening. What gets in the way of my group is the enormous subsidy for the burning of wood. There are billions going to the biomass surplus. It is not innovative and does not involve employment. My group would very much like to see us look at the SDE subsidies. Can we not look much more at techniques that are perhaps still small and contribute minimally now, but which in the end are much smarter and will also contribute to the real energy transition? Can I see this as an opening of the VVD to debate this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u50	There are a lot of questions in this too. On the one hand, you have the subsidies that have already been given. I think the government should be a reliable partner in that. As far as wood is concerned, I very much agree with the lecture given by the Minister during the discussion of the budget. Indeed, I look forward most to developing all kinds of new techniques that can provide our heat and energy in an even better way in the future. But I think that the mechanism that we offer from a political point of view should be one within which the market can do its job and in which the good-looking buttons at the universities and the companies that come up with new techniques can proceed. It is not for politics to prescribe techniques, but it is for the conditions under which they can be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u51	It is remarkable that Mr Harbers wants to get the market back to work, because that market has so far completely failed in terms of CO reduction. That's just demonstrable. But I am glad that Mr Harbers is talking about peace and ambition. I would like to try to establish when the next time is, according to Mr Harbers. With regard to the VVD, given the rhythm of the Climate Act, could there be talk in 2022 about strengthening ambitions? 'Cause that's the rhythm that's being watched. Is my assumption of 2022 correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u52	I think it's at the KEV at the end of 2021, because that's what it's supposed to be. As far as Mr Van Raan's introduction is concerned, he found it remarkable that I quote the market. Frankly, I have few examples in world history where the opposite of the market economy has led to a better society. So, for lack of better, I shall confine myself to the market economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u53	That is probably because Mr Harbers has no sense of history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u54	Well, I've seen the Wall fall, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u55	But I'm glad he says "end 2021" at least. Then we can see what the VVD does with raising ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u56	No, we are talking about the redistribution of measures into sectors and whether the objective is being achieved. The targets themselves are raised every five years, so that happens in 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u57	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u58	Finally, I would like to make a few comments. The Minister recently promised to further develop the energy mix after 2030. This too was now advised in the climate plan by the Council of State. It is important that the Netherlands continue to have sufficient adjustable power. The options for this are limited. Coal plants will end by 2030 and biomass will contribute less and less to electricity generation in the longer term, allowing only gas plants to continue to play a role. I suspect that we will also need nuclear energy. For this, it is important for the Netherlands to take part in the current debate in the EU on taxonomy, in order to also label investments in nuclear energy as sustainable. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u59	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we got the surprising news about Urgenda, which to me was frankly no news. The news was that there is now a confirmation of something we already know for a long time, namely that the emission levels are much higher than the model had predicted so far. That means the Urgendagat is 9 to 10 megatons in size. That is the same order of magnitude as the gap we still have to bridge when it comes to the Climate Agreement and our goal of achieving 49% by 2030. Mind you: in the Green Deal that is presented, the proposal is 50% and, if reasonably possible, 55%. So all the reasons why, at the start of our climate approach under the new climate law, we should start with a package that really has the goal in mind. I just heard another discussion between coalition parties about the possible adaptation of the SDE. Then all of a sudden the agreements can be broken. I would say: choose a consistent line. If you can adjust to that, you can also do so when it comes to filling in the remaining hole. I also welcome the opinion of the Council of State. I welcome the fact that we have given this organisation a role in the Climate Act. The opinion is very clear. The Council of State also draws the attention of the Cabinet to the need to work on an additional package to prepare it. I'd like to know from the Minister how he's going to fill that out. My motion to put on the table an additional Urgenda package before 1 April has been adopted. My plea is to combine this with a package that will also achieve the climate agreement goal in the longer term, and to do so in conjunction with the nitrogen measures that will have to be completed in the coming months. That way you can serve both goals and we can also be sure that we are starting with a climate policy that is really going to take us where we want to be. What I also consider important to the opinion of the Council of State is the following. The Council of State not only highlights the need to look at energy infrastructure, the market organisation and projects that have been launched in an integrated way, but also calls for a legislative programme rather than a legislative agenda. Why do they say that? Because it's important to have a clear picture of the connection between all these different laws. I call on the Minister, who says in his reply to the Council of State that he does not yet want to do so, to make a legislative programme. It is very important that not only all the actors, but also the citizens and we, as auditors, keep a clear picture of the coherence between the various laws needed to implement the Climate Agreement. This is still too briefly described in the current Climate Agreement and Plan. So I hope that in this debate the Minister will at least want to make a move on that point, so that we can all keep track of how we can make this long and complicated journey together. I would also like to point out that it is mainly industry that has continued to grow in emissions. Unfortunately, it also applies to mobility and agriculture, where there are still much less concrete plans. That is something the Council of State rightly points out and I would like to hear the Minister's response to. I would like us to have an impact, in addition to the law that is going to fill in the CO tax leading to 14.3 megaton reduction, and to have a separate memo on what to do in order to achieve 9 to 10 megatons of reduction, so that we as a Chamber have that information. I'm not saying "you have to do it and do it," but just give us that information so that we can discuss it well with each other during the legal process. Then there is another point I would like to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u61	You've got 12 seconds for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u62	This is a study carried out by the PBL and the CPB a few years ago. I would like it to be updated, so that the next cabinet knows, even towards 2050, what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u64	I can't say it anymore, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u65	You're keeping it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u66	... it's about the study Future exploration Wealth and Environment. It was published in 2015. I'd really like a timely update.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u67	Thank you. I call Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u68	Mr. Chairman. It's restless on the climate front. Our companies and residents are looking for clues, security and direction. For the CDA, the direction is clear, namely that we are going to get Paris. That is why I went with a number of colleagues to the Madrid climate summit. With our own eyes we could see team Holland working there. Compliments for them. Mr. Chairman. Recent IPCC investigations outline black scenarios. On 9 December an article was published in the Volkskrant about a study of climate models. The conclusion of this study was that the climate models have been right for 50 years. Knowing this, I am pleased that Europe has indicated its willingness to increase ambition. If the European Commission's Green Deal is feasible, affordable and contributes to our employment, the CDA will look at it with a positive basis. Our question to the Minister is when we can get an impact analysis of this Green Deal. Mr. Chairman. It is worrying, however, that the rest of the world does not yet show that sense of reality. Countries such as China, Brazil and India still seem to be stuck in the groove at the moment, which will have to supply the developed countries first and they will have to go to work afterwards. This picture also emerged at the meeting of the Interparliamentary Union in Serbia in October this year. The IPU has been in existence for 130 years and more than 160 countries are members. What the United Nations are for governments is the IPU for us as parliaments. At this meeting, I spoke with India on behalf of our geopolitical group of Western countries, because India had submitted an energy item on the climate. My Indian colleague told me that he has the impression that Western countries want to share knowledge, but that they hardly do so in practice. He also indicated that the agreed funds would not be provided. After a tough negotiation, the conclusion was that we should deliver what we agreed in Paris and that, if we want to get below 2°C, the developing countries would have to make their contribution even now. In all conversations, we are a party to the fact that we cannot and will not do without the inhabitants. The same goes for the Indian colleague. He's been facing increasing flooding in his district for seven years. That also makes him and his constituents restless. This is a shared responsibility. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to climate and energy exploration in our own country. There is a Dutch Climate Agreement and a Climate Act. The Planning Office for the Environment has passed on the agreement and there is a reflection by the Council of State. The Council of State states that the first draft climate plan is evidence of a robust climate policy, which is also expected to lead to a significant reduction of greenhouse gases. However, the Council lacks a legislative programme in relation to the future of our society in 2050. I therefore entirely agree with Mr Van der Lee; let us therefore stick together. Does the Minister pick up this glove and, if so, when can we receive it? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State concludes that climate policy remains a paper reality if it is not feasible for citizens, businesses and other public and private organisations for a variety of reasons. That brings me to the question of governance. How does the Minister handle this with society and with the participants at the tables and other parties, such as co-governments? What is the response to the letter from Aedes, which states that the PBL charges too low a cost? Mr. Chairman. In the letter of 1 November we read that the Minister wants more sunshine and that school boards have received a letter on this matter. That is a good thing. They can borrow money for roof insulation and solar panels. How's the mood? And are there any obstacles to these developments? What can the Minister do about it? For example, we read that there are problems with the insurability of solar panels. Mr Ronnes and I have already asked questions about fire and solar panels. Is working with a quality mark, as they do in Belgium, a solution? You get that label when the installation is checked and the panels are properly installed. I would like an answer from the Minister on this point. What they do in Belgium is to recycle the panels. They ask for a recycling contribution in advance. We actually do the same for electronic equipment. So we would like to hear from this minister whether he is prepared to look at this for the solar panels as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u69	Thank you. Then Mrs. Beckerman of the SP. No, Mr Van Raan has another interruption. You're gonna have to get to the interrupting microphone in time, because now we have to get back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u70	That's a good tip, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u71	Take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u72	Sure. We just heard the VVD say that as far as the VVD and the Climate Act are concerned, there can only be a tightening of the Dutch targets in 2024. Now I have heard the CDA make a warm plea for urgency and the need for it. Does the CDA indeed agree that there can only be an increase in the Dutch targets in 2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u73	So that's what we agreed to in the Climate Act. Of course, that's what I'm sticking to. At the same time, I would like to see, in the impact analysis I asked the Minister for today, how the plans from Europe and the Green Deal could contribute to the realisation of these plans. Because, as has already been pointed out in an interruption debate with one of the other colleagues, we have an ETS system here in Europe. If we make that work better, and I hope we are going to do so, it can be very good for our industry. At the same time, if we want to export to the European Union, we must start to remind those countries that are not really happy, such as China, India and Brazil, that if they want to export to the European Union, they will simply be asked to pay a little more to the European Union. Because it can't be that our companies are doing their best and they just walk away with it. That's not what our residents and our companies are gonna stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u74	That is a warm plea for the CO-frontier tax. I fully agree with that, but Mrs Mulder does not answer the question. Does it think that the targets for 2024 could be raised, despite the fact that the climate law states that this is not the case, or not? That's a definite yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u75	I have indicated that we should really see that with the entire Chamber. Otherwise, we'll just stick to the Climate Act, because that's what it takes. But if the ETS offers a good opportunity, I think our industry is happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u76	Very good. Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u77	Mr. Chairman. Today I'm a 1,000-day MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u78	You wouldn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u79	Well, by the looks of it, I'm sure it is. During that period, we have had many debates in the Chamber on climate. Time and time again the story was actually: we did not achieve the climate targets, but wait for the Climate Agreement! But again: with the Climate Agreement, we are not achieving the climate targets. You can say that the new agreement is better than the old one, but it still remains that it is insufficient. The biggest cause is that we're trying to make it to the wrong person. Once again, people with the lowest incomes are getting worse, and again, it is unclear whether the biggest polluters are going to pay their fair share. That's a waste of support. Research by I&D Research shows that three quarters of the Dutch think that companies should do more. Almost half believe that the cabinet should do much more. But that's not what's happening right now. We're not gonna make it to the targets. Of course, that became painfully clear today. My predecessors have already referred to this. Meanwhile, the international plans of oil and gas companies are devastating. Over the next five years, nearly 1.5 trillion dollars will be invested in new oil and gas extraction by, among others, Shell, resulting in additional emissions similar to 1,200 new coal plants. Then the question is: what are we doing? We can all install a heat pump and start driving electric, but that doesn't solve anything if the industry releases on this huge scale. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate on the Climate Agreement, we tabled a motion. It was supported by almost the whole of the Chamber, thanking for this and called for a fair distribution of lusts and burdens to be the starting point and therefore to allow industry to pay a fair share. We see that the distribution between companies and households at the ODE has improved. We can see that the energy bill is rising slightly less than previously predicted, but let us also be honest to say that this is still insufficient to speak of a fair climate policy. I would therefore ask the Minister once again how he is really going to implement our motion. For example, in the case of Milieudefensie, the support for the agreement depends on the implementation of this motion. Mr. Chairman. While the largest polluters are still subsidised, households pay the price: 360,000 households live in energy poverty. That number is likely to double. Climate policy increases the energy bill. That is not helping the climate at all and it is also damaging to its support. Mr. Chairman. We have already put many proposals to the vote over the last few months that are not only good for the climate, but also ensure that people with low or average incomes improve on them. For example, I mention our plan to improve and sustain social housing or our plan for collective solar panels. These proposals did not make it, but the question remains what the cabinet will do to prevent and remedy energy poverty. In the Climate Agreement, it is promised that sustainability of rentals will be achieved in a neutral way. In other words, residents must not be allowed to decline. But the Housing Union and the housing corporations are warning us that we cannot do that with the current plans. What is the Minister's response to this? Do you repeat the warranty from the chord? How are you going to take care of that? Finally, Mr President. Einstein said, "We can't solve a problem with the way of thinking it's caused." That is exactly what the cabinet is trying to do here. We cannot continue to fail to achieve goals and at the same time continue to hunt for costs for households. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u80	Thank you. Then Mr Sienot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The climate is changing rapidly and this change is continuing. D66 therefore wants to work together and cope with this crisis in its own country, in Europe and in the rest of the world. At the Madrid Climate Summit, the world took a very small step forward. Some countries want to step on the brakes, but D66 certainly doesn't. We want a Netherlands that is at the forefront of a world that produces cleaner and generates energy. It is great to see that Europe is making great strides here. It wants to become the first climate-neutral continent. If we respond well to this, we will ensure that clean energy becomes cheap and easy for our residents and entrepreneurs. In the coalition agreement, we agreed to show more climate ambition if the EU went along with it. It's gonna work now. This will make it easier to encourage polluting companies to green up without moving quickly to a neighbouring country. I ask the Minister when we can expect the investigation into a stimulating CO levy. And how will the Minister contribute to a successful Green Deal in the EU? In our own country, we can see that the plans of this cabinet are already leading us a long way towards the Paris climate goals. But we're not here yet, as is shown by the Climate and Energy exploration, the KEV. The Minister therefore provides for more clean energy with additional measures. As a coalition, we arranged an additional 100 million, so that SMEs could also place financially attractive solar panels on their large but still empty roofs. In addition, the planned nitrogen measures contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases. But is it all enough? Too often the Minister seems to need an incentive from the Chamber, from the PBL and even from the judge to achieve the goals. D66 now says to the Minister: surprise us in a positive way. As European ambitions continue, we ask him to ensure that the next KEV achieves the target of 49% to 55% by 2030. Keep looking for new opportunities and inform the Chamber about the progress. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister's letter of growth is still such a climate opportunity. The Minister sees earning opportunities in greening industry; so does D66. We look forward to further shaping this in the investment fund. Mr. Chairman. According to the KEV, we are less efficient with energy in the years to come, while the cheapest energy is ultimately the energy you do not use. D66 wants energy efficiency to become a national sport, as in Denmark. For example, how does the Minister intend to benefit from FME's Project 6-25, 6 megatons of CO reduction in 2025? Mr. Chairman. To make your plans come true, you have to start. We now receive questions from many people and companies. How do we proceed now? What does this mean to me? How will the Minister manage this national change path? For example, we must prevent governments from waiting for each other. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. In short, Mr President. There must and there can be a shovel on top! If we get to work now and take everyone into the change, we make the green choice the logical choice; easy and cheap for people and businesses!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u82	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u83	Yes, Chairman, one question. Is it true that D66 sees space to raise the targets by 2024 under the particular circumstances that the CDA just indicated? Or is D66 following the VVD that categorically rejected that and says we're not going to do that until 2024? What is it? Does D66 follow the VVD or does D66 follow under very specific circumstances, which we of course still have to talk about extensively, right the CDA, which does not exclude that the targets will be raised in the meantime, i.e. by 2024,?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u84	That is a very clear question. My short answer to that is that we do not have these very clear conditions at the moment. However, there are agreements within the Climate Agreement and the Climate Act to think about this. Nevertheless, I have also said that Europe has presented a clear Green Deal. There are higher goals in that. So, as far as I'm concerned, the Minister is going to see as soon as possible how we can make this Green Deal a success and what this means for the Dutch goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u85	I have a question for Mr Sienot in response to the Green Deal from his colleague, Mr Verhoeven. It was positive in terms of content. That was also the judgment of the cabinet. But yes, the Netherlands is really on the brakes when it comes to funding. If we have to put extra money on the table in Europe to increase ambitions, to expand ETS and to make all these investments, does Mr Verhoeven think that it should also be in the Netherlands that, in order to achieve the Urgenda targets and 49%, additional resources should be sought outside the current financial frameworks to bring climate policy to the level needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u86	I said last time in the debate on the Urgenda funds that the plan is not finished. There's gotta be something. We can see that additional measures are being taken in a variety of areas. For example, we have already mentioned nitrogen. I urged the Minister to quickly identify what is needed and to draw up a plan on it. There are no taboos in this respect. Because a judge's ruling is ultimately something you just have to live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u87	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u88	Mr. Chairman. Now that it's going to be like this by the end of the year, you're almost inclined to look back. I won't do that, especially not in the way Mr. G.B.J. Hiltermann used to do that on the radio in the past. I used to listen to that as a child, at least to the sonorous sounds and not so much to what he had to say in terms of content. Looking back on this year, we see some positive developments. A Climate Agreement has been reached. There's a Green Deal in the primer. Germany decides to introduce a really strong tax on CO. But there are also fewer flourishing things. The climate summit failed. If you see the forecasts of the temperature rise, you'll lose heart. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing climate and energy exploration here today. As Mr Harbers said, it is actually part of a cycle. What Mr Harbers stressed was that we have now properly secured monitoring and that the Council of State has a role in it, my question to the Minister is whether we have sufficiently secured the planned implementation. The Planning Office for the Environment says that much still needs to be done to achieve the 49% reduction; the actual implementation of policies is difficult in practice. The Rli says that the government must strongly steer transition to sustainable economy. Knowing this from authoritative advisers is my question to the Minister to what extent he takes these opinions to heart. In view of the Climate Agreement and the climate tables, I wonder whether we should follow up on this. What does the architecture of that process look like? I have the feeling that things are going well in some areas, for example at the electricity table, but there are also parts on which I have great concerns, such as the RESs where whole parties are responsible, which also implies that no one is responsible. Is the industry going to deliver enough? There is genuine concern about that too, and I am concerned about that. As long as you can still make money by consuming raw materials and by emitting and destroying natural resources and while protecting our nature and natural resources is a cost, all financial incentives are aimed at not moving too hard. So, in summary, my question to the Minister is: how are we going to shape that process in a good and clear way, also in such a way that the goals are met? Then there is the second point. The Minister is on a tonne-hunt for 2030, but this presents the risk of optimising existing systems. We also know that system jumps need to be made. If we look at our mobility system where there are 50,000 flights over a distance of less than 500 kilometres, then my question is whether we should start planning for the period 2030-2050. Should we not join the Green Deal and the European high-speed network? Shouldn't we be laying the foundations for a hydrogen economy by now? How was that secured? Then there is my final point, and that is what happens in Germany with the CO levy. This cabinet has always had the ambition to form a leading group. Germany is now signing off as a frontrunner. I think €55 is quite a step. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to speed up the introduction and roll-out of a CO levy, because the 'polluter pays' principle ultimately works best. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u89	Thank you. Perfect on time. Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u90	Thank you, Mr President. In six months time we get new insights about the tons of CO we bring in. It is therefore a good thing that there is a climate law that has set 49% CO reduction and that we can also make a price for it. However, that does not mean that we can now sit back. On the contrary. The Urgenda target, 25% reduction by 2020, is not going to be achieved. The cabinet can only present additional measures, as was stated earlier by the Chamber in Mr Van der Lee's motion. When can we talk to the cabinet about this and when will the cabinet come forward with the bill for a price of CO? Because that's how we solve the problem at its core. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we are not interfering with the goals, but we are doing everything we can to achieve the goals. We do not do this because the purpose is sacred or because the judge called us to it, but we do so because we want to preserve the creation and pass it on to our children and grandchildren. At the heart is the search for a new balance in our society. Our way of life exhausts creation and also goes at the expense of ourselves. Much more than a technical transition, therefore, the energy transition is a social challenge, and that is precisely when it is important for the government to stand alongside people and provide people with an action perspective. Mr. Chairman. I note that the ball is being dropped with the citizens when it comes to the energy transition. But what if you depend on your housing corporation? What if you are less mature and do not have the overview of all the arrangements, which, by the way, still have to be rigged to a significant extent? What if there's no energy window in your town? Mr. Chairman. The government is extremely effective in advertising postal code lotteries. That's what makes people addicted and tricks them out of money for the state treasury. But where is the government when it comes to action perspective for people in the energy transition? When do people get to know what works best for them, in their situation? Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing there's a grant for isolation. It's been opened recently. But is this the great isolation programme, as a no-regret measure to which every citizen can rely? Mr. Chairman. My group is pleased that we have been able to agree in the Climate Agreement on energy tax adjustments. As a result, the account is more for companies and less for citizens, and more for higher incomes than for lower incomes. Electrifying our energy supply requires a smart link between supply and demand. There is also a need to invest in energy storage, but in the end we will not escape grid congestion. That requires considerable investment. But how heavy does the net have to be? How intelligent does the net have to be? Mr. Chairman. My core question: where is the government master plan? My group's fear is that the lower energy tax for citizens will soon be offset by rising tariffs for network operators. Is it not much fairer, I ask the Minister, if the government takes a step forward here, then that these costs come back to citizens' energy bills? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, we need to pay much more attention in the energy transition to techniques that are not cost-effective but promising for the future, so less focus on biomass and much more on energy from water and hydrogen, to name but two examples. The extra boost of 10 million for energy cooperatives has the support of the Christian Union, because cooperatives combine local energy and community spirit with sustainability. When it comes to statistical transmission, it certainly does not deserve the beauty prize, but now that the 14% target cannot really be met, it is acceptable, provided that this leads to additional renewable energy in Europe, i.e. no purchasing of hydropower. Mr President, I will conclude. It is incredibly sad that the Madrid climate summit failed, but we can see that there is an ambitious European Green Deal. That is good news, but still I think a lot of people are wondering: what does this mean for me, in my situation? I see a very large group of people in our country willing to take a step in the energy transition today. My question is how the government can be an ally to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u91	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber say that we need to invest in techniques that are not yet profitable, but which are very forward-looking. That is partly in line with my contribution. I mentioned hydrogen in it, but also the mobility system. In order to reduce air traffic, shouldn't you already make a lot of plans and invest in a good connection between the Netherlands and the HSL network?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u92	This makes a lot of sense to me. I know that my colleague Stieneke van der Graaf, spokesperson for mobility, is indeed in favour of good links between the Netherlands and abroad. But I would very much like to wait for the concrete proposals, and I think it would be good to discuss them further with the Committee on Mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u93	I do not think that we should opt for an excessively sectoral approach, especially when we look at mobility, because the MIRT has been poured into concrete until 2030. If you want to change something about that, you might even better try pulling a hewn pole of 18 meters long with bare hands out of the ground. But if we really want to move towards system changes, you should reduce air traffic in the mobility system, but in such a way that there are good alternatives for passengers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u94	Yeah, I think the word "system change" is appropriate. This applies not only to the subject we are discussing today, but also to other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u95	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u96	Mr President, let me briefly explain this. I think we're running across all kinds of boundaries in our society. Not for nothing have I also said that we should not only focus on technical measures, but also on social measures. My question is: how is the government going to facilitate this? This means that our mobility may change. It is no longer perseverable that we are all doing short distances within Europe by plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u97	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u98	So my group, too, would very much like us to put the other alternative, namely rail transport, and to make fair prices for air transport, so that people can make the right choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u99	I have another question for Mrs Dik-Faber on energy saving. Mr Sienot was right to talk about this. I just read on Energeia that on the second date this year, on 1 July, it was about the Environmental Management Act, on 5 December, it was about the energy audit that really only half of the companies that fulfil that obligation. It concerns 44,000 of the expected 90,000 companies that should have done so. We've talked about this before. Do you not agree with me that the Minister and the environmental services should act harder against companies that do not deliver what we have agreed with each other for many years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u100	If we lay down rules with each other, I think it is extremely important that we also enforce those rules. But first of all, I think it is important for companies to simply comply with the rules, because I think it is ultimately an investment for companies that may require something from companies in the short term, but which will also produce something in the long term. I answer Mr Van der Lee's specific question with 'yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u101	Thank you. Mr Van Raan from the Group of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u102	Mr. Chairman. It's time for Christmas reports. Of course, the Minister's Christmas report did not look good, and today the bad news was added that the expected CO reduction in 2020 was even lower than it was assumed. It shows exactly what the Animal Party has always warned this minister about. By not interpreting the Urgenda goal as a lower limit, this government is deliberately taking the risk of failing to achieve the goal. It reminds me of the student who really didn't work hard enough all year long and wanted to take everything to make up for it. And, yeah, then that test falls out a little harder, and then he doesn't make it. Thus, contrary to science, judges and a majority in parliament, this government is not making the most of the 2020 target. So the government is deliberately taking the risk of missing the target. Does the Minister understand this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The perfect summary of Dutch climate policy came from Greta Thunberg again last week. She said, quite frankly, the greatest danger is not even the standstill, but rather the fact that politicians and CEOs are pretending to put their hands up for the climate, while they focus on creative accounting and brush up their image with a smooth campaign strategy. It summarizes exactly how historically calling politicians did it in the Netherlands. As if the Climate Act is not an empty compromise where the political centre preferred to keep up appearances rather than seek a solution. As if the draft climate plan were going to launch the system change, while the Council of State wiped it out. As if the Climate Agreement is tackling the sacred houses, while it is still keeping the hands above the fossil industry, aviation and bio-industries. As if this minister's letter of growth contains a trace of insight that the current lifestyle is unsustainable and that our ecological deficit is going to kill us. Four times a fat one, so... And also internationally, the Netherlands scores badly. The European Green Deal joined and showed that the Netherlands is not the only problem child in the class. The deal was even presented as a new growth strategy for the economy, people and planet, while the EU's irresponsible agricultural subsidies and trade agreements actively contribute to a climate and biodiversity crisis. That's what D66 was talking about. Infinite growth on a planet with a finite amount of raw materials is impossible. Another recent setback is the crashed climate summit in Madrid. We read that Minister Wiebes was also disappointed. Does the Minister share the view that we should not only look at other countries as long as the government here in the Netherlands is doing too little to achieve its own goals? Mr. Chairman. Climate and Energy exploration shows that we will not achieve our 2030 targets in this way. Internationally, the Netherlands has long argued for an increase in the 2030 target to 55%. In their own country, however, it continues to strive for 49% in the case of butter. Maybe this will be adjusted in 2024. That's what we're hearing. In the knowledge that this should be 70%, that is not nearly enough. At the next climate summit, in Glasgow, the raising of targets is one of the themes. When will the government finally turn the argument for 55% into a concrete policy objective? Mr President, I will conclude. Across the board, this cabinet scores a gross insufficient amount in its climate policy. The Animal Party therefore rejected the entire national budget. With this lousy Christmas report, this minister won't pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u103	Thank you. I call Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group. Then we're gonna listen to Mr Stoffer and then I'm gonna suspend for dinner, then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u104	Oh, well, dinner, for someone else it's dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u105	I'm trying to avoid the word amuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u106	That's a little outside the climate, Mr. Chairman. I want to try to do something else. We have the coordinating minister here. I wanted to appeal to him precisely on his coordinating capacity and not just on the vistas, but also on the reality. It is in a number of areas besides climate policy and has to do with that. Other groups have already talked about affordability, acceptance among the population and burden-sharing between business and individual citizens. We would like to see attention paid to housing and housing costs. This was also reflected in the debate we had before the summer recess, because of the increase in the gas tax and so on. We always seem to have a climate debate just before the recess. Before the summer recess, we had the big climate debate. The paper of the cabinet states that it would be possible to see whether the housing valuation system, the point system used to determine the rents for social housing, could provide elements to encourage the sustainability of houses in the cooperative sector. The reason for this was that the residents themselves have neither the responsibility nor the financial possibilities. We haven't heard more about that. A number of colleagues from 50PLUS and I have tried a few times to raise this point. It seems to me that it is now time for the Minister to call on his coordinating capacity to indicate what actually happened there. It is about reducing rents, because they are poorly insulated houses, that compensates for the rising energy costs. This applies if you solve the gap in the reduction in the rent allowance, which can also be added. In the second term, we will probably help the Minister with a specific motion on this matter. The second point is that there will be the debate on nitrogen tomorrow. I'm not gonna be there because I'm gonna have to talk to another secretary of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u107	The Minister is not a State Secretary, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u108	No, sorry. This is the second time I've been wrong. That's because I have to talk to the Secretary of State for Finance tomorrow. This is also about how the problems of the previous period are resolved. This present minister has been involved in a previous life, if I put it neutrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u109	Now we're up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u110	What matters to me is this. We have a problem. Not only do we have a climate problem, but we also have a problem with housing. We have a problem with nitrogen. As far as we are concerned, we are trying to link these two problems in such a way that it comes to solutions and not to a standstill. This means that we would like to make proposals. We would also like to know from the cabinet how much it would cost to buy up part of the farmland. Then we want to create both housing and nature in order to get both winners out of this process. Because at the moment, in our view, there are too many burdens and too few winners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u111	Thank you. The last speaker for dinner is Mr. Stoffer of the Stately Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u112	Mr President, I understand that I am the aperitif. Whether that's tasty depends on what you think. Mr. Chairman. I'm sure you can't see it, but my glasses have three words on them: feasibility, affordability and reliability. With these glasses I look at the reports and also at the cabinet letter. Is the course sober and realistic, affordable for citizens and entrepreneurs, and does the energy supply remain reliable? I start with the feasibility and then I wonder: what is the cabinet doing? Because this afternoon we received a letter with new planning bureau calculations. Price changes are likely to reduce CO emissions by two percentage points. Leading a burden, because next year the cabinet wants to reach 25%, with possible new measures. Then I think: when does this short-term policy stop? I also read that 95 million has been earmarked for the early closure of a coal power station. I think this is a very expensive measure for reducing CO on paper, while the electricity comes from Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u113	I find this a little complicated from Mr Stoffer. He's hammering for reliability. Isn't it crucial to be optimistic not always misplaced about achieving goals, but to have a real perspective on achieving them? Unfortunately, when it comes to Urgenda, we haven't seen that for over four years, since the first sentence. And now say it's a little panic football? Surely a reliable government is starting to be not misplaced optimistic about the feasibility of targets?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u114	There you see: everyone tastes an aperitif in a different way. When I talk about reliability, I am talking about energy supply and not about that last percentage point reduction and so on. There may be a disagreement or a difference of opinion. I hope I solved it with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u115	Solved? I don't think so. I believe that Mr Stoffer also refers to the reliability of the government, that everyone in the Netherlands knows what he is up to. Then it is certainly at such a challenge, which I think Mr Stoffer recognizes, which really requires a great collective effort until 2050, important to be consistent and reliable and not to count yourself rich. Do you not think that the latter has been done too much by this cabinet and its predecessor when it comes to the Urgenda goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u116	What I think is that you shouldn't necessarily focus on a certain percentage in a given year. It is very good that somewhere in 2050 we have a percentage of 95, but whether you are a year earlier or later... You don't have to do very fast things for that. I liked what Mr. Harbers said later. I will hold him to that when the proposals come to us. Then I'll see if the cabinet has listened to him. Just be reliable in what you ask. If you come up with new short-term measures every time, the business community gets nervous and runs away. Then there's going to be a lot more out there in the world. Even now, with the coal power plant that we shut down: in Germany there are many dirtyer coal power stations and they remain open for a while. Then I think: let's close it first, and then close it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u117	I would also like to refer to the concept of reliability. We know the SGP as a reliable party, which is morally committed, from its Christian beliefs. But does Mr Stoffer not realize how much Urgendavonnis comes from a promise we made as rich countries in 2015 to poor countries, to underdeveloped countries, to take an extra step so that they could also support the Paris Agreement? Does Mr Stoffer not have any historical idea of how we will abandon these underdeveloped countries completely if we fail to comply with the Urgendavonnis? That is not something the cabinet wants, but what we as a country have promised. That's reliable, not that snooping of the SGP over a few digits behind the comma. That is not worthy of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u118	It's about: are you realistic? I don't think you're being realistic when you think we're getting a letter now, the percentage drops something and then we're going to take all kinds of short-term measures to get anything next year. I do not think that offers a long-term perspective. I just added the example of Germany. You can close the coal power plant in the Netherlands, while the dirtier one steams through Germany, and then get the energy from there. I think that's a look up to about the border; I like to look over it and then I like to do it right at once. But I don't think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u119	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u120	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna keep going, because I think I've got more in the aperitif that might not be equally tasty for everyone. The exploration also tells us that 49% reduction will be difficult by 2030. And what does the Cabinet do? Moving Europe to achieve the target of 55% CO reduction by 2030, and also applauding the Timmermans Green Deal. Let me just say this: at Natura 2000, many people also thought at the beginning that it would be okay. Well, you see what's come of it: it's not. I'd say, before you start. If you think we've already started, better halfway than completely lost. Mr President, biomass. It now provides about half of renewable energy production and 20% by 2030. However, there is a serious sustainability issue. My question is therefore: does the biomass fuel in coal-fired power stations actually produce CO reduction at the bottom of the line? Okay, Mr. Chairman, then the reliability. I'll explain that to you, too, otherwise people will think that I mean completely different things. The SGP has often made a point of longer-term security of supply. So I'm talking about the energy. The exploration only recalls concerns about security of supply in neighbouring countries. But, as far as I am concerned, let us also look in our own country where we are heading when it is cloudy on a cold day and not blowing. My question is whether the Minister would like to take the Elfstedentocht scenario with him next time. The network operators foresee a significant increase in transport charges in 2022. They'll rise even further after that. My question is: do we have enough? Innovation is also crucial. In 2018, I saw a budget of 225 million, of which, unfortunately, only EUR 24 million for hydrogen and energy storage. My question is: where are the serious investments in energy storage? Mr. Chairman. One more minute for affordability, because I would once again like to draw attention to the position of business. I repeat the plea for an analysis of the cost increases for SMEs. There isn't one yet, and the cabinet is moving on in the meantime. For example, greenhouse farms, fruit-farming companies, the food industry and other industries receive a huge increase in the cost of choosing by increasing the ODE levy. The Climate Agreement wants companies to switch from gas to electricity, which has also been agreed. However, the intended increase in the third disc of the ODE levy inhibits this development and penalises companies that have invested in electrification. I ask the Minister to do the necessary analyses quickly and to fix the policy. Mr. Chairman. I see I'm about my time, so I want to finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u121	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend to the seven o'clock clock and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u122	Let's move on. With your permission, I don't want to do any night work, but that's more in your hand than in mine. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u123	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna start with the letter I sent out about Urgenda. This shows that the task is still more important. We're actually back to the number we were on before the KEV estimate. That is extremely disappointing. How do I look at that? There is no other option for me but to take that very seriously and continue to work on it. I will say something about this later, because questions have also been asked about it. At the same time, it also invites you to keep your wits about it. Because what is happening in this estimate? It is good to think about that for a moment. There's a lot of uncertainty in the emissions. As a result, there is also a high volatility in the estimates. This is, of course, because we are not only dependent on hot or cold winters or, as with the CPB, a slow or slow decline in economic activity, but because there are different energy systems and energy suppliers side by side. A change in market prices can make this change. Then what's the amazing situation we're in? The old estimate assumed that we would burn less coal, but that this would be partly absorbed by German coal-fired power stations. This is not beneficial for the climate, but it is beneficial for Dutch emissions on Dutch soil. The estimates are now different and what is happening? It is now being collected by Dutch gas plants, which is much better for the climate, but less good for the task in the Netherlands. However, I think that this invites us to deal with it in an extraordinary way. In the end, it is a climate goal. We're gonna have to keep that up. Yes, I attach great importance to estimates. Yes, I attach great importance to the role of the Planning Office for the Environment, but we must keep our wits about it. What would be to me "keep the mind"? For me, that would be to continue to work very actively on additional measures. That's what the whole cabinet does to me, because it's not all in the field of economic affairs. Additional measures are being pursued very actively in a number of areas. How do we do that? There is an enormous coincidence between the nitrogen problem and the Urgenda target. When you do something with ammonia in the nitrogen atmosphere, you almost automatically do something with methane for the climate, because that often goes together. When you do something with NO in the nitrogen atmosphere, you almost automatically do something with CO, because it's about combustion processes. It goes on together. We are very clear with regard to solving two problems at the same time. There are no separate analyses, so the agencies that help us all to calculate measures are working on both. That wish has been expressed by several of you. That is a very understandable and very important wish. That's exactly how we should do this. This means that, over and over again, step by step, new measures will have to be taken in the coming months. They work for both nitrogen and Ugendavonnis. That's the way to do it. Now Mr Van der Lee says: can I get the list of measures? He doesn't say that, but that's how I understood his question. Of course, there is no such thing as a exhaustive list of measures, but it is important that we deliver the measures that the Van der Lee motion asks for. It was Mr Van der Lee who said: hurry up, because before 1 April I want to see additional measures taken by this cabinet. That is, of course, the intention. It's being worked on in all kinds of ways. Maybe it doesn't happen all at once, but in snacks. Measures must be taken before 1 April. But I'm not gonna wait till April 1 when I have measures. There is also a great deal of activity in the field of Christmas trees and also in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u124	Mr Van der Lee on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u125	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I'm glad he wants to use his mind. I think we've been finding each other on that for a while: it's always important to use your mind. But what precedes that is that it has been said for four years that you should not misplace yourself. If you assume a bandwidth and each time choose the top side in the sense of "it's near the target, so it's gonna be okay," you miscalculate. The lesson is now that we are going to look at the middle value, but it is again shown to be optimistic. Using your mind is good, but that does mean looking at these kinds of goals in a fair way. You should do the same in the Climate Agreement. Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u126	I couldn't agree more. In fact, we had an Urgenda legislative consultation the other day. Then I indicated that for me the middle value is not sacred and that I would not stop taking measures once I have reached the middle value. At that time there was no new estimate, but there were large bandwidths with uncertainties. I understand that these uncertainties do not fit in with holding a middle value, whatever the middle value at the time; at the same time that is an answer to Mr Van Raan's question. I can see that we still have a long way to go in view of these uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u127	Just a follow-up question to get it very precise. You are referring to a motion that I have tabled. You also say that you may be taking measures sooner than 1 April. It's about the sum total. Are we going to an additional package in the order of 8, 9 megatons, the same hole we have with the Climate Agreement? Can I assume, then, that if the mind fails to achieve this by 2020, you will continue to do so, so that the objective of the Climate Agreement can also be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u128	If I had had the answer, I would have already sent it to Mr Van der Lee. There's never any security. It is an extremely important task, it is extremely complex, but it is clear that the final sentence for 2020 will apply for 2021. Where you won't make it by 2020, you'll have to do all kinds of things to make it the year after.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u129	Good to hear that the mind has worked, but you really have to ask yourself how that mind was used and how big that mind is. The Minister rightly describes the extent of these inaccuracies and the volatility of the gas price pricing model. That didn't fall out of the sky, you might know that in advance. In fact, that was known in advance. And yet this minister has chosen to maintain that lower limit. Is the Minister prepared to take the middle value not as the limit, but to sit at the top and do some extras? Is the Minister prepared to do so? I have an additional question. The middle value doesn't seem to be reached. It's gone down to 20%, 21%. What does that do for the margins? On the one hand it is said that the margins have remained the same, 19-26, but it is still between 1 and 100, if the Minister understands what I mean. Is it not true that with the fall in the middle value from 23% to 21%, the margin of the upper limit is perhaps below 25%? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u130	I'm not going to draw any conclusions based on an A4 from the Plan Bureau for the Environment that doesn't contain this. The message to me is that the task is greater than was thought the day before yesterday. I'm focusing on that bigger task. I have already agreed in the WHO Urgenda that I cannot imagine a situation in which I stop at the middle value. I already said back then that I see the risks and that I think we have some time to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u131	That's right, that's what's been said. The minister says it came a little unexpected, when we might have known it was going to happen. Is the Minister aware of the fact that he is now prepared to take a safe supervalue, or at least let us put it this way, so that we can agree to proceed with a safe value? Let us not focus on 25%, but let us just go for 30% and make every effort to do so. 'Cause so far it's been disappointing over and over again. The Minister knows that and is fully aware of it, but he is not doing the right thing to get that 25%. So we could start by setting the target for 2020 at 30%. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u132	We can theoretically agree on all kinds of great goals, such as 70% by 2030 or 30% by 2020, but it is important that we still have a very big gap. I'm spending my time inventorying measures now. I am doing so because I have to abide by a verdict and I am doing so because I want us to take measures which will be useful later and which will not scare everyone off the table. For not every supporter is like Mr Van Raan's supporters. There are also people who feel completely different about it and we want to take the whole of the Netherlands with us. So I am looking for measures that will be useful in the light of the transition and that can happen by 2020. Whether I focus on 25% or 30% is a somewhat theoretical question for now, because I have so long to go and I spend my time mapping out all these different conceivable measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u133	These are some repetitive debates. This change of arguments is already taking place in many debates and in many general consultations according to the same template. I kind of suspect the Minister's having a bit of a masochistic impact. He has to go to the Chamber with setbacks and then collect the verbal whips of the Chamber, especially from the opposition part. Then I think, for Christ's sake, take the advice of the Rli and the PBL seriously! They're waving yellow flags again. The Rli says we need more government guidance. The PBL says: noununou, there is still much to be done!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u134	But there is no one who denies that much remains to be done. At least there's one person who denies there's no government direction on it, and that's me. I'll get to those questions later and then I'll say something about it. Look, it's very easy to constantly shoot at a transition that 150 stakeholders are working on, that the whole society has to work with, from the sidelines with words like "vision" and "coherence." I'll tell you about the direction and the coherence. I think that direction and coherence are there, but sometimes it seems a bit of a cry for the strong man. Then we would really like to have a climate figure like Putin here in our midst, who, with his bare head on a horse, gives direction to the operation. But we don't want to. The Netherlands is not a country for a strong man. And we don't give orders by letting someone order everything around. We do this through neat systems, transparency, accountability and an independent referee. I'll tell you about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u135	Mr Baudet is absent, but the Minister takes over his role in debiting hyperboles. I'm not arguing for a Putin at all! What kind of bullshit is that? I've had administrative responsibility myself for years, the portfolio of finance. I used to say, "That's a high-volume portfolio of saying no." But I always made sure that the objectives were so that I could report the States more windfalls than disappointments. I'd give that to this minister, too. He'd get a little more compliments. There was indeed sometimes a write-off for Blauwestad between all windfalls, as Mrs Beckerman points out, but well. But in itself, I would like to give it to the Minister that he formulated his goals and paved the path so that he also achieves his goals and does not have to explain every time that he has done his best, but that he has not succeeded again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u136	We have never made it a secret that Urgenda is an extremely difficult story. I would like to say that, in the area of the Climate Agreement, we have a proper commitment to reach 49%. We do that exactly in accordance with the Climate Law. That's where we got the barrels. Yeah, we were on a ton of yacht, and the barrels were taken, too. And yes, we all see that the barrels will have to be increased again with a certain agreed rhythm. But the best way to get this society along is not by using a different goal every two weeks, but by quietly focusing on achieving the goal according to a pre-arranged rhythm. Mr Kops is asking me to ensure that the Green Deal does not allow the bill to rise by just one cent. It's only a matter of time before the Green Deal raises our accounts. In any case, our policy will mean that the energy bill will increase again in the years after a firm reduction of €100 for an average consumer. I need to be clear about that. But the Climate Agreement itself, the Climate Agreement in itself improves the income picture, especially at the lowest incomes. No, that doesn't mean the bill will never increase by one cent. Mr Kops knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u137	That is worrying, because the European Green Deal is going to cost EUR 260 billion a year. That's a big deal: EUR 260 billion a year. Then the Minister must at least have an idea of how this is going to go down among the households in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u138	We have had this calculated for our Climate Agreement, which is already largely in line with the Green Deal. That really does not come out farther of that kind of money. We have taken the most cost-effective route. This will limit costs, which will reach 2030, even by 2030, to significantly less than 0.5% of our gross domestic product, but significantly less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u139	In an interview at Nieuwsuur, Mr Timmermans said that the Member States should contribute more as a result of this Green Deal. He will say, "You are asking us for more and more policies." Yeah, we at the PVV don't think so. He says: "If you think that should be done on a European scale, money must also be against it." How much the hell is that gonna cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u140	As far as our Dutch climate agreement is concerned, I have just replied. I also said that the European Green Deal is already largely in line with our climate agreement. We are going to see it in effect, but we are with the parties that have already done a lot but also managed to keep costs low. Not every other country can say that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u141	Speaking of costs... I asked for an impact assessment. The European Union itself has argued in favour of this. We heard Frans Timmermans say the last week in Madrid. Can the Minister here promise that we'll get that on all these plans? We do want to know that if we invest money, then that goes in a way that we achieve our goals. My party is not waiting for us to join up freely in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u142	I walk by the various spokesmen, so I would have thought of this. But now that Mrs Mulder asks: yes, impact assessment is being carried out. This already follows in early February and then gives insight into the impact of this. That, in turn, is the basis for further decision-making. There will also be further appreciations of the Dutch cabinet on the Green Deal. They'll follow, I think in February too. Mr Harbers has a good question which is really what many speakers would later be Mr Stoffer's reliable government. He says: "We have a scheme for new construction, the ISDE scheme. There are professionals in but also private individuals. Individuals could not make their grant application until after the purchase. They have to show their receipt, unlike for professionals, and they are now suddenly fishing behind the net." Mr Harbers asked whether there was a transitional arrangement for this. I realize that there is no such thing, and I also realize that it would be useful to have it. So we need to work on that. I'm picking up that glove. There should be some transitional provision for individuals who have purchased a heat pump before 1 January but do not yet have the installation in order and need some time to apply for that subsidy. I realize it's useful to arrange something for that. This is a commitment, and I will work out the precise parameters. But I'll go ahead with that. Then I come to an important question from the VVD about the clarity of the infrastructure. That's a very important one. It is linked to the question that the VVD asked afterwards, namely how we are going to achieve that economic growth. Indeed, if we do nothing at all and just let it happen, a climate agreement may lead to costs but not to significant additional economic activity. What's our strategy there? Especially with regard to industry, where the field of competition really applies, we have agreed not to be stricter under conditions, but to start earlier. Starting that early should give us a head start. We do that in different ways. First of all, we do this by monitoring the playing field by creating a CO levy that does not drive companies away, but only makes it difficult for companies that really do nothing. We also use our natural position to the maximum. If you write down now what the ideal location for sustainable industry is, you can describe something that we have a chance to place here and about nowhere else. I do not know any other location in the world with water-based industries, with one of the best ports on earth, with one of the best hinterland connections on earth, with the availability of hydrogen from wind at sea on one of the most windy seas, with empty gas fields off the coast, where CCS can be stored, and with enormous density, so that we can have exchange of hydrogen, heat and CO. That's nowhere in the world. If we abandon that opportunity by screwing it up, we are guilty of it in front of the posterity. But it's gonna take some. One of those things is infrastructure and clarity about that infrastructure. That is exactly Mr Harbers' question. We have to give that clarity. We also need to know more precisely how to do that. Infrastructures are needed for CO, hydrogen and heat. We have now set up a special task force to deal with this. You can't speak of a master plan yet, but of a direction in which it has to develop. We need to answer questions about how this infrastructure is financed, how business access to that infrastructure is regulated and in what phase we should start with it. We're doing this now. Others don't do this to my knowledge yet. That means that if we put this in the ground in a proper way, we have that certainty that allows our industries to take that step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u143	I am very excited by the Minister's sketch of our industrial hub on the North Sea, but we have more industrial clusters, also in the north of the country and in Limburg. Are they gonna be in that task force too? There too, there are the same issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u144	I do not think I specifically mentioned Rotterdam. Those who look into the Eemsmond are extremely enthusiastic about the strategy they have there. That too is a port site. There they even opted for a kind of plug-and-play type of infrastructure for which all connections were made in advance. There is already the first piece of hydrogen infrastructure. This can be said as industrial countries; all connections are already ready. The economic development in that area is truly impressive. That too is such an area with wind at sea and so on that it is possible to become one of the most sought-after industrial sites in Europe. I'm not specifically talking about the Randstad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u145	No, that's true. But the characteristics are one of "located by the sea." This is, of course, not the case in Limburg, where they do have great ambitions, but where the spoke runs on infrastructure. How is it handled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u146	They will be included, among other things, as they will in some cases have to be connected to the CCS and hydrogen infrastructure and so on. It's part of the job. We all see, of course, that we have something to offer with the other areas that does not exist anywhere in the world. We should be happy about that, but if we screw that up, if we don't take advantage of it and if we don't make it up to the rest of us, then we've missed a chance. Then the next generations are really gonna laugh at us if they don't cry. We need to make something out of this, too. It's kind of a debt of honor. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the taxonomy question. Nuclear energy is, by all objective standards and all objective reports, a low CO source and is increasingly switchable in future generations. So there's no way to rule that out. In the negotiations on taxonomy, the Netherlands has made an effort not to exclude nuclear energy. That has become the outcome. That is the current state of affairs. Nuclear energy will not be excluded, but will not be specifically and explicitly included in the Taxonomy Regulation. But nuclear energy is not excluded. That is the outcome of the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u147	I hear nuclear power is not excluded. I also expect the cabinet to remain active on this issue in the near future. Let me get back to the subject before that. In terms of earning capacity, I had also asked for attention to be paid to what the Council of State recommends on this issue, namely to reflect costs and benefits. Here's what I noticed. The Central Planning Bureau shows what the macro costs are and what the employment and purchasing power effects are, for example. The Council of State then says: if you are going to show this in the coming years, you should also look at the social benefits, for example what costs for dike enhancements you save or what health benefits you gain. But where do we actually get the earning power in the future, which shows what the micro means for companies and how we can make that prosperity gain there? In short, how does the Minister respond to that recommendation of the Council of State to reflect these costs and benefits? How is he going to ensure that, in the coming years, all aspects, not just macro-impacts, such as purchasing power and affordability aspects, but also effects on our prosperity and employment for businesses, become such a model?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u148	Micro can't do that. Macro is important. Whether we can quantify that is only very strong demand. But one of the decisions taken by this cabinet is to make this one of the six pillars of the growth strategy. We need to get to work on this. We must make this a profit for the Dutch economy. Then it's really just about earning power. It is about jobs and competitiveness. So that was really part of our growth strategy in the latest growth letter. That's what this is about. That's about taking advantage of this opportunity. Mr Van der Lee, together with Mrs Mulder, is calling for a legislative programme. That is, of course, also a bit of a response to that need for coherence. I think that this coherence should be outlined from the outset. Because it's not like you're putting together 150 people, stakeholders, all the fun ideas on the table, and then you're gonna see where you're going. That's not how it happened. Internationally, our method is an example for many. There are delegations here to see how we do that. That went pretty well. That started with the coalition agreement, in which that methodology is anchored. We have looked at cost-effectiveness, but there are exceptions to cost-effectiveness, because we want to start things that take a long time now, even though they may not be cost-effective now. We also want to make use of innovation. Timing therefore plays a role and cost-effectiveness as well. In this way, we have sought the package by which we come up with sensible solutions at the lowest cost in 2050. That is already a very coherent methodology. It forces a great deal of respect in all kinds of areas in other countries. Then we gave industry orders and let the referee watch. The coherence of all these measures has also been monitored. At that time there was an integral review of PBL. This has been looked at at measure level, at system level and even at infrastructure level. There is a law that ensures that this is done with a certain rhythm. There is a governance set up that includes both the stakeholders and the directors by sector, but also integral and cross-cutting issues. So there's an operating machine on it. Both through the sectors and administratively, this is governed by legislation. It all comes together. So that coherence is there. There are still some missing links, because the spatial section and the organisation of the market still need to be looked at. So there's going to be a National Energy Main Structure Programme. That's the spatial content of the NOVI. That's the next chunk of cohesion. Then we have the government's vision of the market organization, because we need to know who pays what and who pays where. Those things are done. Now two or three of the Members present here say: but wait a minute, is that the same coherence in the legislative programme? I think that's a good question. I see that everything runs through one ministerial committee. Every two or three weeks we sit with the same colleagues to look at the whole legislative programme and all the decisions taken there. That is the so-called Ministerial Committee on Climate and Energy, a small club that focuses entirely on this. Of course, we have a kind of overarching progress consultation, in which we keep looking at what is going well and what is not going well. But I still think the call makes sense. I'm very sensitive to that. I would like to undertake to think about how to convert some sort of legislative calendar into a legislative programme. The only way to get it into a legislative programme is to make it clear its coherence. Such consistency may be in timing or in preventing counter-productive effects. I don't think there are any, but when I say, "I don't think there are any," I guess I'm not quite sure. So I think that is a sensible appeal. I'm gonna have to take my time. I won't finish it in January. I am not yet making a commitment, but a hypothesis, a determination. Let me try to get it done before the summer in programme form rather than in the legislative calendar as we have it now. This is a call from Mrs Mulder. Mr Van der Lee has also asked for this, but perhaps I am doing someone short now, because I thought it would come back again. I think we are well on the way to cohesion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u149	Thank you to the Minister for this intention. I do not think I should call it a commitment, although it already sounds like a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u150	I'll think about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u151	Yes. I appreciate that there is coherence in the package. The Minister also wrote this in response to the opinion of the Council of State. But I think that the Council of State points out that even more coherence needs to be created in the elaboration, implementation and details. I think that the Council of State is also right in saying that there needs to be more coherence in time. There's a lot of focus on 2030, but we have to go to 2050. There too, coherence must be strengthened. That is how I understand the Council of State, not as a criticism in the sense of 'it's all wrong'. In detail and time, cohesion must be promoted. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u152	Well, look, that's why I'm making the commitment. If I'd thought it was all bullshit, I'd have thought it was bullshit. Every now and then I think there's something big bullshit, but I see the point here. We come to legislation here, the ultimate means of government. I think it would be useful to ensure that there is more coherence there through the no regret 2050, the timing and not taking contrary measures. I'm gonna work that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u153	And we'll have that effect for the next summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u154	That's my working hypothesis, but I'm gonna check it out. I don't do this all by myself. So I'm gonna check it out. I play with the thought that it won't be finished in a month, but when it comes in a year, we all look at each other weird. This answer therefore has a certain logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u155	The minister's moving like hell. He came over the edge of the table with the fingercoot of his pinkie. That's not enough to grab the whole hand. But in my speech I said that it would also be good to develop more vision and some plans and scenarios on a number of points. I mentioned the alternative to air traffic, but we know that there are also a number of spatial issues. We need a reforestation programme in the Netherlands. The Minister has just referred to the NOVI. We also have a long-term climate strategy, but there are still white spots in it. How does the Minister intend to fill those white spots?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u156	In the end, planning goes step by step. I have just explained all kinds of connections along all conceivable dimensions, spatial, financial, climate and over time. That coherence is there, but that does not mean that we know everything now. Let me give you an example. Many years ago I may have been a spectator, but Mr Moorlag, as I have read in many ways, had a very sensible direct involvement in stimulating renewable energy in the North. That's what we're thinking now, gradually, different than before. We've learned how to do it and how not to do it. Probably we haven't learned yet, but things are also forming gradually. If we were to say "this is going to be the neighborhood approach" until 2050, we would probably be wrong. So we have to point the way along all these dimensions. We do, but we have to keep supplementing our catalogue. Part of the book is still being written while we're at it. We must also allow ourselves to do so. I am sure that in five years' time we will be doing much more inspiring than we are at the moment. That's a white stain, but that's a named white stain. That stain is now being filled by people working on it. Not everything's finished. It's also a trip to 2050 and we still have 30 years to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u157	To a large extent, I agree with the Minister. We must opt for the adaptive approach, but there are already a number of issues that are already emerging very sharply. The number of flights has increased in eight, nine years from 50 million to 80 million. The number of short-haul flights is about 50,000. We already know that there must be an alternative to this. We know that we need to plan reforestation spatially. I went to the Chemelot complex last summer. That's where they're thinking about hydrogen. Then you should start thinking about how to get hydrogen from the offshore wind farms to that area. You shouldn't pour that into concrete. I am in favour of not just looking at working ways, but of really looking at them along the lines of the scenarios. Of course, they can also be adjusted. In my view, this is also the Council's call for the environment and infrastructure. He says there should be a little more direction from the government, but not in a fine way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u158	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u159	No, definitely not. I'm not a fan of fine at all, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u160	Well, you're going really fast now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u161	No, but in itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u162	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u163	My question is whether the Minister shares my view that the dillemas that are already emerging should be...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u165	Look, at that abstraction level, yes. Because if we don't work out all these aspects right now, we won't have anything in five years. For example, when Mr Moorlag talks about hydrogen, his appreciation of the hydrogen effort is too light. There's a whole hydrogen program. All kinds of parties are involved. That's what subsidy money is for. That amounts to 40 million to 60 million a year. Over a period of ten years, that will be 0.5 billion in hydrogen work. That's what we do with a lot of countries together. I have spoken twice with my direct colleague in Germany about hydrogen. For hydrogen, we do a lot of things. In the case of reforestation, I must remain guilty of the answer. I admit, honestly, I'm not standing my man in the woods. In the case of flights, I think Mr Moorlag has a point. That is not something the Netherlands can do on its own. As far as I am concerned, the alternatives to emission-rich air traffic are still in the back of the column and bicycles are not for the peloton. I agree with him. I will pass that on to my colleague who is working on it. But I tend to follow Mr Moorlag's assessment there. In the field of hydrogen, I would like to make a plea for the creation of a leading position. In abstract terms, I agree with Mr Moorlag, I admit. If you don't work on something, it won't. I'm going back to Mr Van der Lee. He asks, "Give me the catalog." Mr Van Otterloo also asked such a question about 1% of agriculture. But Mr Van der Lee asks: what do you have to do to get 9 megatons? There is no exhaustive list. I cannot draw up an exhaustive list of measures to achieve this. The Urgenda Foundation is now at 43, I believe. 40 plus 3, but I've been promised more. Maybe it's 45 by now, but I haven't looked in my mailbox for two days. But no, I'm not gonna make the ultimate list. I'm not gonna philosophize about things the cabinet isn't gonna do. I'm gonna come up with things we're gonna do. There's a motion. I embraced this Van der Lee motion. I think it's sensible and I'm going to do it. There are no guarantees. This is an extremely complex task and I often have headaches. The Future Explore Welvaart and the Environment is a background scenario for 2050. It is indeed some years old. We have just had the work programmes of the Planning Office for the Environment and the CPB in the Council of Ministers. We have no control over that. Those are independent agencies. If they look at this debate, they may see it as an announcement. Frankly, I am keeping some distance from independent planning agencies here because otherwise it is a little too much "you ask, we run." Sometimes planning agencies think that something else is useful to work out. When they do, it turns out they do. So I'm a little reluctant with these kind of calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u166	I understand. I respect that in itself. At the same time, it would be a good idea for the Minister to say with me that it would be very useful to have another reconnaissance in the short term. Why do I say that, also in response to the opinion of the Council of State? When it comes to what we have to do up to 2050, that is not enough. In addition, where the minister always insisted on cost-effectiveness, he always said: from the perspective of 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u167	Yeah, I keep saying that. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u168	But that perspective isn't very sharp. With this you can see that in terms of cost-effectiveness we seem to steer over a somewhat shorter period, which makes the goals seem less easy to achieve. At least that's my concern. Let us then find each other that it is important that we have that exploration again in the coming years, also for a next coalition, for a next cabinet, in order to be able to make these follow-up steps well thought out and with common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u169	I have just outlined to Mr Moorlag that when you think about the future, you're going to talk about other things as they go further away and that you're going to do things less precisely. At European level, we have had to make a long-term vision. If you go through it, you'll see that it doesn't say what 2050 looks like, but it does say what we need to do now to make sure we get to no-regret results in 2050. That has more to do with maneuverability, with multiple horse betting. This has to do with basic infrastructure and with a good monitoring and measurement system so that you always know what you are doing. If we ask the CPB to make us a nice picture for 2050, I don't think we know anymore. We already calculate and work with experts and planning agencies looking to the future. We must realise that if we get two estimates from the PBL within six weeks, we do not know the answer by 2050, just as we do not know the weather before 2050, but we do know what we have to do to get there in one piece. And that's about other things, and we wrote them down. That too is part of this story. But I also assume that the planning agencies will hear this suggestion from Mr Van der Lee via digital channels. I think they're loyal viewers. Then governance. Am I to understand that Mrs Mulder specifically asked the question of how this is controlled and who is the boss? She too strayed, I think, in the direction of the strong man. At least I had that idea. That can't be because of me. In all kinds of ways there is control, but there are two cores around which the rest is all around. One of the engines is the implementation of these sectors. It happens in those sectors. These sectors, of course, tend to do what is good for their own sector and not for the sector as well. So there's all these structures over there. That's what I'm in. So I periodically look at how all these sectors are doing and whether they are still in line with each other and whether they are not opposing each other, but one of the two or three areas where it is happening is formed by the sectors. They come together very intensively. This includes not only the sectors but also some horizontal issues such as financing, circular, labour market and spatial planning. That's the heart. The second is that there is an administrative consultation with all the directors of all governments. That means we have the provinces and the municipalities all at the table. Everyone will tell us where it works but also where it doesn't work and where one needs help from the other. The third is what happens in this room. That's the legislative program we have then. You're giving control here. So we're gonna go through those rotary discs. It's all assisted structures, but that's how we steer, of course. That's very intense. We've wasted a lot of time with that. Most of the time, it's fun. The RES-consultations are also very lively but, as far as I am concerned, in an extremely good atmosphere. Mr Moorlag had heard critical noises about this. Well, if there's a lot of people involved in it, it's probably not hard to hear a critical sound and there'll really be some comments on it, but my perception is that it's really going there and that there are untruthful people involved in a very productive way and there's definitely some control on it. Mrs Mulder asks about the letter from Aedes: do we count on the good costs? There's an investigation going on. I think that concerns the Ronnes motion. It's running. There will be results of that before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u170	Just a few more moments on the previous subject: steering. We are just getting a lot of questions about this: what happens now? In the energy agreement, there was some sort of safeguards committee. For the sake of clarity, I am not saying that this should be done immediately. But one of the good things about that was, at least I hear from the people involved, that it provided some overall coordination and guidance to get things right and move on. That, or something similar, misses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u171	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u172	I don't hear that. Or it's there, but it hasn't been explained that clearly yet. That's possible, but at least that question sounds strong. I think it would be a good idea if we answered it more clearly tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u173	Well, thank you. Look, the bail committee tapped people who didn't keep their end of the bargain. In this agreement, the steering is much more detailed. In each sector, parties who do not comply with the agreements are targeted, but their direction is much more detailed and much more complex. It is also true that the government has a greater role in this. Look, the energy agreement had to be organized through the SDE auctions, but here there is a lot more spatial interaction and much more intervention, including audience, in terms of developing techniques. We've gotten the wind-on-the-sea costs down by allowing parties to offer this. Period. Here we are dealing with hydrogen to some extent, and even with neighbouring countries. So it is incredibly much harder to achieve a whole transition compared to the petajoules of the energy agreement. The guarantee is therefore much more extensive. We have even left the whole monitoring and assurance, and following it, not only to a committee of assurance, but to the planning agency every time. There is even a law under which we must answer to this Chamber. It is therefore much more detailed and not more concise. But I do understand that there are a lot of questions about it, because everyone sees only one piece of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u174	The whole point is that there is also a lot on the board of directors/politicians, and that is not generally the best project managers, I say honestly. So there is a difference between competence and talent. My concern is, and I hear that much back, that the exact alignment... Take hydrogen, for example. How much goes on hydrogen and how much goes on the electricity infrastructure? And how do we make sure that that can be done on that electric oven, with which some roof oven can get out of its way? This is very difficult, and it is also very important for the investment decision of such a company. Now there's too much unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u175	Well, I don't know. It is not a question of governance that much is unclear. Take, for example, electricity versus hydrogen. Very detailed studies have been carried out by Gasunie and TenneT, i.e. officials of the Ministry of EZK. Is it all clear? No, because it also depends on which technology will develop more. Hydrogen is now a factor of ten too expensive for some applications, but here again we have to develop it all, keep all possibilities in sight and switch at the last possible moment, with the most knowledge. So we can't fill out the whole future until 2050. We can and are now in the process of preparing for it. Do we already know which neighborhood, which industry and what energy demand will be electrically or by hydrogen? No, we don't know that yet, but we are working on all these things and there are impressive studies about them, which have not been done by governments but by parties who know about them, in this case Gasunie and TenneT.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u176	It's about the same point. The Minister indicated that the guarantee is more detailed but also more complex. He literally said, "Everyone sees only a little bit." My question would therefore be: who sees the whole thing? Who is monitoring the coherence of this whole energy transition that is now going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u177	This is done within the sectors in the presentation of progress in these sectors. All the leaders of these sectors meet regularly to discuss whether it is still running in parallel. We've got the planning agencies around there that charge it every year. And it's this Chamber that gets all that reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u178	I hear what the minister says, and yet it's wringing somewhere. I see that the energy transition in the country is getting off the ground in very different ways. On the one hand, that is a plus, because one region is not the other. At the same time, you see that there is a lack of an integral vision, an integral direction. So if something goes wrong, then who's responsible? Then we can't just keep pointing to that particular region, can we? Then I am addressed here in the Chamber, then I go to the Minister and the Minister says: no, I am not about that, the PBL reports and everything, but the responsibility lies in the region. However, I think that you will have to shape that energy transition with each other and there will have to be some sort of central control somewhere. Mr. Putin has passed by a few times; I absolutely do not. But there must be someone who can be addressed to that. That's what's missing from this whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u179	No, I don't believe that. If we had to rely on central control for all energy users, for all regions, over time, then we would be doing really wrong. Then we're overestimating ourselves. For example, we have the RESs. Each region has its own spatial breakdown. The coherence is that together we are the task. The overall'sustainable on land' challenge is again linked to what we can do at sea. So there's a connection in that. That all adds up. It must be completed regionally. There are choices to be made, and they will be different for one region than for the other. But for all of us there are add-ons to ensure that it can all be financed and that it is right about the electricity grids again, because they are involved again and they are part of the RES's. So it's not like we're doing everything at the center. We keep a central eye on the fact that eventually it all adds up and knocks. That is done very carefully. Once a year we have here the Climate Day on which we can see it all. Once a year we have the results of the monitoring so we can see exactly which party delivers at the tables. But no, it's not like we're just running the country from The Hague. That would be unwise, too. We have seen this in many areas. The overall check is done regularly, there is guidance on it, but a lot of it is filled in regionally. And a lot of them are filled in sectorally. I am not going to determine what the steel industry looks like in 2040, but the steel industry is working on it. In fact, she'll know she's gonna be dependent on chemistry. And the chemistry knows that, too. And they're in a project together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u180	Mr. Van der Lee, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u181	Thank you, because I do want to get on with this. I would like to ask the Minister to address the role of the MCKE and the ACKE, the Ministerial Committee on Climate and Energy and the Public Committee on Climate and Energy. Otherwise, I think the answer to the question of who is now politically responsible goes a little wrong. I think that is the question from the Chamber. That is the minister as a coordinating director, but there is a ministerial sub-committee and there is even an official committee. I don't know what level these officials are at. Perhaps the Minister could explain a little more about how this is going to work and to whom we can knock when we see that things go wrong in coherence and in governance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u182	The coordinating ruler is me. So you can knock on my door. At the same time, we know that there are co-responsibilityal responsibilities for certain sectors by the professional executives. I can come across in coordination something that is going on in the agricultural sector. Then I'll speak to the Minister of Agriculture. It is also up to the Chamber, and that is where the Minister for Agriculture can be directly addressed. This also applies to the built environment and mobility. So far, we've done it like this all the time. We've been at it for two years, and it's going on. I've never had a dissperate MP come to me to ask which ruler he was supposed to be with. That problem has not yet arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u183	Finally, I would like to ask the following question. The Vice-President of the Council of State said in a discussion that we had with him because he himself was once a coordinating ruler, that the problem of a coordinating ruler in our state system is that you do get a role, but not a mandate to really fulfil that role. My specific question is then: what is the role of the Prime Minister in this? I understand from your response to the Council of State that he is chairman of the ministerial committee. Should I think of him as Mr Nijpels, when it comes to the Committee on Security and Cooperation, and the trade ministers as chairmen of the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u184	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u185	But can you indicate the difference between the responsibility in this area of the mp and yours?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u186	I do not think we should compare the mp with Mr Nijpels. I think you'll surprise two people at the same time. The mp is just the mp. We are not going to explain the state system in a debate on the KEV. Because the mp presides over the ministerial council, he's also ahead of underwear. These are subsets of the Council of Ministers. I am not going to talk about what is underneath the administration, but everything is being prepared for the administration and so is this. We have coordinating executives in all kinds of areas. I'm from Climate, and that's where I'm approachable. I ensure coherence and, ultimately, direct policy. Provided that this is in line with the Climate Agreement and the climate objectives, the various directors are ultimately responsible for the implementation. This means that these colleagues are directly accountable by the Chamber and in the Chamber. I, as a coordinating person, am also approachable to this, albeit that I do not know everything and will sometimes refer or go after it. In the latter case, I'm gonna grab on to the colleague and we're gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u187	The Minister had just dropped the issue of Aedes. I had my interruption on that, or I wanted my interruption on that. I would like the Minister to give me a more extensive appreciation of the letter from Aedes and the House Union, because it brings together a number of elements. These are the effects of the measures as calculated, the cost of the measures, the energy level and climate neutrality. In a four-minute debate, it is difficult to pronounce all these things. That is why I would like the Minister's undertaking to give a qualified appreciation of the letter from Aedes, in which he addresses the points that Aedes has mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u188	This should be involved in the examination of the task of cooperatives in relation to the resources of cooperatives. That's the execution of the Ronnes motion. It hasn't been implemented yet, but we're working on it. They also work with Aedes. Principles have been laid down for this sustainability, which are involved in the financial transfers. As soon as that is done, that will be before the summer, my colleague from BZK will inform the Chamber. On a half-finished calculation, I still have little text, especially if it is on the premises of BZK. It's coming, but not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u189	However, it is now indicated, as a result of the KEV, that there are gaps between the figures used by the Planning Office for the Environment and the figures they have themselves. I would like to have an idea of what is happening there sooner than six months from now. Soon there will be a new round of rent increases and all kinds of things will have to happen again. I would like much more speed on the specific points relating to Aedes, which I believe are next to the Ronnes motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u190	I can only pledge what the Minister of State has promised on this matter. That is that the research will be ready for the summer and that research will provide an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u191	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u192	If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u194	I understand. I will not say that the whip has to go over it with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but there can be a bit more speed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u195	I'll pass on the urgency. Do you want me to do that? I think that's better than a whip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u196	Fine. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u197	I think the Minister should realize that there is just a great deal of displeasure here in the Chamber. I do not have the impression that he is going to leave here now, but I think he should think about it under the Christmas tree. The picture with me is that we address business. We are representatives of the people. Then it's said, no, but we put it there and there. It's like an organization with all self-directing teams! That makes me feel really uncomfortable. Such a legislative agenda... Take Mrs Dik-Faber's question: sun on the roof. Then you think, "Well, that's not so complicated, is it? That goes into the existing system and it is said that it is not possible. You should have a number of key drivers who really do this, just like when the Climate Agreement was being drawn up. Then there's the point of Aedes. Aedes is sending a signal to us. Tenants are concerned, we are concerned and the Minister says: yes, well, I might talk to my colleague about it and the Ronnes motion is still being discussed. That way it all falls into an unclear administrative swamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u198	I don't recognize that. If we think that we can only steer along the lines of sectors, then we are ignoring the fact that there is simply a very large spatial impact in regions. We can't just roll over that. So it is also wise that some things are decentralised. Self-directing teams? It's just called Thorbecke's house. There are municipalities, provinces and regions that have to decide certain things themselves. They do so on behalf of their residents. There, too, there are people's representatives and directors who have choices to make. We must also think along the lines of sectors. We do this relatively centrally, recognising that the government does not design steel factories. We work with regions, where we are dealing with other democracies. At any time it is clear which part of, for example, the task on land... We will be able to tell just how much'sustainable on land' there is in which region and in what form. Then we'll see if that all adds up to the total. But I'm not going to decide for a region what to do. That's unwise, too. It's not all in sectors. There are many more cuts. Society is a little more complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u199	The Minister is really ignoring the point I wanted to make. I did not advocate a sectoral approach. I did say that it might be good if you put a little more coordination in a number of sectors. There are a lot of parties responsible, but no one is solely responsible and it is very opaque. From this Chamber it is said: look at governance. I began by saying that the Minister will not give way. That was a correct assessment, but I would advise the Minister to think about this under the Christmas tree. Some of these problems do not get along and are stuck in the mud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u200	What's stuck in the mud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u201	A promise is made to the population that the built environment can be residentially neutral. If we see such a letter from Aedes, isn't that extremely worrying? I would also like to mention Mrs Dik-Faber's question. As a chamber, as a legislative power, we would like to see sunshine on rooftops. What's the point of that? Those are a few small examples. I mentioned the example of the HSL lines. The minister says there's not everything to draw. I can tell the Minister that at the end of the 1950s, in the early 1960s, the entire main road network of the Netherlands was already drawn up and, apart from a small amount of time, was also realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u202	Yes, but spatially, the Netherlands is so organized. That also means that we have to do the integration regionally. Look, a letter from Aedes... We get ten letters every week; there are sometimes very sensible things in there. But with those letters, something happens. I just sat with the heat companies, just before this debate, to discuss again: how do we make it work? Housing costs neutrality has been the subject of discussion there. It's being worked on all the time. But I don't think it's weird that, in my coordinating role, I give the Minister of State the room to conduct a proper investigation that the Chamber has asked for. And no, I'm not gonna be able to say that you have it in January, if it's scheduled for the summer. I'm sorry, but I'm not going to my colleague... The whip has been mentioned, but I'm not gonna do that. We're working on it. We have not finished everything today, but that is at the heart of my speech. We're gonna work through that. We have a vision of both regional and overall task and total legislation. I think we need to re-direct and intervene in one piece. It happens all day. If nothing had happened, I wouldn't have been with the heat companies at all. We're working on that in one piece. And yes, there are five names in this direction from the sectors; I did not suggest that you should only do it from the sectors, but Mr Moorlag mentioned the direction from sectors. There are people who interfere with that much of their time. They're doing this. Those are with all the parties in the rifle. They come to the meeting and say: there are a few things that are not right. We have to change it all the time. It often doesn't take letters. That happens in those sectors, at those tables, with those people who have signed up to it. That's what's happening right now. It's not finished right away. It's not finished next year either. That big picture is gradually forming. We're gonna see it every year. Then we know what's behind, what's ahead, what's going well and what's not going well. That's the only way to do it. Is that a solid governance? Yeah, I think it's very firm. I find him very firm, but indeed: no, it is not one person who is about everything. That's impossible, too. I think so. Thinking under the Christmas tree: I don't have a Christmas tree. I will, however, do so, but I would ask for a commitment back. I would be grateful if Mr Moorlag could give us his idea of the substance of the matter. Just be serious. Then I'm gonna think about it, but then I'm gonna want a substantive idea. Because just saying "it's not working out," knowing what's going on, isn't good either. Mr Moorlag will confirm that. I want his substantive idea about governance. What could be better? Then I'm gonna read it and think about it. Not under a tree; trees belong outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u203	I was about to start talking about biomass and trees, but that is not exactly the intention. Mr. Chairman. I think it's complicated. The Climate Agreement falls or stands with popular support. For a lot of people, the sustainability of their homes or the adjustments really hang over their heads like a sword of Damocles. Now the Minister, or the Cabinet, has promised with the Climate Agreement: yes, but wait, people, you are not going backwards. You call that "living expenses neutrality"; fine. But that's the idea: people don't go backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u204	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u205	That's already being questioned. It is precisely for the sake of acceptance that it is important that you do not say 'yes, we will do something before the summer, with an investigation; come to another minister', but that you say 'whatever comes out, that residential neutrality, or the promise that one does not go backwards, stay'. That's not such a difficult repeat, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u206	No. The cost-neutrality of living remains unchanged. You cannot guarantee this for every household, but that is on average the starting point. That just stays there. If there are calculations that say "I doubt this number or that number," then that will be sorted out. It's being investigated now. Housing expenses neutrality is important. If we knock on people's door to tell them that their housing costs are going up, then the support is quickly gone. I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u207	Yes, but this answer is again really clinging to two thoughts. You say, "If you ring people's bells and say they're gonna pay a lot more, you're gonna lose the support." I agree. You also say: yes, but on average people need to improve on it. But on average, it's nothing. I can turn my stove to 25, but that doesn't mean that there aren't also people who are already in energy poverty and who can turn it to 17. On average, you get to a good temperature, but that doesn't help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u208	No, but now it's getting a little drawn into the extreme. For example, when we talk about purchasing power or whatever, we look at it fairly finely, more finely, than in any other country. We all know that there are individuals for whom it is different. Some people are above it. We have a point cloud. It is not possible to send a result for each Dutch individual. Mrs. Beckerman doesn't suggest that either, but in her precision, she did shoot through a bit. It is possible to offer a large amount of modo a non-commodity package. That's a stake that stands. If someone says "the numbers are no good," or "I think it's different," we're gonna dive in there. If necessary, we can fix the numbers again. But it's still a path. It can't be predicted until 2050, but this has to be the bet. If we can't do that at first, we'll just have to do something about it. There's this room. Housing expenses neutrality is important. I acknowledge that. But then I'm going to go to Mrs. Mulder's school boards. What are the obstacles to school administration? The Minister of BZK has approached the school authorities about all the possibilities for making their buildings more sustainable. There are all kinds of support programs from BZK, which I don't know by heart. For the financing of energy savings, e.g. roof insulation or solar panels, school boards can use schemes such as the Energy Savings Loan Schools. There is also a platform for sustainability of social real estate. There all sectors are supported, but also schools, with very practical advice on what to do with your school. We are working with all the departments involved about social real estate. Of course, different departments have different social real estate. As soon as the inventory is complete, I'll inform the Chamber. Completely in line with the previous point: if bottlenecks arise, we will have to resolve them. It's not finished in one go; I keep saying that. Let me put it this way: I continue to acknowledge that. I'm not saying it's finished either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u209	One of the bottlenecks is that there are insurers who have difficulty in securing a sunroof. I would like to see that bottleneck removed. One of the ways to do this is the example in Belgium. That came to my attention, but well, the minister will be able to investigate it further with his team. There they simply work with a label and have considerably less burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u210	That's important. In the Netherlands we also have a quality mark: Suncoat. That was set up with experts from RVO. This label lays down requirements not only on the products but also on the installation and on the installers. That could be a direction; I acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u211	Is the Minister prepared to talk to the insurance sector? There they may not know enough about the label, or at least they do not take it with them. The effect is that too little insurance can be provided, we have heard. Surely that can't be an obstacle for the coming year to realize a sun on the roof?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u212	No, that shouldn't be an obstacle. Let's see what that does in the overall list of obstacles. Things that are barriers, we just have to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u213	When will we get any further reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u214	I don't have any timing. This is what we do with BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u215	But that's okay for April 1st, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u216	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u217	A careful yawn. Can we gradually move towards a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u218	I am working very hard, but I have more work to do on the interruptions in between than to answer the original questions. Recycling of solar panels. Solar panels are covered by the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive. A system for the recovery and recycling of waste solar panels has been developed. That is not going so fast, because fortunately there are still few solar panels being disposed of. But the system is there. Mrs. Beckerman is asking how she's doing with her motion. When advising, I said that I found this motion to express the policy as it was. There is a passing on of the Climate Agreement, with the agreement itself having an upward impact on the incomes of the lowest income groups. I've just answered the question of housing costs neutrality. Mr Sienot asks when the CO levy will be introduced. I assume he means the CO levy for industry. The Secretary of State for Finance is working hard on this. In spring 2020, that levy will be subject to consultation and should enter into force from 2021. This means a considerable effort on the part of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u219	My question was: when is there going to be an investigation into the best stimulating effect? This concerns the amount of the fine and the degree of exemption. How do we deal with this intelligently, especially in the light of the ETS that is likely to develop faster now? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u220	Ah, a good point. We said we'd have the malus level calibrated by the Planning Office for the Environment. I'll see if that's done with the consultation at the same time. That's gonna come in the second term. That's what we'd be investigating. We had not yet chiseled that in concrete, because there too we wanted to work with the latest insights. Thanks for the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u221	I also asked a question about this in my term. The CO levy is worked out in a law. This question must have been answered, but I would appreciate it if we as a Chamber would also have the knowledge necessary for the design of a levy to achieve not 14.3 but 19 megatons of CO reduction. Purely informative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u222	The answer will surprise you. The extra task was of course 14.3, but the total task was 19. The legislation that comes to the Chamber is aimed at 19, because that is basic path-plus. Now Mr Van der Lee is going to say: if there is another five on top now. I have to say honestly, no, this kind of sensitivity analysis... As soon as we strengthen ambition at European level, this is the first thing we are going to do. Now let me focus on what needs to be done. Otherwise, we will lose ourselves in all sorts of more theoretical explanations. Mr Sienot asked about the FME project. This is an approach to achieving and financing industrial energy efficiency. I think that is a project to be welcomed, but it is not the Empire that deals with how industry achieves its goals. FME guarantees a broad awareness of this. It is very welcomed. I have answered Mr Moorlag's question about the system jumps and the hydrogen. He also asks about the CO2 tax. The legislative machine is now in full swing. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the energy tax. I just answered that. I would like to dwell on the fact that Mrs Dik-Faber has the unpleasant feeling that the ball of the energy transition is being placed too much among the residents. I do not think that should be true in any case with the people who are in the neighbourhood approach. The core of the approach in the built environment and thus also the core of where it plays a role is the neighbourhood approach. In this approach, the nearest government, namely the municipality, must really stand its ground with everything: both in the financing and in the way it should be done as well as in the timing, the help, the support and the care. Mrs. Dik-Faber used a very beautiful term, "the government as an ally." But if there's an ally for the neighborhood approach, it's that municipality. Municipalities are aware of this, but they also admit that they still need to develop this approach. They're working on it in the test areas now. We have also been able to read in the newspaper over the last two years how this sometimes dissipates and how people do not think the government is their ally at all and do not feel dissipated at all, so that does not always go well. As far as I am concerned, however, that is at the heart of what is acceptable. As we used to connect people to the gas grid or the water mains and the sewers, so now it has to go with the other way of heating your house. People need to feel like they're being taken away, that together with the street and the neighborhood they're starting a joint adventure where they see the end point again. We need to keep an eye on that. I am convinced that Mrs Dik-Faber is right that we do not always make that happen. As soon as we know what happened in those test areas and we see the report figures, we may see that we still have a lot to learn there, but this is quite the approach. There is a government at the door with a wide palette, including funding, to relieve the citizen and be an ally. That's what we designed this on. Here too, I like to hear it when Mrs Dik-Faber gets signals that we do not make it happen at all in certain places. I am not going to talk about individual cases here, but I am always going to tell you where it is and I am always willing to send out signals to those who are going about it. If that is Mrs Dik-Faber's impression and if she can make that more precise, then I am very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u223	I have a lot of conversations with people. I notice that there is a large group who reads the newspapers, who sees what is happening in Madrid and who sees that a European Green Deal has been concluded. They think: I want to take a step too. But they don't know what that can be and where they can go for it. They won't be able to knock on the door to the government. I have often had an exchange of views with the Minister on the energy points. There aren't any of them in every county. There are subsidy schemes, but not all of them are found. There's gonna be a heat fund, but it's still got to be set aside. At the same time, I see a government that is perfectly capable of informing society about the Postcode lottery and the fattening of the state treasury. If we can approach people in all living rooms in this way, which is not my group's preference, then surely it should be possible for something good like the energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u224	Yeah, I actually think so. I can't argue with that. By the way, those ads that have been mentioned create a huge annoyance, but that means that they often reach you. Look, every Dutchman must have access to an energy window. That doesn't always mean it's in his congregation, but that might make it difficult to find. There is a campaign, but it is not yet the experience of Mrs Dik-Faber that the citizen knows where to go as a result of that campaign. Nor does it have the impression that people are able to find these subsidy schemes. Let me say that I am going to take a look at that, because it remains a struggle to inform every household about what it can do and sometimes, in a single case, to do so. I'm gonna go over that seduction strategy with the campaign team again. I would not take the Postcode lottery one-on-one as an example, but the pervasiveness of that campaign has been noticed by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u225	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I hope he wants to inform the Chamber about how he intends to handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u226	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u227	I would like to stress once again that we are going to learn a lot from the neighbourhood approach. Then the government is indeed an ally. But I see a very large group of Dutch people who want to, but wonder: how? I think it would be good to serve those groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u228	So it is the people who are not yet in a neighbourhood approach, but who do want to get going. Those people are harder to reach. I'll get back to you on that. We have a campaign team. I'm sure that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u229	I have just called my colleague, Mr Ronnes, because he has tabled the motion to which reference was made. This motion is about: what are all the financial data relating to the financial position? That's the motion; I just checked. We also had contact with each other about this. I understood from my colleague, Mr Ronnes, that the deficit raised by Aedes is not necessarily in this motion. Then it is important for the Minister to ring the bell with his fellow minister for a moment to check exactly what is going on with this particular point, otherwise you will probably not come out with your money. Then it'll be an annoying thing and maybe we'll get the scenarios Mrs Beckerman sketches. He doesn't want the SP, but neither does the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u230	Clear. Okay, good. I'll pass that on. Here too, it helps to be precise in my direction. This does not have to be done through this debate, but with a clear e-mail about what the CDA or the SP think is not enough. Then I'll be able to pass on that substantiated. When I take messages and pass them on, I like some precision. Yeah? I will! If we're investigating things now but leaving out important things, then there's no point in it either. A fundamental question from Mrs Dik-Faber is whether the government should not step forward and, for example, bear the cost of grid congestion. We have a climate agreement and a government agreement, but it is faint to point that out. It's, I think, a philosophical question that may be asked. At least I'm not gonna take any steps in that now. We must now move on to the climate agreement. In the Climate Agreement, however, a study has been announced on the stability of the ODE. The ODE is the animal that grows. It will fall sharply next year, but then there will be a certain growth again. I'd like to take it with me, but I'd like to give you one warning. You can deal with net costs in three ways, for example. You can allocate grid costs to the user, you can charge grid costs to the energy supplier or you can collect grid costs tax. In all cases, it comes down to people, to us. One is not, in principle, more burden-reliefing than the other. In fact, the use of networks is roughly half of households, but the tax system accounts for more than half of households. So the question is whether you're getting along with it. We all see that the energy bill is an important point in support. There's a runaway in there. It's going down sharp now, but then there's a certain rise in it. What's important is what we do with it. I'd like to include that in the announced investigation into the resistance of the ODE. I haven't finished that yet, but it's in the Climate Agreement. I want to do it that way. That is my intention. Mr Van Raan made a flaming speech. He asked me about Urgenda, but I answered it right at the beginning. Mr Van Raan also asked when we were going to translate 55% into policy. With the 55% policy, we want to try to convince Europe to increase ambition. Two years ago, no one felt like that at all. Meanwhile, we have a Green Deal, with 50% to 55%. This is among other things the work of the Netherlands. We did not say that, in anticipation of the rest, we would increase the ambition from 49% to 55%. We have said that, as soon as European ambition is increased, we will, of course, take our part in it. That is still exactly the intention. We've made a lot of progress, because two years ago, everyone thought we'd stick to 40%. Then there was a glimpse of hope for 45% and now we are at 50% to 55%. The Netherlands has been very active, very active in lobbying for this. This applies not only to the cabinet, but also to many people from this Chamber, I say in all honesty. And that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u231	I missed this answer to my contribution. I asked: how will the Minister contribute to the success of the Green Deal? Because the Green Deal isn't a done deal yet. As a follow-up: the lessons we have learned to get the European countries to something like climate-neutral by 2050. How, for example, can we apply it to other continents, so that we can get it to a higher level? What's the temptation strategy? So these are the two points: successful Green Deal and the seduction strategy for other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u232	In the appreciation of the Green Deal, let us talk further about how we can then promote it. Then the cabinet will put it down via a chip, but I expect a letter to do so too; that seems to me to be useful. Then we can discuss in detail what is the road from now on towards the other countries. I didn't want to do that tonight, but I did when we got those pieces on the table. Then on the strategy to other regions of the world. That is actually what Mr Sienot is asking for. That is the most high-profile question of this whole debate, but it is a very interesting question. I really do. I said in Madrid, but also the year before, that there is only one region in the world that can take the lead here and has the knowledge, the prosperity and the will to do something about it, and that is Europe. There are no other regions in the world of any size that want to take this lead in this way. So we lead. But that's only attractive if you can get the rest quickly. I do not go into the details, but my colleagues in the climate at European level, in cooperation with the Commission, are giving detailed consideration to what strategies we are pursuing to which regions to obtain them. This is considerably more likely in some directions than in others. The word 'trick' is complicated there, but let us say that, in balancing interests between regions in the world, parties must be encouraged to make choices in the field of climate. Can I keep it that cryptic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u233	Speaking of the Green Deal. The Minister states that there will be an assessment. We're looking forward to that. Would the Minister be willing to take the following with him? At the moment, Europe, the EU itself, is actually one of the drivers of the climate crisis in which we find ourselves, whether it is about the current agricultural policy, trade deals, or even monetary policy. Think of quantitative easing, which is particularly beneficial to the fossil industry. Is the Minister prepared to include these aspects in that appreciation of the Green Deal? 'Cause they're a little hidden now. It seems as if Europe has very good ambitions, but at the moment Europe is one of the main drivers of the climate crisis. So is the Minister prepared to do that? That would seem very good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u234	Mr Van Raan points out that we have a large footprint. Can I put it this way? In response to what Mr Van Raan is now saying outside the microphone: that's right, I'm sure. Still, I didn't want to do it like that. I appreciate that Mr Van Raan is showing his world-reforming vision in almost every question. I appreciate that very much, but I simply want to make it appreciated, so I would like to address the question of how we feel about the various measures laid down in the Green Deal. In any case, we have different goals. It's about more than just climate in the Green Deal. This is also about biodiversity and air quality and is about health in many ways, including food. He'll get that broad appreciation, but that's what I want to stick with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u235	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u236	Rounding up. That's nice. It is really not the world reform policy that Mr Van Raan is doing. The Minister makes that mistake more often. It is simply the advice and scientific reports that say that we really need to reform our agricultural policy, that we really need to look at how we are restructuring trade deals, and that we really need to look at how we do not allow quantitative easing to benefit fossil companies. That has nothing to do with Mr. Van Raan, but that has just to do with the fact that we have to change those cases. Europe is one of the causes of climate change at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u237	I also give a sincere compliment to Mr Van Raan that he is able to spread his world-reforming tendencies in each of his questions, and these are not the questions of scientists or anything else, but those are his questions. I acknowledge that there are all scientists who have worked on everything, that we have a big footprint and that everything has to happen. But I tried to give a compliment. You're right, you're right! Next time, I'm gonna give you an insincere compliment. Let's see if I can get through it. Mr Van Otterloo is right in saying that we need to combine CO and nitrogen. At the same time, he asks what it would cost to buy up 1% of the farmland. Yeah, that's the question my kids asked when they were little: Dad, what does a house cost? No, we're not gonna do this. There are too many parameters and too many varieties of things you can do. We're not gonna do that. The cabinet is not going to come up with measures that we may or may not do. The cabinet keeps coming up with measures that we are going to implement, step by step, with the underlying calculations of the impact and costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u238	I am well aware that it is difficult to determine how much 1% will cost, but you know what the average square meter price of agricultural land is, especially those parts of land that are not among the most fertile and close to the nature reserves. You also know what the average square meter price is for land that can be used as a building land for social housing, the free sector and so on. It is about these general calculations, but it is also about focusing resources on the places where it costs the least and on the other hand it can produce the most, both in nature and in housing. That's the point. I am also concerned about plans that can be implemented immediately, but that cannot be hidden in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u239	No, it's not supposed to be hiding. Each time there are immediate executable plans, there will be a calculation of the effect, but more hypothetical reflections we will not do. The team doesn't have time for that either. Those people don't have time for that. It is true that the key figures for this can be obtained here and there. I admit that I have also done calculations for all kinds of sectors at home in the bank. That's just in all kinds of reports. But I don't feel like sending that into the world on behalf of a government that hasn't investigated it itself and may not have intended to. We are responsible for the policy we are pursuing and we will add calculations to it. With all kinds of other, more research theoretic questions, I shouldn't burden the team at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u240	As a chamber, we're part of that government. So if we are going to make a ruling, then that is not theoretical; that is a statement from the government, an order to the cabinet. I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u241	It is clear that when the government says that it is going to do something specific, there is a calculation, so that the Chamber can exercise control over it. Mr Stoffer asks me if I think that biomass really produces CO reduction. The answer is yes. I refer him to the argument I made during the budget debate. I think there's one more...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u242	Yes, there's a afterburner from Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u243	I understand that the Minister is now moving on to Mr Stoffer, but I had specifically asked how far the cabinet had come with his own intention to apply the housing valuation point system in the context of the housing valuation system in such a way that the maximum rents could be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u244	That's absolutely true. Sorry. That's right. Precisely on this point, the rents in social rents in relation to sustainability in the context of the housing valuation system, a letter from the Minister of BZK to this Chamber will be sent before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u245	So next Tuesday, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u246	Yeah, that's for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u247	But after we're gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u248	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u249	It will be sent to you at your holiday address, near Mr Moorlag's tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u250	I'm not leaving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u251	Mr Van Otterloo stays at home for it. Mr Stoffer has reworded the stress test questions in order to keep them more interesting. I congratulate him on that. It is now the Eleven Cities scenario and the serious investment in storage. He asked those two questions. Every year TenneT makes an analysis of that. He'll be here in the fall. It is also constantly expanding. The entire monitoring will be extended with all kinds of flexibility: influencing demand and supply, storage and all kinds of other ways. No, I'm not going to take a stand alone picture of an Eleven Cities scenario. It's TenneT that does this every time. The storage market will start, because at some point there will be friction between supply and demand, and then storage will also get a value. Then storage becomes a business case. Then hydrogen also comes into positive business cases. That's why we think it's gonna happen. But now there is no need for storage at all, because you can turn all kinds of power stations on and off. The analysis of the ODE in the third disc in relation to greenhouse horticulture is part of the SME impact test, also part of the Climate Agreement. It's been promised. This is being developed for the various sectors, including these. The intention is that this could go to the Chamber before April 1st. Mr President, I am therefore through the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u252	Thank you. I'll suspend for five minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u253	We'll continue with the second term. First of all, Mr Kops of the Party for Freedom Group has the floor. The floor is up to him. Every speaker has a minute and a half speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u254	That's not much. Mr President, thank you. Actually, this is a bizarre debate, if that's how you listen to it. I asked first in the first term: what are the people at home who are listening to this, better of this, especially those who are struggling with towering energy costs? The answer is nothing. When you listen to the minister and all the parties in this way, to the chatter about percent CO reduction, about megatons, about bandwidths and about lower and upper limits, it's actually the first time we've heard certain parties talk so enthusiastically about borders, but then the wrong one. And then the targets, to which so many billions are spent, are not even met. This debate is no longer really about what this whole climate policy is really good for. We say loud and clear: it is not good for anything. But if you do believe in that, you have to ask yourself what logic it is that a very small country like the Netherlands will close five small coal power stations, while they are being added to China by hundreds at a time. What logic does it have for all of us in the Netherlands to get rid of gas, while people in countries like Germany and Belgium get money when they take gas? That's not logic. That's hypocritical, with your megatons. But that is not what the debate is about. The climate train is pounding. It's all gonna have to go on. We now also have a terrible Green Deal, which is going to cost no less than EUR 260 billion a year. And the Minister cannot even respond to the question of what financial impact this has on households. The same minister says that energy poverty in this country is not so bad and the same minister has caused the energy costs to rise so hugely. Really last but not least, Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have already asked the Minister to respond to this energy poverty. He didn't. Answers to written questions show that he is not interested in this at all, but we insist: what is the Minister going to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u255	Thank you. Then Mr Harbers of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u256	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the detailed answer, in particular for his commendable speech on the ability of the Netherlands to earn and the associated task force for industry, for there is a really big task for the coming year. Thank you for his commitment to taxonomy. It is true that this is now in the category of transition energy after the trilogue. I also ask the government to make every effort to ensure that this remains at least in that category. Finally. The Minister already made a commitment about the individuals who have come into trouble with the ISDE. I think that at the limit of the year they need clarity, so despite the commitment I want to fill this in more detail in a motion that says: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of the evaluation of the ISDE grant, it has been decided that installations for new construction projects without a gas connection obligation will no longer be eligible for ISDE grant as of 1 January 2020;]] [[noting that this results, inter alia, in the absence of a subsidy for solar boilers and heat pumps which have already been purchased but which have not yet been installed;]] [[Whereas it is important for the energy transition that the costs of the energy transition remain manageable and affordable;]] [[calls on the Government to allow private individuals who purchased heat pumps or solar boilers before the date of entry into force of the scheme to apply for a subsidy by 2020 for the purpose of placing them in new buildings without a gas connection obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-410]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to the Minister. Because of today's news about the larger hole around the Urgenda Goal, I am even more curious about the completion of my motion on the supplementary package. The Minister has already said something about this. The importance has only increased. I am in itself satisfied with the commitment to a legislative programme. Anyway, we've learned that it's also good to record things. Mr Mulder is going to table another motion on which I expect a Chamber of Appeal. Anyway, that's up to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u258	But you're just giving him some advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u259	I'm gonna give him some advice, no strings attached. I have one motion of my own because I am not going to table any motions which I know will be the answer to. But this motion is, I think, useful, especially when the Chamber takes a decision on it. The motion goes as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the latest Future Explore Welvaart and the Environment was published in 2015;]] [[Whereas the Council of State indicates that a greater understanding of what needs to be done in the 2030-2050 period in order to achieve the climate objectives is needed;]] [[Whereas this understanding can also contribute to the implementation of the climate plan by successive Cabinets;]] [[Calls on the Government to invite CPB and PBL to update the Future Exploratory Prosperity and Environment before 1 March 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u260	This is an invitation that we hope to make together. I am not concerned with an assignment, because given the independent position of these organisations, that is not desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u261	Thank you. Then Mrs Agnes Mulder from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u262	Mr President, thank you. Let me begin the motion immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that climate change is high and that a lot of legislation will have to be dealt with by Parliament in the coming years;]] [[having noted that in its consideration of the Climate Plan, the Council of State recommends that a coherent legislative programme be drawn up;]] [[Whereas a coherent legislative programme, bringing together the departments concerned into an integral programme, contributes to the necessary understanding for parliament and stakeholders in society;]] [[calls on the Government to follow the opinion of the Council of State and to present a coherent legislative programme and to forward this programme to the Chamber by mid 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u263	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's commitment to receive an impact analysis on the Green Deal after we get it in February. Thank you also to the Minister for involving the issue of Aedes in the motion tabled by my colleague Mr Ronnes. Thanks also to the Minister for his answer on how you deal with such a quality mark. Before 1 April, we will have all the obstacles that still exist for sunshine on the roof, whether insurance or other matters, also towards the school boards and, of course, in a broader sense for sunshine on the roof. That seems to me to be an important commitment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u264	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My first motion concerns the contribution of the most polluting companies. We tabled that motion last time, in which we wanted to know what it contributed for each company, at least those in the top 20 of the most polluting ones. According to the Minister, this could not be done, because it would not be good for the individual company. Then let's do it collectively. I hope that this motion will then be given a ruling, Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only a small number of companies are responsible for half of all CO emissions from industry;]] [[Whereas the cost of climate policy is still disproportionate for households and SMEs;]] [[whereas the Cabinet refuses to open up the contribution of the largest polluters to the Sustainable Energy Storage (ODE);]] [[considers that this information should be known for a fair distribution of desires and burdens;]] [[calls on the Government to send together an overview of the ODE contribution of the 20 most polluting companies to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u266	A subject that we are returning to is actually far too little done with, and Mr Kops said it, even if it is energy poverty. We have already tabled many concrete motions on this subject, but I shall try again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that energy is a right;]] [[noting that 650,000 households already live in energy poverty;]] [[Whereas this number is likely to double to 1.5 million households within 10 years;]] [[considers that it is unacceptable that in the Netherlands families cannot be sufficiently warmed up for fear of not being able to pay the bill;]] [[calls on the government to examine how to prevent the doubling of the number of households in energy poverty due to the energy transition and to come up with solutions for the households currently living in energy poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u267	I am therefore out of my speaking time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u268	That's right. Mr Sienot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u269	Mr. Chairman. We received countries like Hungary and the Czech Republic in Europe. I think if it works out there, it should work out in the rest of the world. So once again, the incentive to the minister: also in the world just form that leading group and see how we get them to those countries, so that we can really see a nice summit in Glasgow. I'd really like that. I believe that the Minister, together with the other ministers in Europe, can play an important role in this. Then there is a motion concerning the alignment of the Dutch climate with European climate goals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the coalition agreement agreed that the Netherlands is taking the lead in the European Union to achieve the target at 55% and that, on the basis of the international talks in 2019, the final 2030 target may differ from the 49% the cabinet now assumes;]] [[Considering that the European Green Deal agreed that the CO reduction target should be raised to at least 50% and even 55% by 2030;]] [[calls on the government to inform the Chamber of how it adapts Dutch climate policy to the increased European objective once the European Commission has published its impact assessment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u271	Thank you. Mr Moorlag (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers, including the answers to the questions not asked. Dutch society now knows that the Minister does not have a Christmas tree, but I did not think that was the most important part of the debate. What worries me are the opinions of the Rli and the PBL. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the PBL states in the Climate and Energy Exploratory that much needs to be done to achieve 49% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and that effective implementation of policies is difficult in practice;]] [[whereas the Rli states that the government must steer the transition towards a sustainable economy more strongly;]] [[Whereas the risks of non-achievement of climate targets should be minimised;]] [[calls on the Government to design a clear process architecture, with concrete intermediate objectives, to implement the Climate Agreement with the commitment of the participating parties, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-416]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u273	I note that the Minister has said he is here. He may change "to be set up" by making the description "invisible to the Chamber." Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the period up to 2030, the government should not only focus on reducing CO as cheaply as possible, but should also lay the foundations for substantial system changes;]] [[Whereas for this purpose, inter alia, a better connection to the European HSL network should be developed, as an alternative to air transport, as well as a hydrogen-based industry and a much less burdensome food production system;]] [[calls on the government to develop a clear vision and concrete scenarios and plans for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-417]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u275	Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions and for the commitments. I would like to discuss governance with him and colleagues, and in particular with Mr Moorlag. As far as my group is concerned, these are the following questions. Where's the direction? Who's contactable? Who's gonna wake up? To be honest, I still don't have the answers to that. Another point that has been raised is the energy bill. I welcome the commitment that the Minister will look into this in relation to the ODE. We also talked about the campaign to provide people with an action perspective. I think there's a great need for that. People want to, but they don't know how. What could be their first step in the energy transition? Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the debate, I have one motion, which I would like to table now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that electrification of our society calls for smart grids, storage and grid reinforcement;]] [[noting that an important responsibility for finding local solutions has been laid down in the RES;]] [[whereas network operators face major investment and complex issues and this justifies an overarching vision;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a national plan for infrastructure of national interest, to ensure the role of network operators in the RES, to assess the impact of the RES on infrastructure costs in order to minimise the impact on citizens' energy bills,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Harbers, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-418]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u278	Then Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u279	Mr. Chairman. "Rule size" and "reliability" were key words in this debate. The regularity I recognize is that emissions are regularly rising, targets are regularly not being met, additional measures are regularly taken and the sacred houses are regularly out of the question, and therefore the reliability of the government is regularly at stake. The question came along as to whether future generations would start laughing or crying at these plans. I can assure the Minister that they are going to cry with this policy, and also with the growth letter, which does not at least acknowledge that our prosperity costs 2.9 globes, World Overshoot Day for the Netherlands on 4 May and therefore there is a huge ecological shortage. That letter of growth doesn't acknowledge that. In the end, this policy will leave the public behind, and so will future generations. Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to raise the Dutch CO reduction target for 2030 to 70% compared to 1990,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to raise the Dutch CO reduction target for 2030 to at least 55% compared to 1990,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-419]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-420]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u280	Thank you for that. Let me ask you another question. What is the situation with regard to the two motions we have tabled on Urgenda? One is on 19 September, with the request to make an extreme effort. The other is from 27 November, with the request to act in such a way as to achieve the Urgenda target, with minimal risk. In fact, it is very important that we now hear what the effect of these motions is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u281	Thank you. Then Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you also to the Minister for his reactions, which at least gave me reason to table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that agricultural land can be bought up for less than €10 per square metre and that land can be sold for €100 to €200 per square metre;]] [[Whereas the objective of the investment fund is to strengthen the economic structure by means of investments with both an economic and a social return;]] [[Whereas the availability of (building) land in general and land speculation in particular constitute a major obstacle to the future development of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, on the one hand, the housing market and infrastructure and the reduction of nitrogen deposition on the other hand, there are major challenges;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how it is possible to purchase agricultural land from the Investment Fund, then to use it for the expansion of nature areas on the one hand and the development of housing and infrastructure on the other, so that major steps can be taken simultaneously on all these issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-421]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u283	Actually, yeah. What exactly is the meaning of this? If you were going to do this, land prices would only increase and the problem will only increase. I do not see how this can lead to a new income model. Maybe you should explain something to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u284	At a time when we are probably talking about 1% to 1.5% of farms in the context of the restructuring of farms, buying-in programmes to buy out farmers will not lead to speculation unless it is offered as a farm again on the free market. We could use the money released to clean up the farms in the context of the nitrogen deposition for this purpose. I have the Minister's remark that at the moment it is not a task of the government, taken up by making it a task of the government. Because we have a task to do in reducing nitrogen deposition. We have a task to do in order to ensure that sufficient housing is created. We combined those two things with each other. Mr. Chairman. Because there'll be another letter before Christmas, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the main agreement prior to this reconnaissance, the Cabinet indicated in its own explanatory memorandum that it would like to use the housing valuation system and the use of the compensation instrument;]] [[noting that poorly insulated housing should be eligible for rent compensation;]] [[noting that the housing valuation system indicates the maximum amount of rent to be calculated for social housing on the basis of a point count;]] [[Whereas a substantial reduction in the number of points by applying a reduction for poorly isolated housing can lead to a reduction in the rent and a compensation of the gas tax;]] [[Whereas such compensation of the gas tax is appropriate in such a way that the benefit of the lower rent is not offset by an equal reduction in the rent surcharge;]] [[calls on the Government to implement a rent reduction for poorly isolated housing based on the housing valuation system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-422]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u285	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u286	Mr. Chairman. There are three points that call for a response. I really believe that I have answered Mr Kops' question as to how we deal with the energy bill. Mr Harbers looks at me and makes a comment about taxonomy. Taxonomy determines which investments in which technology can be regarded as sustainable. Taxonomy is applied to all financial products. The Netherlands is committed to ambitious but technologically neutral taxonomy, which is based on the latest scientific insights. Moreover, the energy mix is simply for the Member States and the Netherlands also has its own course of action. The whole Chamber knows my views on this. Mr Sienot owes me an answer. He asked whether the examination of the level of the levy would be equivalent to consumption. We're not sure we're gonna make it. That's not clear yet. It is not yet known exactly when the price level study is ready. As soon as I know, I'll let you know. So I cannot guarantee that it will come at the same time. Then I have motions. The motion in part No. 410 is about Mr Harbers' discovery of the lack of a transition mechanism. I'll leave that motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u287	It may of course be that the Minister will come back to it, but we would also have asked in the second term for the response to the two motions adopted, which the Minister specifically mentioned. What progress has been made on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u288	I'm gonna try to put this behind the second term. I can see some asking looks. I am looking at my officials for confirmation or denial that I can give Mr Van Raan sufficient answers to his questions. No, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u289	You won't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u290	Apologies. I always write along, so it's my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u291	Perhaps it is good to mention that there were two motions, on 18 or 19 September and on 27 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u292	Maybe you should roughly mention what the operative part was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u293	Yes. It's about Urgenda. One time it's about making the most of the effort, doing everything to reach the Urgenda goals. That was the 18 or 19 September motion. The 27th of November is also about Urgenda. I do not have the exact operative part of it in mind, but it was a matter of taking a minimum risk or at least drawing up the judgment in such a way as to ensure that the most likely outcome is achieved. In other words, the risk of non-achievement is as small as possible. It is 18 or 19 September and 27 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u294	I can answer that in this way, because we are still working on the implementation of these motions. I have just mentioned all kinds of deadlines for this and indicated a rhythm for it. I said it's not easy. I shall now proceed to Mr Van der Lee's motion on item No. 411. I would like to give this motion a Chamber of Justice, but still under a different wording. Mr Van der Lee says: 'calls on the government to invite CBP and PBL.' This means that I actively invite; that is an active invitation. If he makes it "requests the government to transfer the request of the Lower House to CPB and PBL to update the Future Reconnaissance Wealth and Environment before 1 March 2021," then I give the motion judgment Chamber. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u295	That is what we want to hear from the author, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u296	Yes. If I have to change her myself... It'd be nice if the Griffin could take over right away. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u297	I've got her right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u298	This has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u299	The Van der Lee motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the latest Future Explore Welvaart and the Environment was published in 2015;]] [[Whereas the Council of State indicates that a greater understanding of what needs to be done in the 2030-2050 period in order to achieve the climate objectives is needed;]] [[Whereas this understanding can also contribute to the implementation of the climate plan by successive Cabinets;]] [[Calls on the Government to transfer to CPB and PBL to update the Future Exploratory Prosperity and Environment before 1 March 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 411 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u300	The motion in part No. 412 is about a coherent legislative programme. This is the ratification of a commitment, so I will certainly leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. I would have thought that I could serve Mrs Beckerman with the motion in part No. 413, but it turns out the law doesn't allow that. No, seriously! The Tax Administration and the CBS collect data from companies for a purpose. It is not legally permitted to use or disclose that data for any purpose other than that specified. So I'm not supposed to do this. I understand Mrs Beckerman's attempt. I understand what she wants to know. I don't think it's a weird question either, but I can't do it on the basis of these data. I must therefore discourage the motion, somewhat to my regret, because I think it is simply an understandable question. The motion in part No. 414 I advise, also just content. Basically, we look at the total purchasing power every time and not just at energy. We do this every year in the context of the August decision-making process. We do this integrally and not just in the field of energy. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u301	That's actually the story we get every time, me and Mr Kops. That's kind of crazy. Shell, for example, did not pay a profit tax last year, but received compensation for the high energy bill. What do you mean, no income policy through the energy bill? I say this precisely because the Minister himself is in favour. It reduces support when you are in energy poverty for the climate. I just don't understand what the resistance to this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u302	I fully understand what Mrs Beckerman is saying, namely that we must pay attention to purchasing power because otherwise we will create opponents. I totally agree; we do that every year. But in the main, the cabinet does this in its entirety, and not only in the field of energy. I say that on behalf of the entire cabinet. It's about integral purchasing power with everything. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u303	But I think that's a little too easy. The Minister has some kind of incentive in the energy bill: you raise the gas price and you think there will be an incentive to do something. For a lot of people that doesn't work, because they can't do anything yet or they can't do anything because they're tenants or because they have a low income. So you're stimulating with an energy bill and then people are in energy poverty. Then you look away. That's a really crazy guy, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u304	No. The Climate Agreement, with this slide, has a positive impact on the energy bill compared to the policy there was. It has been taken into account that none of these people are moving. So the behavioral effects haven't been reviewed. It's a static pass-through. If people then choose a different and cheaper solution, they will make more progress. But this is calculated in the situation that people do nothing and just sit where they are sitting, and so the energy consumption doesn't fall either. Mr Sienot put forward in the motion for a resolution item No. 415 a question I understand, but I think he's going a little hasty there. He asked the government to inform the Chamber about how the Dutch climate policy will be adapted to the increased European goal when the impact assessment is in place. I think he means when there's a deal. There is no Green Deal yet; there is a proposal for a Green Deal. Then we'll go to an impact assessment. That's where a proposal for a Green Deal is being assessed. Then we go to decision-making and at some point the Council comes to a Green Deal in one form or another, whether or not in a trilogue. At that time it is up to the Dutch Government to indicate what we are going to do about it. The sentences Mr Sienot spoke about are directing. We cannot yet indicate what we are going to do if there is only an impact assessment of a proposal on the main lines. I can't do that yet. If he amends the motion as follows: 'when a Green Deal has been decided by the European Council', I will give her judgement Chamber. But that could take a while. I understand his intent and I see his impatience. I appreciate the sentences he talked about in his considerations, but I cannot leave her in this form to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u305	Mr Sienot must do some exegesis on his own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u306	I'll change the motion. I hear what the Minister says. You can't ask for anything that can't be done. I can ask, but I'm not gonna get it. Yeah, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u307	With these modifications, the motion will be judged by Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u308	Here's to it. I'll adjust her and re-transmit her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u309	You're gonna have to talk to the Registry about a proper formulation later, because we can't do that out of the loose wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u310	"When the European Council has decided on a Green Deal."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u311	An amended motion must be produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u312	Clear, he's coming. I heard the minister right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u313	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u314	Thank you, thank you. When Mr Moorlag tabled his motion in part No. 416 reading, I thought: well, I'm not sure. But then he gave space in his explanatory statement not to design it necessarily, but to describe it wherever it already existed. I find that very useful, because I admit that it is complicated. It has become clear this evening that I have not yet had enough of that, so I think this is a very helpful request. I'm gonna do this. I'll leave this judgment room. The second call, in part No. 417, is one of three motions which go too far for this debate. Not so much content, but this is not a KEV subject. This is located on the premises of IenW. I'm not so much about food production; I can't do very much with this. I would ask Mr Moorlag to present it to the various directors or to have his colleagues from the Labour Party present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u315	So you are actually asking him for the motion in part No. 417 to hold?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u316	I'm actually asking him to file her elsewhere, not here. I can't give you any advice on that. I don't think it's my turf either. I am also uncomfortable about interfering with colleagues' subjects now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u317	So the motion has been dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u318	If it's not filed elsewhere, the motion will be dissuaded. But that might be a shame, because there are very understandable things in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u319	This exposes exactly what's wrong with it. The motion is addressed to the government. Not as a minister, but as a government. We're dealing here with the coordinating regiment. But I take note that the motion is being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u320	Then the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u321	With love, I'm a coordinating ruler, but here I'm gonna be a carrier pigeon. The European HSL network is very far beyond the subject of this sitting and very far beyond my portfolio. I understand that. The motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 418 concerns a national plan for infrastructure of national interest and the role of network operators. Those are all very sensible questions. I'll leave this request to the government's Court of Justice. I have spoken with Mr Van Raan earlier about the 70%. I didn't recommend that at the time, and I'm doing that again with his motion in part No. 419. What is being asked in the Van Raan motion for a resolution on item No. 420 could occur, but is now immeasurable. That's why I have to discourage the motion in this form. With his motion in part No. 421 Mr Van Otterloo is way out of line. This is agricultural policy with regard to nitrogen. For one thing, we have a coordinating ruler, who I am not, and for the other we have a ruler, who neither am I. I do the investment fund together with another executive, but I can already say that I am not going to do that at all, because that is what experts are going to assess. No, I would nevertheless like to suggest to Mr Van Otterloo that this motion be submitted to the govern ment who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u322	And so she's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u323	Yeah, if she's not withdrawn, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u324	The motion will not be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u325	The same applies to the Van Otterloo motion on item No. 422. It's about rental policy and home security systems... I'm sorry, but I can't possibly add a colleague's wallet at 9:30 in the evening. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u326	They're all at home, so this is your chance. I call Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u327	We are talking about a coordinating govern ment. It is a letter from the cabinet written on behalf of the coordinating director. Every time it comes up, it is said: it belongs to this minister. We're waiting for a letter. It's due for Christmas. So that means we need this motion. If the letter comes before Thursday, the motion may still be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u328	Yeah, but I'll have to discourage the motion. Coordinating ruler? With love, but I'm not a mailman. I can't go into one of my colleagues' policy areas right now. Mr Van Otterloo must understand that too; that is not possible. That's the routine. It's not on the agenda either; excuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u329	The point is made. We're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u330	I dissuade the motion, although there may be a lot to say, but I cannot judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u331	Does the Minister have a final word?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u332	A final word? That's a new character.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u333	Something moving, something interpersonal. As the tension at the Binnenhof increases a little, outside, I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u334	"Those without trees, too, I wish peace and thought."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u335	"Rest and ambition" was the common thread today. We'll keep them in there, too. Maybe something for another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-46.u336	So much for this debate. I thank the Minister for his presence and I thank the participants. On Thursday we shall be voting on the motions at the beginning of the afternoon sitting.
