ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office of the Chamber of General European Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u2	We have arrived at Mr Knapen's input. Mr. Knapen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Northwest Europe is an enviable place. You might not say it when you see the public whining about all those things that aren't in order daily, but yet our somewhat slow-growing countries offer the best quality of life in history, many years ahead of countries like Russia, India and even China. One could complain that only a small elite benefit from it, but nineteen of the twenty countries with the most equality in the world are European countries, according to the OECD gini formula. Seven of the ten most successful countries according to the United Nations Human Development Index are Northwest European. And another thing: we all grew up with the idea of America as the land of unlimited possibilities. But one after the other, recently by the authoritative Pew Charitable Trusts, shows that social mobility in North-West Europe is now much greater than in the United States. Whoever was born for a dime in America has a better chance of staying there than here. Don't get me wrong: there are enough things here to seriously worry us about. But we're talking about our position in the world today. Certainly, we are seriously failing here, for example, in the field of innovation. Key industries are gradually becoming American or Chinese. We don't have Apple, we don't have Google, we don't have Amazon, we don't have Facebook, we don't have Alibaba, we don't have Tencents, but we also have to note that these new giants don't spread wealth, pay hardly any tax, and promote wealth accumulation only for a small group. Economic profits and social damage sometimes seem to go hand in hand here. Mr. Chairman. I am deliberately talking about North-West Europe, extending from Scandinavia to France, from Germany to Ireland, and not about the Netherlands in itself. For the latter might sound a bit complacent, but more importantly: the core of this enviable statistics is not the merit of one country but of the combined socio-economic, cultural and social forces in this corner of Europe. Are we aware of this? The answer to this question is perhaps best given by the threats that are coming to us and the way in which we deal with them. These threats have become more and more external threats in recent years. It is often summarized under the slogan "the geopolitics is back." We are seeing a phenomenal socio-economic success with China, but also perhaps a new superpower. The country is becoming more assertive, it is lying to our old idea that the growth of a middle class leads to democracy. And the country is pounding. It owns key industries and is starting to take the lead in some areas, as the example of 5G and Huawei now shows to everyone. It can now effectively break up countries, even here in Europe. It is interesting to note that the subject now seems to have landed in the political capitals of a number of European countries for many years. But what we have to do with it is still a big question mark. A common line between a number of leading EU countries would help greatly, but I do not believe that such a common approach will lead the way in the Netherlands, as I ask the Minister. However, we must realise that we can always use the slogan'sovereignty' on the streets, but that there is little left of sovereignty in real practice if we are constantly playing against each other in this part of Europe. Sovereignty without influence is bogus sovereignty. Play countries against each other, divide and rule games: they are things Russia controls at college level. Marble in Crimea, the Iskander missiles at Kaliningrad, the poisoning of spies, the provocations with air force and navy: they are as many threats as attempts to sow division. Russia's sad attitude to the MH17 is particularly touching us here. It remains astonishing that a country with a gross national product cannot increase the level of uncertainty in the rest of Europe beyond that of Spain. So far, the EU has managed to draw one line, but the thread is thin when you consider Putin dancing to a political wedding in Vienna and flirting with Orbán's populist-authoritarian regime a little further down the Danube. The new gas pipeline from Russia to Western Europe illustrates our distress. Do we even want that dependency? Is it not better to direct the European Commission here than was recently agreed? How do we deal with this in the future, I ask the Minister. We used to have something like "the West," with a capital, to counterweight, to ensure our security and our way of life. But does this trusted West still exist? A while back, the U.S. Secretary of State held some sort of philosophical reflection on America and the world. He did so in Brussels and the word "west" or "western" was not mentioned once. His hearing had to be convinced that we will have a new free world order as long as each country acts according to the limited self-interest. If every country imitates "America First," everyone's gonna be okay. "We want our friends to help us and to exercise their own sovereignty at the same time," said the US Secretary with a logic that borders on inimitableness. Institutions such as the EU, the World Bank, the IMF or the World Trade Organisation had to be adapted or abolished. And he was proud to announce the agreements that had already left his country: the Iran deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the Paris climate agreement and the INF medium-range weapons treaty. At the moment, the World Trade Organisation is being smoked out by America, precisely the organisation that the poor Brexit Britten now clings to as a lifeboat. How does our country relate to these developments? After Brexit, this cabinet developed feverish activity to repair the damage to the European negotiating tables as much as possible. Our Finance Minister said that under our leadership a Hanseatic coalition had developed with the aim of limiting French plans for a strong European Monetary Fund, for a strong euro area budget and for a European unemployment fund. We were allowed to be enthusiastic about Macron's domestic reform plans, but above all it had to be slowed down on the European stage. And since you never knew for sure with our German friends, such a Hanseatic coalition could also help the Germans to kick the brakes firmly against French initiatives. This braking was initially at least a very good success. The dedication of our finance minister deserves a compliment. Having said that, however, we should not close our eyes to a few broader questions. Is this Hanseatic coalition going to help us against advancing China? Will it help us to combat instability on the European southern borders, instability on the eastern flanks and in the Balkans? Is this coalition going to ensure adequate tax payments by the Internet giants? Do we really need this Hanseatic coalition in the real essential areas? Let us not, therefore, make the significance of this Hanseatic coalition too great, because that only works in the hands of abstinence and alienation in our country. Only Germany and France could jointly develop a credible defence against such threats from outside. We can perhaps claim in our country that we have effectively stepped on a brake, as long as it does not lead to frustrating a Franco-German mission for the greater interest of making this part of Europe more resilient. That's a higher goal and it can't be free. There will also occasionally be a concession to France. And then it's about taking the public into a new international reality, in which we live and from which we too must draw conclusions. Madam President, let me give you another typical example of resilience. A while ago Chancellor Merkel talked in the European Parliament about moving towards a European army. That in itself is nothing special.... we already have several bilateral intersections in Western Europe, including us with Germany. Moreover, the United States has been retreating for a long time. "Leading from behind" said President Obama euphemistically and courteously when his country failed in Libya. The incumbent president often grumbling inside that he really doesn't want anything to do with that whole NATO thing. Our important straw in his government, Secretary of Defense Mattis, left the pentagonal building on the Potomac with a dramatic resignation last winter. I would just like to say that it is not that strange that we in Europe learn more about our own business. And in Defence's case, it's primarily about Franco-German initiatives, because the Germans have the financial resources to make a difference and the French have the political and mental disposition. But Chancellor Merkel's words were not yet stunned or our country came up with a square rejection. For us it is NATO and nothing else, according to the reaction. Now I realise very well that a real European army is inaccessible far away and perhaps also undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u4	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u5	Can I finish this sentence? Then it fits exactly with the question which I suspect Mr Van Apeldoorn is going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u6	You can read Mr Van Apeldoorn's thoughts. That indicates your fantastic relationship. Go ahead, Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u7	Criticism of such a suggestion by a European army is therefore entirely fair. But a German Chancellor, thinking aloud, deserves more goodwill and a little more constructive thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u8	I am very much in favour of open-minded benevolence, but I would like to go back to an earlier part of Mr Knapen's speech. Then perhaps I will come back to the issue of the European army. I hear him well when it comes to China's rise, undoubtedly a superpower of the future, and what is happening in the US. Mr Knapen refers to the fact that the Americans are no longer talking about the West, but only about 'own country first'. "The West" is a problematic concept, but I understand what he means. The answer cannot, of course, be that we all say 'Netherlands first', 'Germany first' et cetera. I do not think that is the answer to these problems either. But is Mr Knapen actually saying that the answer must lie in the common sense, that it must be 'Europe first'? Or should we say: no, we stand for certain principles, such as'multilateralism first'? We are putting the international legal order first and from there we are going to try to work together on that safer world instead of talking right now about a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u9	I like the premise of colleague Van Apeldoorn. He asks: should we not look primarily at what is valuable to us and what has also proved valuable from experience, such as multilateralism, international cooperation and the rule of law? But that must not make us naive in the meantime, that must not blind us to the things that are happening in the world, where you are not only there with your ideals and your benevolence, but also sometimes with a certain strength for your values and your interests. I think we differ on that. And "power" in international relations in some cases also means "defension."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u10	I am curious how Mr Knapen intends to relate defence and military power to defending, for example, the international legal order. Perhaps that will become clear later in Mr Knapen's speech. How does he see this concretely? There are now plans to spend 13 billion of the European budget on defence under the new MFF. Is that necessary in Mr Knapen's view to defend that multilateralism? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u11	I regard defence activities not only as activities to defend multilateralism but also as a means of defending society as we know it here and as we appreciate it here, against threats from outside. I mentioned Libya's example. In addition, you could see that leaning on the United States was extremely risky, because the United States, in my view, quite rightly said "that is really a problem in your front yard, and not in ours." Especially when you see what is happening in Africa at the moment, it may be important to have some leverage when there are threats that may be risky for us. And to say that no matter what happens, we defend our interests by raising the flag for the principles of "international rule of law" and "multilateralism" without being able to act in practice... Unlike Mr Van Apeldoorn, I do not believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u12	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u13	Is not Libya's lesson that such an intervention policy can turn against us? The lawlessness that prevails there today is a direct consequence of that intervention, isn't it? When you talk about the European Intervention Initiative, our fear is that it will become more of the same. If you say 'we must defend our geopolitical interests, our geopolitical backyard; for that we also need military resources', what lessons does Mr Knapen take from previous interventions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u14	From all kinds of interventions you can learn all kinds of different lessons. In my view, the causal link between the intervention in Libya and what is now being found in Libya is a little too simple. Because even without intervention, all the omens in Libya were in the direction of chaos and also in the direction of a massive massacre. In Benghazi, 500,000 people were threatened with death. In such a case too, it has more to do with the rule of law than with the national interest, one can imagine that civilized societies feel called to take action. Then let me add some self-interest to that. If things get completely out of hand there, you can't expect anything else but that these people are looking for a safe place elsewhere. And when that happens in large numbers, it is also destabilising for our societies. I would like to give another example, in which an intervention has given rise to a certain degree of'stability'. I place that in quotes, because it's always helped with interventions, it's always a "lender of last resort." This example concerns everything a little north of Bamako, where the French in particular initially took the chestnuts out of the fire. That was also our interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mr Van Apeldoorn said that the proposals for the new MFF meant that the defence budget would increase considerably. This amounts to more than 12 billion. At the same time, we see a 2 billion reduction in the budget for civil conflict prevention. A total of less than a billion is earmarked for this in the MFF. The question is a little bit: how does Mr Knapen look at that? I do not yet see an underlying view of what should happen to that huge budget. I do not see any kind of review framework either, and I miss clear plans on how to ensure that national budgets and equipment are better aligned. Should it not be much more a part of a much more comprehensive defence policy than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u16	That's actually what our country always says. The Minister will undoubtedly put it more effectively and better than I am now improvising. If there is criticism, for example, of the fact that we are not achieving the 2% standard for defence, then we are not always wrong to say: that is true; in fact, we should achieve that; that is what my group also thinks, but do not forget all our other financial efforts to promote international stability. We are talking about issues ranging from the promotion of the rule of law, from the rule of law to classical development cooperation, as a whole package of stability-enhancing measures. But that includes defense. If you look at the situation in the world at the moment, there is more reason to pay extra attention to defence than there was at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u17	Mr Knapen is not answering my question. I asked whether this should not at least be part of a more comprehensive strategy when it comes to the question of what to do with defence resources and how it relates to, for example, the civil conflict prevention that we also need. Only making money available without first trying to ensure that Member States complement each other better in the field of defence and without it being clear what the EU's vision is, isn't that a bit of a wrong order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u18	I do not think you can expect the EU as a whole, of 27 Member States, to have a common view of the importance of those 27 Member States. That's why in defense you usually see a coalition of "the able and the willing" of those who are able and willing to act when it comes to actual action. But it's exactly as Mrs. Strik says it is. You're gonna have to see what you can develop together. And that's what's gonna happen. The Netherlands cooperates with Germany. The Netherlands cooperates with Belgium. We're pooling equipment. We're working with Britain. In my opinion, when it comes to actual implementation, it is better to allow it to grow from below rather than from above. So that's also a bit of a growth process you're going through. I am sure that will not end up with a European army of 27 Member States. But that does lead to more power, including in the defence field, of a number of countries that want to defend their own interests and values.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u19	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u20	We share this answer on bottom-up and more cooperation. But that does not, in our view, relate to the sudden release of an enormous amount of money from the MFF for deploying at EU level on a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u21	Personally, I think it is a bit premature to talk about MFF amounts now that negotiations have not begun. So I do not want to speculate on that amount of 13 billion. Mrs Strik also knows that 13 billion in the total MFF budget would actually be something below the rounds. To blow this up right now to a huge trend break seems a bit exaggerated to me. I can't speculate on it, because I don't know the MFF as it's gonna look yet. I only know those six or seven variants of what you should do. We were talking about a little more constructive thinking along instead of just rejecting it. This also affects the development of new weapons systems. France, for example, is working on a new fighter plane. And Germany and France are both thinking out loud about their own kind of European Security Council, with or without the British. That is what we hear mostly silence about here. Then comes the question: do we understand the signs of time? If so, do we take the public into this new international reality and do we actually prepare ourselves and our citizens for the consequences, or do we put a bit of detachment here without being noticed in mental terms? Something similar is happening in our border defence. The Dutch Government rightly advocates that the Mediterranean be closed to illegal flows of migrants time and time again. Of course, we can all agree with that in general, but because that Mediterranean is also our border in our Schengen area, it will have to be shared responsibility for this. The European Commission therefore proposed to attract 10,000 people for Frontex and to monitor these borders. But the plan was not yet worldly or there were objections. Such a Frontex service would undermine sovereignty and was actually far too much of the good et cetera, et cetera. Now there is quite a lot to criticize for this Frontex plan, but then it will help to bring something constructive to fruition. What do we want? What possible alternatives can we put on the table? In his letter to the citizens of Europe, on 4 March, President Macron proposed a kind of mini-Schengen, a new Schengen for those who wish to participate in common asylum procedures and procedures, with joint border control and mutual solidarity in the accommodation of asylum seekers, i.e. the distribution of asylum seekers. Interesting thought, you might say, especially since it is urgent to take steps with a smaller group of countries instead of continuing the paralysis of 27 in this area. Again, no serious reaction. I am therefore curious to see what our Minister will say about this. In the end, if we are committed to our values and interests in this part of Europe and if we are committed to rules of law and multilateral cooperation above the law of the strongest, then we will have to join forces. This bundling can only be meaningful and weighty if France and Germany are primarily prepared to do so. The French want to, but are not able; the Germans can, but do not want to. There should be movement in that. Can we contribute to this, I ask the Minister? It means that countries have to give and take. More importantly, the compromises between the cooperating countries must serve a higher purpose, namely that of resilience. Can and do we really want to realise this? Do we dare to include the electorate in such a view, so that compromises in Brussels do not have to come into the dark immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u22	I should like to put the question to Mr Knapen. Does he dare? The question is perhaps rhetorical, but it is an important question. I would also like to link this with the earlier interesting part of your speech on Schengen. Could we not actually add that when Schengen was set up, it was actually foreseeable that the external doors would have to be guarded by the opening of the internal doors, but that the Dutch Government was against it at that time because of the sovereignty argument? I will say something about this myself later. The question to Mr Knapen would be: should we not have learned something from recent history in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u23	I think the answer is yes, although I do not see how Schengen as it is now, with all the Members who now belong to it, could achieve this unity in order to achieve this. Anyway, I'd like to direct that question to the Minister. I did mention Macron's example to see if you could take steps with a smaller group. Mr. Chairman. I said: do we really dare to take the electorate into this reality and in the need for resilience or are we satisfied with yet another warning to cheating Italian budgetary manipulators and yet again a bit grumbling at a too lax Commissioner Moscovici? Are we gonna go back to Macron when he threatens to be a little too close to the yellow hoops, or are we gonna get cranky about the European Central Bank of Draghi, which is actually keeping interest for us too low? It's all possible. In each particular case, criticism is not nonsense either, sometimes even much-needed, there is no misunderstanding about that. At the same time, we must realise that at some point there may be a vote here that we would rather not have anything to do with it if we do not get beyond this permanent rubbing in all kinds of ink stains. If you insist long enough on suffering and torment and not enough on the need to offer credible resilience to all kinds of threats in this privileged part of Europe, then you will ultimately be co-responsible for growing vulnerability. Instead of grumpy, a little courage and optimism has been asked here. The Brexit referendum has shown that the EU's proponents are particularly keen on the economy and the Brexitists, on the other hand, mainly on culture and identity. This is what you see in our country: advocates talk mainly about economic benefits, trade and gross national product, and opponents especially about identity and own culture. I remember that our Prime Minister, too, never went beyond gross national product and free trade when he defended the European Union. But this manifests itself more and more as a tragic mistake. After all, today's world relations are about nothing more and nothing less than defending our values and interests, our social and political culture, our way of life. That's identity, that's social culture, much more than economy and GDP. And we can't do that on our own in the Netherlands of his life. That is at the heart of cooperation with the countries around us in Europe. And in this way, we must take our citizens with us. A reduction of the EU to an economic project will, by definition, break down on emotions of dislike, on emotions of national nostalgia, on deep desires for a clear kind of national familiarity. Such authentic emotions always gain from mathematics at a time of uncertainty. The'remainers' in the United Kingdom have never really understood this to this day. No, if we are committed to our social arrangements, to our middle-class societies, to our democratic, social and constitutional achievements, then we will have to work together with our neighbouring countries and we will therefore have to make compromises. This can only be done if we include our citizens in this. Too often we outbid each other in confirming that it is all wrong in Europe. Those who do not see the broader, global picture, in which Europe must manifest itself in order not to become a toy of external forces. That's what it's all about in the core. That's what it's all about in the core. I'm rounding up. If we take the last elections in our country as a measure, then perhaps a quarter of the voters will be finished with Europe. So three quarters isn't. These three quarters are entitled to constructive commitment, including the right to courage and initiative. And who knows, that other quarter might eventually appreciate that, too. For even those who fear the demise of the eveningland in Spengler's spirit must realize that the Netherlands on its own is not going to save this eveningland. I look forward to the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr Knapen, but I can see that Mr Van Apeldoorn still wants to question you. There will be an interruption by Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u25	I'd love to. It's a nice closure, but I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u26	Is this an interruption when my story's over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u27	Interrupt! Interrupt! Interrupt! What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u28	You said interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u29	Oh, well. I don't understand. I told you to interrupt, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u30	That is correct, but Mr Knapen has already finished his story, so I'm not really interrupting him anymore. An afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u31	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u32	Oh, look. You're right. That was a difficult time to speak, but Mr Van Apeldoorn would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u33	I'd love to. I was just thinking about the social achievements. Mr Knapen said that if we want to preserve our social achievements and also our values, then we should look for unity in Europe and not be afraid of the compromise. But if we want to preserve these social achievements, should we not also draw the lessons of Brexit, in that sense, as I pointed out earlier, that in some respects the so-called freedoms of the internal market may have been made too absolute and that the internal market has been declared too sacred, in that we say: everything must depart from economic freedoms, even if there are real concerns about labour migration or, at municipal level, when it comes to the procurement directive? Is that not also a lesson to be learned if we want to preserve our social achievements? I also refer to the WRR report, which I believe has said some very sensible things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u34	It seems obvious to me that, if you want to preserve the achievements we have here, you constantly look at the way we have organized it. Some things are well organized, others are poorly organized, others we will disagree on. It may well be that we are in agreement in the area of procurement, in the sense that this is currently not well organised within the European regulatory framework. What matters to me is that in the midst of all those things that are not well arranged, you are poorly arranged, or they disturb us, as very recently the idea of giving a half-year of WW to people who go to countries where it doesn't really match economically, despite all those things that are not good, the larger picture of values and interests that are really something to cherish in this part of the world, compared to the rest of the world. You can find out anything about what's not going well and what's going the wrong way. Mr Van Apeldoorn spoke in his speech about the IMF, which talked about too large, too powerful industries, which according to the same report are none in Europe, but mainly in America and a little in China. In this sense, one could embrace Europe as a region where the IMF is a better example. You can name all kinds of things that we need to monitor and improve, but the bigger picture, if you compare it with most countries in the world when it comes to socio-economic relations, the way our society is organized in the fields of education, health care, state of law, the level of corruption, is something that is quite unique and we should not be careless about. That was the undercurrent of my reasoning. Moreover, I fully agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that the procurement rules are not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u35	Mr Van Apeldoorn would like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u36	I do not detract from the greater story, the unity, the values and the achievements that we must stand for. This includes social achievements. I am pleased to note that we are in agreement on the European Procurement Directive, which is where the internal market may go too far, and that is where it is absolute. There could perhaps be limits to that. In any case, this is a kind of micromanagement which is not in line with the achievements we all stand for. I wonder if Mr Knapen can find enough of that criticism in the view of this government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u37	I have asked this government a number of questions, so I await that answer. In order to avoid misunderstandings, Mr Van Apeldoorn's suggestion on the internal market is that you might have to do a little less here and there, but I firmly believe that you have to do much, much more. The point is that the internal market in goods, as this single market has begun, is a market that is getting smaller and smaller because of technological developments and what is more, it contains a much larger part of the national economy. It is precisely in the area of these services that we have enormous delays, which makes it difficult to say, even if I am afraid to say, that we do not have Facebooks and Alibabas here, because the market here is so fragmented when it comes to data law, copyright, and regulators dealing with cyber connections. There we are facing huge deficits where we urgently need more internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u38	Thank you, Mr Knapen. I give the floor to Mrs Strik, because Mr Postema has been kind enough to exchange his place with Mrs Strik, so that Mrs Strik can be present in a moment at a further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Mr Postema. The forthcoming policy cycle of the European Union is one of many and great challenges. The challenge of creating greater cohesion between Member States, of effectively addressing cross-border problems, and the challenge of guaranteeing European constitutional values. The underlying challenge, according to our group, is that the European Union is there for its citizens. All these challenges require political leadership and political courage, especially at a time when, on the world stage, the right of the strongest seems to apply and the willingness to cooperate multilaterally decreases further. Fortunately, the need for political leadership towards Europe seems to have finally got through to our Prime Minister, witnessing his speeches in Berlin and Strasbourg. Where he referred earlier to the European Parliament as a "party committee" and recently described the forthcoming elections in Buitenhof as "not so relevant," something he came back to later, Rutte seems to see the importance of a strong and effective Europe now, as witnessed by the changed tone in the State of the European Union this year. "My personal ideas about the importance of Europe have evolved over the years," says Rutte in Strasbourg. Even the market was as important as security, stability and the rule of law. "Just as important," said the Prime Minister on behalf of this cabinet. But what if the interests of the market bite with other interests? Does this cabinet dare to choose for those other interests, even though that is sometimes the difficult story? Necessary climate policy or the further growth of emissions? Paying a fair tax or helping to avoid it? Does the Minister agree with our group that the dominance of neoliberal market thinking at EU level may have contributed to the distrust of many people towards the European Union? If the EU makes it possible for large companies to get rid of their profits and avoid tax, while citizens suffer the disadvantages of the level playing field of the market, it is difficult to believe that the EU is also there for citizens. Does the Minister acknowledge this and how does he intend to strengthen the support base?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u40	I just wanted to point out that the EU makes it possible to avoid taxes. If there is one feature of tax avoidance, it is a lack of EU intervention, because there are hardly any powers there. We have gradually come back to national measures against tax avoidance by means of a detour, the OECD, and ultimately, after some pressure from the EU. So it's the other way around. Of course, I have to ask it as a question. Is it not the other way round, Mrs Strik, that the EU has too few powers in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u41	Yeah, that's right, Mr. Backer. However, I see that the EU, or perhaps I have to say the Member States, has so far shown too little ambition to tackle the problem together. As a result, they continue to make it possible for companies to use different systems and tariffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u42	But then I have a further question on this point. Can you explain that the house is too small if the proposal is placed on the agenda that may perhaps be dealt with by majority decisions in tax matters in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u43	I will ask a question about this later, because I find that very regrettable. This is the way to tackle it at EU level, and in the end it would provide all Member States with a great deal of money to invest in the public sector, education, care and so on. I think we can find each other in that, but now it is still the question of why the government is not more ambitious in this respect. It is therefore difficult to believe that the EU is there for citizens. Does the Minister recognise this and how does he intend to strengthen that support? Does the Minister see the importance of increasing the emphasis on social policy, for example by giving sufficient space to Member States to spare their public sector from cuts so that they can continue to invest in education, care, employment and social services? The current imposed budgetary discipline is rather one-dimensional, without, for example, the insights of economists who say that anti-cyclical policies can produce more sustainable results in bad times than they do. The Netherlands is at the forefront of Brussels as a financial watchdog when countries like Italy spend too much, but at the same time trains the process of fair taxation for tech giants and is at the forefront of lowering the rates of profit tax. The race to the bottom that causes this makes for even less public money for public tasks. The Dutch opposition to majority decision-making in the event of tax avoidance is also the result of the fact that society misses a lot of public money. To what extent are the principles of equality of opportunity for citizens leading the way in which the government is set up? Does the Minister consider it important that a minimum wage has been set in all Member States? Does the Minister not find it strange to me that the Member States have created a major financial link, while there are so few common principles in the socio-economic field? The Brexit saga in our neighbors is painfully showing how important it is to have a substantive debate on what we stand for Europe, rather than a simple next-day discussion. There is no better evidence than Brexit itself to see the consequences: a divided society, loss of control and, above all, a waste of valuable time and resources to solve real problems. Discussions about for or against Europe also conceal the fact that today's Europe has come from political choices and that it can change as well. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is more social and fair. The European elections can be a turning point in the choices made by political parties and Member States. But even now, the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework for 2021-2027 are an excellent opportunity to take the lead and outline outlines for Union reform. What long-term vision is the Dutch commitment based on? According to the government, the MFF should focus more on issues where European added value is evident, for example on sustainability and climate. However, the cost picture seems to be the guiding principle of the Dutch negotiating position. Should we not recognise that higher ambitions also require more financial commitment? Isn't that why we need to focus our goals first? However, the government supports a substantial cut in cohesion policy and the Common Agricultural Policy. A significantly smaller budget would focus on innovation and societal goals, such as climate, environment, nature and landscape. But is this progressive enough to actually combat global warming at EU level? Are the climate ambitions laid down in the Dutch Climate Law not subordinate to the aim of not increasing the size of the MFK? I'd like a response from the Minister. The government also says it wants to make agricultural policy results-oriented, but how is this compatible with its plea for voluntary contributions to climate and the environment, on the one hand, and for more flexible demands on basic payments for farmers, on the other? So they must not go backwards. In fact, they need to meet fewer demands if it is up to the minister. Why not link the whole system of agricultural subsidies to climate requirements? After all, a huge part of CO emissions comes from agriculture and livestock farming. I'd like a response. The cost picture also appears to be constant when making the Structural and Cohesion Funds forward-looking, since the financial resources are only linked to respect for fundamental values after the Article 7 procedure has been completed. It therefore seems to have symbolic value. But a Europe truly of citizens will have to stand up for its fundamental values. The European Parliament has taken a brave step in forcing Hungary to restore the fundamental building blocks of a rule of law. During the General Political Reviews last year, I tabled a motion to allow the government to take the next step in the Council, but the Prime Minister felt that that motion was premature at that time. We are now six months away and what has happened in the Council? Did we or other Member States address Hungary? Does the EU have sufficient tools to ensure the democratic rule of law in all Member States? The Commission and the Council have not adopted the EP's resolution to establish a rule of law mechanism. Is not rethinking appropriate, when it seems that questionable national developments are so difficult or perhaps we want to stop them? We are too dependent on the political will, which seems to be too arbitrary and not strong to take action. This year we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Tampere conclusions, which laid down the principles for a European area of freedom, justice and security. One of the key elements that this area would strengthen is EU accession to the ECHR. Does the government also consider the new deadline to be a new opportunity for this accession to take place and, if so, how could that happen? The Tampere conclusions also provided for a common asylum system and we now have to note that, because of the lack of agreement between the Member States, the whole package of proposals is being moved to a new deadline. In particular, the lack of solidarity has a disastrous effect on the way in which countries at the external borders deter asylum seekers without giving them an opportunity to apply for asylum or to grant asylum. At the same time, the EU is pulling its hands off rescue operations in the Mediterranean. The pursuit of a common European asylum system has become a common policy of keeping away and shoving away. This has little to do with the fundamental values we have set out in the Charter, nor with the Tampere conclusion that we must respect the Refugee Convention generously. Does the government agree with me that European agreements with third countries should always examine the human rights implications of these agreements and make them depend on whether or not we make them? Does the government share our view that without a fair solution to the issue of distribution between the EU Member States, full harmonisation is not possible? And that we in the EU will indeed have to take a fair part in the reception of refugees worldwide? If so, how does the Minister see this happening? Does the government consider a possible transfer of powers to the EU level, going beyond that of the EASO and Frontex agencies, if it appears that harmonisation at national level is not always possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u44	Here I am actually curious about what the GroenLinks Group thinks of the idea that Macron launched, namely to go together with a smaller group and possibly create a kind of mini-Schengen, where you will find together what the safe countries are. So not as each country individually, but as the club that joins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u45	It is, of course, already happening that consideration is being given, including in the GEAS, to the question of what safe countries are. It's just that people don't get out of what safe countries are. That's true. Then, of course, you still insist that there must be an individual assessment. But the mini-Schengen would actually mean that you are going to exclude other countries from the current Schengen and that you are going to get a kind of multiple speeds. I would like to know from the Minister how he looks at how we can get the other Member States to actually participate. For example, Eastern European countries, which now continue to say: we are not relocating. Shouldn't the final conclusion be that this would also have repercussions for Schengen? In the end, that is the opposite of what Mr Knapen says. We are now dealing with the current Schengen. If it is not possible to create one unity in it, I do believe that downscaling could be an ultimate step. But it's not our preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u46	Then let's be specific. This could also mean that an asylum seeker simply goes back to a country that we do not regard as a safe country among ourselves here, but that is defined in that Schengen area as a safe country. Then it has been agreed in common that it is a safe country. Is that something GroenLinks could live with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u47	GroenLinks considers it very important that there is always an individual assessment of an asylum application. You can draw up a list and say 'Albania or Morocco is a safe country', but then you will always have to be able to say: yes, yes, but in my case it is not. So someone must always be given the opportunity to refute that safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u48	Mr. Knapen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u49	I note that for GroenLinks the concept of "safe country" has no meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u50	In the current right of asylum, there can be a pre-emption, an assumption of security, which places a greater political burden on asylum seekers to refute that security. We can go that far, but that is the current right of asylum. If Mr Knapen had the idea that a safe country list could be used to say "automatically return to that country," this would violate the Refugee Convention and also Article 3 of the ECHR. Especially when we talk about Europe and its values, I do not think we should want that. But, of course, if you work with that presumption, you can have much faster procedures, as long as they remain careful and the individual rebuttal is possible. Mr. Chairman. In the previous General European Reviews, I mentioned how important it is for the EU to let the Western Balkans move our way. Chamberwide was then asked for a more proactive attitude to maintain reform energy and not to make them dependent on the influence of Turkey, China or Russia. However, the momentum seems to decline from the accession process. There are several signs that the EU is not strong enough to facilitate the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. The change of the European Parliament is disrupting the continuity of the process, which may further reduce the pressure from the EU on the Balkans after the elections. What is the Minister's view of this, and what has he done since the previous reflections with the request from this Chamber to promote the process and support the reforms there? In what way does the EU also seek to make the Eastern Partnership a success? What appreciation does the Minister give and what more can we do to promote stability and reform there? We stand at a crossroads between further fragmentation and more of a unity. The European Union seems to have fallen into blocks, each with their own interests and their own policies. At a time when cross-border problems increasingly require an international approach. As far as we are concerned, the EU cannot afford to stand still or even implode. Macron's ideas about the future may not be all or for everyone alike, but they do show a vision of a direction that the EU should take. We need that more than ever. What does the Netherlands have against this? Almost an "I want my money back"-like attitude, with Minister Hoekstra profiling himself with the Hanzeliga as a counterpart to France and Franco-German cooperation. Grocery is always good for us, but what do we end up with? More coherence and cohesion? Better prepared for new challenges? The recent statements of our Prime Minister's political leadership are a relief compared to the previous two Cabinets, but my group still lacks the political courage and vision to do so. Courage to really want to prepare Europe for the 21st century. To dare to make European choices and defend them, even in their own countries. Courage not to turn the elections into a simple for or against Europe, but to launch a substantive debate, with a vision of tomorrow's Europe. Hopefully, in his reply, the Minister will begin to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. There's no interruption, but... Let me call it a reflection. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u52	It's an innovation, this. I thought for a moment about what Mrs Strik is right to present to the government, namely that it does not really come up with a vision as an alternative to Macron's vision. How does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance feel about Macron when it comes to the future of the European Union? Because you seemed to be particularly positive about that, but when I read one of Macron's last speeches, there seems to be a European solution to every problem. He wants a European agency to protect democracies, a European Council for Internal Security, a European Agency for Asylum, and so it continues for a while: a European climate bank, European supervision on large platforms... How does GroenLinks weigh that line, where you actually say: there are all kinds of problems, Europe is the answer? Is that also the GroenLinks line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u53	No, maybe I can start my speech again. I think I did have a different story about that. I'm not saying for nothing that they may not all be equally recruiting. We do not believe in it so much: if you create a new agency again, a problem will be solved. But at the same time Macron identifies a number of causes and problems and then tries to get on with them. I do not think that more Europe is always a solution. We are thinking more in another Europe anyway. But it is a fact that Mr Macron expresses a number of things, for example in the area of climate. That is where we need to show more common ambition and ensure that everyone is also committed to it. It lacks democracy. Then we need to rethink the way in which we want to do things. You, too, said in your speech that solutions must be found. You need to take a good look at that. We also saw more in our own budget for the euro area. It is therefore up to each subject whether you should opt for a flight forward, so that you arrange it properly and build more solidarity among yourselves. Or that you have to say: but here would be a completely different solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u54	I am pleased to note that we are at least in agreement on a number of points and find each other. We do not agree on everything, I think, but we do agree on the point that you should also be critical of Macron's plans. Finally, all these agencies raise the problem that Macron is right to talk about. They could increase Europe's democratic deficit. Because what about democratic control over these agencies? What about democratic legitimacy? For example, we now have the Eurogroup, which is not transparent at all. We're gonna get a lot of agencies. I am pleased to note that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is critical of this, if I have understood you correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u55	In any case, I think that sometimes the European Parliament needs a stronger position in order to actually control European agencies. Finally, foreign policy. Maybe we disagree on that. Macron also says that you should be more effective. We are very much in favour of this. We support that we should move more in the direction of majority decision-making, provided that the European Parliament has a role to play in this. Otherwise, you're actually only going to increase the democratic deficit. That must therefore be regulated at one level or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u56	Thank you again, Mrs Strik. Or did you want to respond, too, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u57	No, I'm gonna do my part now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u58	I thought it was Mr Postema's turn. Or did you switch it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u59	We changed seats because Mrs Strik had to go to a meeting. I've just verified that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u60	And you're swapping with Mr. Postama again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u61	No, I'm just gonna stand there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u62	Mr. Postema is right in front of you, but I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u63	I did not want to put Mr Backer at a disadvantage, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u64	Aha. I understand. Besides me, all exciting things happen here. Mr. Backer, you'll just have the floor. What more do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u65	Thank you very much for your generosity, Mr President. "Europe brings peace, security and prosperity to the Netherlands. In addition to an economic community, the European Union is a community of values in which the Netherlands feels at home." This is a literal quote from article 4.4 of the government agreement of the Rutte III cabinet. When that coalition agreement was concluded, a large number of important changes have already been made, which have ultimately been paradigm changes. Mr Knapen has already spoken about this. It is geopolitical changes that ensure that the European Union is virtually alone in the world. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are all kinds of links in NATO. The world has been rearranged. The future we saw is now. There is a great urgency to take important and far-reaching decisions in the interests of these and future generations. Do I also read this urgency in the State of the Union 2019? No, I'm afraid not. There are numerous sound analyses of emerging protectionism, the challenge of digitisation, the climate and the need for an energy transition, but not in the sense of paradigm change. Therefore, the clear choices that have been made are saving. In fact, the cabinet confines itself to a rather short agenda. I read on page 7: The Netherlands therefore has a great interest in a European Union of values and results. That is, at best, a variant of "Europe, quite important" from 2005. It doesn't breathe urgency, it doesn't inspire. Inspiration is important in politics. It is an essential condition for political leadership. The EU is not "very important"; in the D66 Group, the EU has become a prerequisite for the Netherlands, at this level of prosperity and protection. Can the Minister endorse this statement? Mr. Chairman. In last year's debate, I spoke of a central point in history. We have Trump, the Brexit, Salvini and Orbán in the camp of disruption. On the other hand, we have Merkel, Macron and the European Commission. Fortunately, I can now add that to Prime Minister Rutte. In this camp, the Prime Minister has been more frequent lately. We welcome that, because that is a start of inspiration. This must, of course, be followed by actions by him and the members of the cabinet. In this changing world that I have just spoken about, the gap within Europe is of course also deepening. That is the gap between those who strive for an open society in all sorts of variants and who want to continue to develop internationally, against those who strive for a closed society, thrown back into their own territory, often combined with a desire for the past. It will be clear on which side of this gap is the fraction of D66. It is our ambition to bridge this gap wherever possible. We now see more than ever the importance of the Dutch citizen to work and live within a community of values that is nurtured, that protects us and in which our children can grow up in that awareness. That was said earlier today by colleagues. We feel solidarity and solidarity with other Europeans, historical, cultural and human. In doing so, 'think and trade internationally' is the adage we follow. You may think it's an exaggeration, but if I see a burning Notre-Dame like last night, so do I. That is part of European culture. In five hours, 900 years of cultural history burns down there. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group is convinced that in this world important cross-border phenomena such as climate, terrorism, energy, trade and human rights are a crazy combination, but I would like to mention them together only cross-border effectively. This does not mean that nothing happens locally and nationally, but that it is more effective if the European Union is also, or sometimes exclusively, competent. In contrast to the symbolism of the nation's secrecy and manufactured uniqueness, it does not say that the country is not important and not that this room has no unique history or that our country does not. But the nation state is of course also a construction, if we look at history. Ultimately, the major paradigm change over the last 20 to 30 years is international cooperation and peace, at least in Western Europe. I am sorry, Mr Schalk, but the decision of this Chamber last week to reject the initiative law of Van der Staaij was important. It would have had far-reaching consequences for the role of the Netherlands in European cooperation. Mr. Chairman. There are several concrete plans for progress that would justify a debate of their own: the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), which already passed through the euro area budget, the White Paper on the future, instruments of rule of law, the social pillar of Europe and, last but not least, the Brexit. I will come back to those points in a moment, but of course I have to make a choice. Besides, I can't leave the Brexit unspoken. My group sees that the Minister has had to spend a lot of joyless time and energy on the Brexit. That is precisely where the danger lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u66	I listened with interest to what Mr Backer said about the paradigm change that has taken place over the last 20 years. When I listened to that, I thought, "Aren't you working on a paradigm change that's actually been behind us for a while?" What concerns me, although that is not necessarily my vision, is that we are now in another paradigm change. Everywhere in Europe you see groups that make a very different attitude towards Europe visible. We have, of course, also seen a certain result in our Provincial State elections. Hungary is mentioned here today, like Italy, and you are about to say something about the Brexit. We know movements in France and also in our own country. They have nothing to do with the paradigm you just outlined, in which everything tends towards more cooperation. It is precisely a paradigm change that extends to something else, out of great discontent with the European Union. I wonder if you weren't busy with something that you yourself thought was very important in the last 20 years, when you don't see what's actually moving and changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u67	In reply to Mr Kuiper's question, I would like to return to the fact that the time limit of 20 years may be too short. It's much longer. It is clear that these phenomena have developed over the past period. I'm gonna go into that later. I also consider what I believe is causing this and what we should do with it. I was just talking about the rift. But you will summarize it very briefly by saying that the paradigm change is that it is all against the European Union. I doubt that. But perhaps, if Mr Kuiper gives me the opportunity to deepen my story, I will get to his points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u68	Mr President, I shall wait until I have heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u69	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u70	Mr. Chairman. I just feel like we'll disagree. But that's okay, it's part of democracy. President Macron was right to warn me that I was at the Brexit and the joyless time that the Minister must devote to it. The 27 Member States remain trapped in a British king drama of which no one gets better. What is the Dutch government's commitment to this separation debate until Halloween at the latest? What's the Minister's estimate? That energy is better spent on a positive agenda for the 27. The concern of my group, which I want to put at the centre of today, is transcending. The question I am asking is whether the government is investing enough in a Europe that protects it. If so, how does that prove? Why is it that, to my great delight, the issue has been raised by fellow Members of this House before, the government is opposed to a greater contribution to the MFF against a euro area budget and has the Minister of Finance write in many European newspapers that he would like to opt out if necessary? That's twice against and once running away. So that does not give the impression of constructive consultation. What sophisticated strategy is behind this that we don't know about? Can the Minister brief us on this? Maybe I'm showing it too sketchy, it's much more nuanced. I look forward to the answer. The question with us is whether the Netherlands can afford this attitude. For how does the Minister assess the effects of the Franco-German friendship treaty, which has recently been renewed? That goes a long way: once a year the governments meet in full together and I believe that once every three months one of the ministers is present in the other cabinet. Of course, the Netherlands is not sitting at the table, we are sitting at the table in Brussels. That would also be the question to this coordinating minister: has he sufficiently noticed that the Netherlands is threatening to isolate itself from the euro area budget? What deeper strategic thoughts are behind the Hanzeliga? He has already visited us a few times and I checked: Tampere is also in one of the countries of the Hanzeliga, namely Finland. Why don't we use the Benelux anymore? Are we getting along enough with the German neighbours, with whom we have incredibly many interests in common? Maybe we differ in scale, but the interests are very often parallel. Mr. Chairman. I do not see this sophisticated strategy for myself, I see mainly dawdling and I have the impression that urgency and momentum are not being used. I think that's a shame, but I'd be happy to let the Minister convince me otherwise. I also see a lot of loss of executive power in the cabinet. In preparation for this debate, I have read the reports of the general consultations in the House of Representatives. I have the impression that the ministers are in the Lower House more often than they are in negotiations with Member States. Is that analysis correct, the observation? The new democracy must, of course, also work in such a way that a mandate can be given and that it can be reported on afterwards. But not that the minister leaves with his hands tied behind his back. Why is the Minister letting this happen? Is this really what I am asking the question in a variant that Mr Knapen has already brought up, the fear of public opinion? The cabinet writes: it is important not to put the vote against out of order. It is important that the citizens hold hold hold on to the future. This is on page 10 of the State of the Union, with a footnote and a reference to the citizens' perspectives of the Social and Cultural Planning Office. Of course putting people out of order is no one's wish. The Netherlands is a pluralist society, with many political movements, represented in this Chamber. No one's gonna put anyone out of order. By the way, who has the authority to put someone out of order? But, in the run-up to the elections to the European Parliament, will the cabinet engage in dialogue within that order with those who criticise the EU? And also within our own coalition, I ask Mr Knapen and Mr Schaap. Because there too, of course, this discussion is extremely necessary. That's more urgent than ever. I would like to hear from the Minister what initiatives are in preparation for the run-up to 23 May. Is there a dialogue or a campaign in preparation to help bridge the gap and increase turnout compared to the previous elections? I shall be a little more visual on this point: the D66 Group sees the European action of our former colleague Hoekstra and the slim content of the State of the Union as being what I call a colossal error of assessment. Mr Knapen spoke with a kinder expression: a tragic mistake. But I think we're talking about the same thing. Those moderate middle parties think that with a bit of windowdressing, a bit of fine talk, the critics of the EU can take the wind out of the sails. The essence of this, in my view, is that failures are the fault of Brussels, while successes come from The Hague. Or: Europe, quite important. Mr. Chairman. This hasn't worked in ten years. Meanwhile, the Netherlands is losing influence, all citizens are losing influence. The dialogue therefore begins with the question to those who are critical of the European Union....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why do they want to cut off the branch we're sitting on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u71	This seems like a good time, not to break down the branch, but at least to interrupt your story. We have already heard three coalition parties, not the smallest, all of which are making quite a critical argument towards the European attitude of this cabinet. Actually, they all do so in the same way: come up with a vision, think a little ahead and don't be too scared. Could Mr Backer explain to me why those ideas of the political groups are so little reflected in and so little influence on the attitude of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u72	Let me first say that the political groups have come to the same position independently. There has been no group meeting here. Secondly, I think it may be that the groups in this Chamber feel freer to take up the position they feel should represent the political movement and, of course, colleagues across the street feel much more bound up with the coalition agreement. You know how it works: if you had participated with GroenLinks, we would probably have had a much less critical story to the cabinet. But you didn't participate. So there is a mutual relationship in the cabinet about which line is chosen. I see it as my job in this Chamber to also give direction to how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u73	My point is precisely that three out of the four coalition groups are not really saying much about the composition of the cabinet here. The question is why this does not sound at all, or can be seen, in the attitude of the Netherlands in Brussels. But my question which follows is what influence the coalition groups can still have on the attitude of the Dutch government in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u74	You're making it very schematic right now. Criticism in the cabinet doesn't mean that good things don't happen across the street. That would be too easy a summary. But this debate once a year, not on legislation but on the whole, gives us the opportunity to highlight a number of points that we consider important. Then it would be nice if this were to work through in later legislation that will reach this Chamber. It would be wonderful if the cabinet would anticipate the thoughts that live here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u75	I would like to continue briefly on the subject of Mr Strik, because I noticed that exactly as well. It is more European than it is European in terms of the groups of VVD and CDA, very well crafted, handsome, good visionary stories, and an extremely critical story of D66. We're not standing here for nothing. What are you going to do politically with that, other than that you brought it in here? I can also imagine that you are extremely critical of the functioning of your colleague, Mr D66-Room members across the street, because they must get the chestnuts out of the fire for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u76	College Postema has experienced in this Chamber for four years how his colleagues, as parties supporting the coalition, work. Of course, it is a privilege for me to discuss with colleagues across the street directions of politics that I consider important or to work on a party programme or an electoral programme for European elections. We're in on that, too. And I try to use my influence here and there for the things that matter to me. Then there are colleagues who try to bring these positions into a cabinet position within the coalition consultation. But I also think it is the job of this Chamber, because why else should we hold political reflections to name the things that we consider important. Of course your question is entirely valid. We've got two more years, so I hope that's gonna ring a bell. I hope we can get the minister a little excited today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u77	I did notice the same thing. In any case, I note that the visions that exist here, or at least those of three of the four coalition parties, on the future of the European Union, have not been reflected in the coalition agreement at the time. I would like to come back to another point. I share Mr Backer's criticism of the lack of vision on the part of the cabinet. What he is actually saying is: yes, it is said that Europe is quite important, but at the same time it is doing some sort of lip service to the critics of Europe, a sort of windowdressing, by saying 'Europe is important, but we are also very critical of it, so we are going to stand on the brakes'. If it does not work in Brussels, if we cannot do it, it is actually Brussels' fault. You could also translate what the cabinet does as paying lip service to those who criticize how the European Union works now, but at the same time continue along the same path, as I suggested earlier in my speech. But what is the alternative that Mr Backer would like to put on the table, not only with lip service, but with which you address in a real way the concerns of people who have also led to the Brexit and who still lead to discontent about the EU? Mr Kuiper asked for this earlier. Perhaps you will come to that later in your speech, but I have not yet heard it. How are you trying to take these concerns seriously from the point of view of D66 and to say that we have a different story about Europe, other than Mr Blok's?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u78	Now, round up your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u79	It's finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u80	I understand the question and Mr Van Apeldoorn's assumption is correct: I am still going into both points. I shall come back to that, and if that is not enough, he will undoubtedly have time for a rebuttal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u81	And then briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u82	I was at the branch on the tree that symbolises the European Union. That tree has been planted and grown in the awareness of the importance of peace and cooperation for future generations and anticipated on a world where cross-border problems had to be solved together. It was, of course, initially a peace project for coal and steel. We all know the history of it. That tree needs attention and care to stay in that metaphor. The shape does not always match: sometimes branches or sprouts grow. Who had thought of the GDPR regulation in advance? Nobody. But that ultimately arises in the development. But it's also our tree. It is the tree of the first planters at that time. That was the Netherlands. Now it's 28 and maybe 27. In the dialogue, it should be said to the public that, if you put the axe at the root of the tree, at best, an intergovernmental Europe will be created. In an intergovernmental Europe, the big countries are making the decisions. That's part of it. Does the Minister share this analysis? The alternative vision of the future, perhaps to some extent Mr Van Apeldoorn stands for and to some extent Mr Kuiper stands for, very often has the image of a rear-view mirror. The explanation of those who are called "the ones who are ready with the saw for this branch" in symbolism is always that if you fall from that branch, you will not be lower, but rather higher. It gets better. There is a variant that says: you may get on the ground, but it's better there too, because we used to always be on it. With "previously" you appeal to a nostalgic feeling that is latent in everyone. Mr Van Apeldoorn also mentioned the grip on the future. But what's that? That's elusive symbolism. Honestly, that's too vague to go along with honest politics. 'Cause what level is that grip on? At what level in time? Then what are the causes of that loss? That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Kuiper. Perhaps it is much more the municipal reclassification than the European competition rules. Maybe it's the phosphate directive. Or Google or Amazon. You should peel that off. You should do that in the discussion and dialogue with those who are critical. The idea is that we address Google or Amazon on a national scale. Then we'll teach them mores! We're gonna do tax avoidance like this. We're also going to do CO pricing at national level. We're also gonna be dealing with shuffle software at national level. Fortunately, Mr Gerbrandy in the European Parliament has been able to tackle Volkswagen because he had the power to say it in English to do so. Mr. Chairman. Let me finish, because then I have sufficiently cheered up Mr Van Apeldoorn. My experience in that dialogue is that you can argue against a Brexit and a Nexit with facts until you weigh an us, but that ultimately it's always about symbolism. The Brexit is the first pilot in which the symbolism is broken in real terms. We'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u83	You were done chasing Mr. Van Apeldoorn? You were chasing the minister, too. And Mr Kuiper is about to get his ass kicked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u84	Yeah, I put it up as a task today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u85	These are going to be insane General European Reviews. May I kindly ask you to formulate compactly, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u86	Yes, I will, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the SP has no nostalgia towards the past, but wants to move forward. That is what socialism stands for. But if Mr. Backer is talking about getting grip on, that's too vague for me. Let me give another concrete example from my speech. The municipality of Appingedam would like to get a grip on its own policy when it comes to zoning plans. This applies to many municipalities, ask the VNG. For example, they do not want to allow a shoe discount on a business site because they want it to go to the center. Then the European market, with the Bolkestein directive in hand, says that it cannot, because it interferes with the free movement of services. Municipalities, and so people, then have insufficient control over the way the internal market is organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u87	You mentioned the example in your speech. I've listened very carefully, too. This was accompanied by an observation that European competition law, which is one of Europe's most far-reaching pieces and which is also supported by the European Court of Justice, is, in our view, sometimes misreading. I agree with you, because sometimes it doesn't work out. I myself have been involved in complex discussions with municipalities about state aid. It's complicated sometimes, too. You can see that the ACM is going to behave differently in the area of care. There are areas in which competition law is too much of a market-based whole and other public interests are not given sufficient attention. But now I'm getting to the point where you have to do it and that's why it's nostalgic. You think at the level of the municipality of Appingedam, but if you look a little more at the region, then also agreements are made with the province and the municipalities about the organisation of the market in the region. Where are shops and where aren't they? It's okay to agree on that. There could be cartel agreements again that you don't want. I've had to deal with the construction cartel myself in my working life. The whole of the Netherlands loved it locally arranged with the Dutch construction companies, because they just made arrangements in a café. That was very good for the Netherlands, because that was how all companies had work. Yeah, but the clients paid way too much for decades. That's the other side of it. So that fine locality is not always in the public interest, but I admit that, because of certain aspects of competition law, or indeed of European regulation, we do not have enough room to deal with the public issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u88	Mr. Van Apeldoorn. You'll be brief, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u89	I'll be very brief. I think Mr Backer is making a bit of a caricature of the SP position here. Of course, we do not think that the municipality of Appingedam or any other municipality should take care of everything and that you should organize everything at the level of the municipality. There are, of course, Member States, you have the national and the European level, and there is also a European market organisation. We do not want to abolish them altogether, because if you have a European market for goods, you must also have product standards and so on, etc. But I'm glad we're finding each other at the point we were just talking about, this example of the municipality of Appingedam. I notice that there is little criticism of the government or of the government's vision of the EU at this point in the whole story about a branch, but I like to note that we find each other there. I think that, as a social-liberal party, you should also pay attention to the social consequences of the internal market. They're not always in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u90	I'm going to serve Mr. Van Apeldoorn on his beck and call later. After all, it is another nuanced argument. Mr. Chairman. I was at the first real concrete experience of cutting off the branch, namely the Brexit. The unbundling of the exit agreement shows, of course, that what is called 'ceteris paribus' in the economy, namely that all other factors remain the same, can never apply after a Brexit. The political leaders in the UK did not have a solution for this either. That turned out to be the day after the referendum. Nigel Farage immediately resigned as leader of UKIP. Gradually, it turns out that the promise actually didn't have any substance. This is tragic for those who voted in good faith. In fact, it's a time machine without a real calendar or plan: back to somewhere, back to when it was better. But the big question is, of course, when was that? Everything has gradually changed since the Treaty of Rome. In the metaphor, the tree has been given many branches. We have had all these great treaties, the Treaties of Maastricht, Nice and Lisbon, and then all the other less large ones. The essence of my point is that the Brexit is of a symbolic order. No cost-benefit analysis has been made. The value of sovereignty has only been mentioned and pursued, but the value for the citizens, that what that sovereignty is going to earn in real terms in their lives, has never been priced at all. You could say "that might not be priced, because that's a feeling" but then you should also be honest and say: it's going to cost you a lot of money, but well, then you'll be back in your own trusted environment. That is why "take back control" has of course been found so handsome, because it encourages the feeling of losing grip and ignores the characteristic that cross-border action over the national scale is needed to be effective. This is even more true for the Netherlands than for the UK. Let those who say that in a Brexit but also in a nexit just say honestly: we are going to lose prosperity, we are less effective, the citizen is going to go backwards, but we have our way; the pain is through self- chastisement, but it is less bad, because we have done it ourselves. That is not the line we want to choose. That's why a Brexit is also a destructive concept. Unfortunately, we can now see that unfolding. What's the other approach now? Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Kuiper also asked for this. That is the further development, construction and improvement of the European Union. There are many persistent differences in prosperity, between Member States, between regions, in neighbourhoods, in cities, between developed countries with a developed welfare state and Member States that do not yet have a minimum wage or even have no assistance. The European Union is a community of values which is progressing shockfully, sometimes backwards, and which is not moving forward unanimously. You'd love to, but you can see that it's also deteriorating in some areas. We have already discussed the complaints about Poland and Hungary, about Article 7. But at crucial moments, which could have turned out to be quite different, the EU, and within the euro area, proved more shock-resistant than expected. I would remind you of the role of the support funds. We have passed them all here in the legislation: Ireland, Malta, Cyprus, Portugal, Spain. They are now back in a phase of economic growth. We now have 3.8% unemployment in this country. Economic growth is taking place in all the countries of Europe. We would have cut the Netherlands down, but it didn't happen. The shock-resistant capacity of the euro area was much greater than we thought. But there are shortcomings. We do not need to be convinced of that. A number of instruments needed to mitigate macroeconomic shocks and stimulate investment have not been included in the instruments when introducing the single currency. That was too early then, but I'd say it's time to do so now. Before the forthcoming European elections, my colleagues in the European Parliament have many radical wishes in many areas, including the circular economy, the energy transition, consumer protection and the social dimension. I come to the point Mr Van Apeldoorn mentioned. There is also an important moment of choice and, in my opinion, a dilemma for him as well. The social pillar can only take shape if facilities are put in place to promote social security in other Member States that are lagging behind. So it is not about breaking our system down to a lower level, but about helping to build other systems. For example, freedom in connectedness should look from the social-liberal point of view: forward rather than stagnation. Then the differences in prosperity will not disappear as snow before the sun, but together we can do more than separate. This was also discovered by the States of Holland and Friesland in this room, where we are now allowed to meet. Mr. Chairman. It concerns the D66 Group in debates that we look ourselves in the eye and say: it is our responsibility to do better in those international fora, to form the right coalitions, to be inventive, and to run a step faster or to be smarter. The outcome is the result of giving and taking. That was just the subject of Mr Schaap. There is now a creeping erosion of self-confidence of middle parties in our country and in other countries in Europe, sometimes with the open accommodation that the EU is the cause of all shortcomings. But that's not gonna make us any better. The symbolism of the anti-EU sentiments discussed reflects a choice not to dare to engage in dialogue with the critics of Europe, but we must have that dialogue. "You cannot live in chatter or symbolism," said a former politician of the Labour Party. The defense file just came by. That's actually exemplary. Of course, very far-reaching decisions have already been taken on joint defence, NATO and the EU. We were just talking about sovereignty again, but we are already working with the Belgians and with the Germans. We have integrated brigades. The Dutch army can no longer act without other European countries. We could, in my mind, save about 30 billion dollars in European defence procurement if we worked together. We have now reached legally binding agreements on a European security and defence policy, also on the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u91	It is in the State of the Union, but I have a feeling that the cabinet is discussing it a little overflowing. I think we should avoid getting blamed again for someone else screwing up somewhere. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... It's a deal. They're important, and we're heading in that direction. Mr. Chairman. Does not Europe, with over 500 million inhabitants after China and the United States, have the largest population in the world, an independent interest in protecting its people and its territory? May I invite the Minister to go into this, particularly with regard to the discussion of sovereignty and the obstacles to taking action? Mr. Chairman. With the point that we go to Brussels with our hands on our backs and then say that we should not, I think you should take the saw out of the cathedral. I just got the comment from one of my colleagues that "foedral" is an old-fashioned word. Modern is that: cover. You get the saw to cut off the branch. Anyone who thinks he can do our country a favour by talking to the nexitees at their mouths is ultimately being irresponsible. If I sum up the discussion we are having today, about Brussels, about Mr Hoekstra and about the steps we need to take, then I say: you have to invest first if you want to get a return. He should know that, too. Otherwise, we're all gonna lose to this discussion. It's getting spotted. I am looking at Mr Kuiper. It's being seen by the public that this is a game. Mr Van Apeldoorn's perspective may be different, but I think that you can only move forward and take concrete steps in that direction, and that is something that needs to be worked out. I think we should have collective bargaining power with changing partners in Europe. Otherwise, it will make us collectively poorer. I wanted to refer to President Roosevelt's words in 1932, in the depths of the crisis: the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. The only fear we have to fear is fear itself. We just need to move forward. There's a lot of criticism of President Macron, but he's got the nerve to deal with things. He spoke in Aachen when he received the Charlemagne Prize on 10 May 2018: "I do not believe in the myth that the more than 70 years of peace have given us a perfect Europe, of which we only have to take care of the legacy; I do not believe that because Europe will still be divided by history and by the tragedy of history." He called for courage, imagination and cooperation under the term "l'Europe qui protège." Europe protects. I would like to join in that. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u92	The gentlemen are standing by. Mr. Van Apeldoorn is sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u93	They're holding up threateningly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u94	They're a little sneaky at the microphone, but they're not at the microphone yet. As long as they weren't there, I thought maybe we'll get a question when you're done. I see now that it may turn out to be an interruption after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u95	I'm gonna convince them in the last 40 seconds I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u96	Mr. Kuiper shakes no and Mr. Van Apeldoorn does nothing. He's doing something. You're keeping it short, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u97	Very briefly, then, an interruption, as you insist. I would like to come back to the imagination, progress and then to European defence. I know D66 as a party that values democracy. I know that we will not be able to say today that you have different views on democracy at European level versus only at national level and how best to set it up. Now I read in the initiative paper for a European military force that we must go to a European Commissioner for Defence and a European Defence Commission of the European Parliament. Does D66, your group, think that such a European military force will have sufficient democratic legitimacy with an unelected Commissioner and a committee in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u98	I've taken note of the note. It has been filed as a chamber of inquiry, so it will be dealt with. There are some very good thoughts in it. It's working out a thought. You said in your speech in this debate that D66 is now in favour of a European Defence, but I would remind you that Hans van Mierlo has always advocated a European foothold within NATO from the start of his political debates, if not further: a European defence unit. He also contributed to this later as Minister of Defence. Whether that'll be the right shape, we'll have to see. But if, within the MFF, the budget debate, you are going to include funds for a European defence in the order of magnitude that has just been discussed, then there will also have to be a structure. The most obvious structure is then to place it within the Commission, but you know as well as I do that there are a lot of different bodies involved in defence cooperation, in PESCO and in all the agreements of the European security and defence policy. So that won't be the only thing. It's probably not the end station either. More and better than I say now in response to Mr Van Apeldoorn, I cannot see it. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are holding this debate for the last time with the Chamber in this composition and under your direction. As far as my group is concerned, this annual recording of meters in Europe is a tradition to continue, but that will be decided by the next Chamber. Subject to legislation and oral consultations, there is actually no other opportunity........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We have been offered that opportunity again today. I look forward to the Minister's answers to our and other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mr. Kuiper has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u100	I waited until Mr Backer's last word to see if I could see the answer to my question. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I have heard three times that Mr Backer disagrees with me, but I have actually not said anything here. Perhaps the debate will lead to a little more convergence later than you suspect. It could be. My point was as if you were monitoring what's going on in our time. Then it's not just about sentiments. They may be sentimental, but it's about what's politically moving on the European continent. There are movements in Hungary and Poland. The Brexit is going on. I also mentioned Italy. There are also movements in our own country. That was the first time you said you disagreed with me, but I think we agree. I am deeply concerned about the developments and lyrics that are also happening here in the Netherlands and which we have not heard before, about a boreal world, about the dilution of our population. Orbán used those terms, too. They also sound here in our political arenas. It's the first time we've heard that. That says something. Then I find it shallow when you say that we have a paradigm change that means that we all want to work together even more in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u101	Can you finish your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u102	This was my question. I would like a reply from Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u103	I leave the qualification "surfacely" to Mr Kuiper. This is what I wanted to argue. He can blame me for not opening the debate and the dialogue in its entirety, but I said that the debate should be held on this subject. That's my reproach to the cabinet. It has said: we pretend for a moment that it is not very important, this unrest in society. That is one aspect. That debate must be held. That's why I'm interrupting Mr Faber. That debate must be held. Those who are critical of Europe form a very diverse palette. Those are the extremes you call them. There are also people who are just worried. There are people who think it's going in the right direction by once making a protest voice. That's a very diverse palette. I don't think there's any opinion there. This is, of course, also surveyed by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, Eurostat. There is a survey: what do you think about it; what topics do you think are important? The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau examines five topics. What is considered important in the Netherlands? As you can see, support for the European Union has been increasing consistently for ten years. Concerns lie on very concrete issues. They have to do with migration, living, how people deal with each other, how we treat each other on the tram, that sort of thing. I think that if you wipe all that up and say that that's the fault of the EU... That does not seem to me to be the debate. This dialogue must be conducted. That's one way. On the other hand, if the parties responsible in this Chamber and on the other side pretend that the 15% or 20% that this concerns represents the entire population and is thus trying to stop progress in Europe, then I think: no, that is not how democracy works. That's the core of my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u104	You speak of 'progress', but I think what we see manifesting are feelings of mutual hostility within Europe and also hostility towards other people and other civilisations, and even ethnic enmity. I can see that coming up again. In my view, then, it is not about more or less Europe. Nor is it the case that Europe is to blame for this, but these are the ideas that are manifesting themselves. You're gonna have to count on that. This requires a very different answer than: let us, as European countries, work even more together. This requires an answer in terms of political and human visions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u105	I do not follow Mr Kuiper's speech. We are linking the debate on the further development of Europe with concerns that live in society. I say that dialogue must be conducted fairly and openly, and you should not pretend and say: we agree with you a little, but we will continue to do so. Then you need to explain what you're doing. There is a very different debate going on in society, which we all have to participate in and participate in, but I believe that this has much less to do with European integration. There are, of course, elements of this, such as foreign workers in the Netherlands, poor housing situations in the Westland and other things. But sometimes these debates are also very wonderful. That's what came through the WW debate. It's just like a Polish employee can work here for a while and then enjoy his WW for six months in Poland. No, he'll have to pay six years' bounty first. The European Union's proposal also covers cross-border workers and a number of regulations concerning the country of residence and the country of work, a number of things that will definitely improve the social domain across Europe. It's just narrowed down to something like that. If that's the way you're arguing, you're gonna call your own resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u106	Very briefly, Mr. Kuiper. I'm gonna take a look at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u107	I think this is too complicated to work out right now. We might need a day to do that. But my point is that the peoples of Europe must also want to live together. There's a big problem there. I am not saying that that is my position, because I regret that too, but you need a very different language than you are speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u108	I look forward to that conversation with colleague Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u109	Mrs Faber, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u110	I won't do an introduction, because Mr. Backer is clever enough to understand the question. Mr Backer indicates that the European Union's support is growing and is also strong. But we might as well have adopted Van der Staaij's bill. If that were the case, would all this European legislation not have been an obstacle to that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u111	The smartest answer is that Mr English has had that debate and knows much more about it than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u112	But that's a little weak, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u113	Yeah, that's kind of lame. I understand Mrs Faber's question. That would be to say: you have sufficient confidence to do so. But, of course, I have been in the debate, and I understand very well why the proposal has been tabled. This is to ensure that many proposals relating to the transfer of powers can be brought under that rule. Then, of course, it is just the question of whether a discussion in both chambers will allow us to move beyond the issues of international cooperation and the rule of law and the community of values that we are in favour of. From our point of view, that would be too much self-confidence. You know what public opinion is like. He could be different tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u114	Very briefly, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u115	One point: it is not a question of self-confidence; it is more a question of a little doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u116	Well, then Mrs Faber has managed to get me to leave here with doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u117	In dubiis abstin, I'll say. You can also say "in dubiis pro re"; it doesn't matter. Thank you, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-7.u118	We've spent half an hour assigned to the Emergency Repair Tax Unit Act. It is now 3.40 p.m., so I hope that we can continue with the General European Reviews around 16.10 p.m. or 16.15 p.m. The sitting is suspended for a very short time.
