ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u1	We continue the debate on the Wet experiment closed coffeeshop chain, Kamerstuk 34997. We have come to the answer of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We're talking about the bill experiment closed coffeeshop chain. Over the front of coffeeshops, we have been pursuing a policy of tolerance in the Netherlands for many years. The back door is not arranged and this raises all kinds of issues of public order and security. That's what local government, mayors, have been pointing out for years. That is why we are doing this experiment and that is why it is in the coalition agreement. It says that we want to measure the effects of that closed coffee shop chain on public order, nuisance and safety on the one hand and public health on the other. This addition "public health" is a very important part of the experiment. Some of you stressed this this morning, and I am happy to repeat it. It gives us the opportunity to pay extra attention to the prevention of soft drug use. Information in schools, use by young people, warnings on packaging and advertising bans: a lot of what is now part of the tolerance policy, the so-called AHOJG criteria, is very much on the justice side. I see an opportunity to emphasise much more not only the AHOJG, but also the P of prevention on the basis of the experiment. For me there is an important value of the experiment. Mr. Chairman. In order to set up the experiment properly and effectively, we, Mr Grapperhaus and I, have asked for advice from the Knottnerus Committee. He's done an incredible amount of work. We would like to thank you very much for that. The work of the Knottnerus Committee has not yet been completed, but a great deal of work has been done, and also in quite an up-tempo, if I may say so. Thank you for that. Today we're discussing the law. Much of the debate this morning was already about the content of the AMvB. That makes it a bit tricky and it also invites, maybe it also challenges, to go into subjects from that AMvB every now and then. However, we do not want to do so. Why not? We have completed the consultation round for a large number of parties, but there are also a number of parties, OM, police, Dutch Data Protection Authority, which we have given a little longer time and of course we also want to hear the views, to see if the AMvB that we have put into circulation and submitted for consultation needs to be adapted. I therefore confine myself today to the law and hope that we will be able to discuss the content of the AMvB in April. Why April? Because then we have the reactions of all parties. Then we've been able to process them. Then we have also been able to involve the official portal, the Under-Council and the Council of Ministers in, where necessary, the adjustments to the design of the AMvB. So that's what we're here to talk about. However, I would like to make a number of comments in this debate, of course, on public health and prevention and on the international context and on research and evaluation. When we come to talk about the AMvB, so in April, I will expand this list of topics and also deal with cultivation, cultivation, delivery and monitoring; that kind of subject. Mr Grapperhaus will focus on issues of public order, security, crime, nuisance, the participation of the municipality and the opinion of the Knottnerus Committee. Then I have made two divisions: that which Grapperhaus says and what I say and what we now say about the law and later on about the AMvB. Mr. Chairman. Following these general comments, I have a number of questions to answer from the various Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr Van Nispen on the general...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yes, Chairman, about the trial. 'Cause that's exactly how it is, of course, impossible to separate. Today, however, we are being asked to agree to a law that allows the experiment to be closed coffeeshop chain. But in order to be able to agree, we have asked a lot of questions. That is why we have this debate. Inevitably, there are also questions about issues relating to the general measure of governance. Does the Minister recognise that, if he asks us to agree to a law that allows us to test on such an important subject, or should we, as far as possible, have an insight into those important questions? I am referring, for example, to the gradual nature of the matter, to the producers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u6	Your questions are very good. I also think that what you said this morning is very valuable, because it allows us to give a better response on the basis of the consultation round in the draft AMM. But I can't give you those answers yet, and I'm not going to. It sounds a little reluctant, but it's not like that. It would be a little crazy if we were to have opinions on this, and then say: the consultation round has changed a bit and we have had a discussion in the Council of Ministers and that has come out a little differently, so we have to change our opinion a little bit. I don't feel like it. That's why today's law and later the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u7	That will get us into trouble next Tuesday, because then we will have to vote on the law. One of the considerations for GroenLinks will be whether we think that this experiment has a chance of success or whether we think that it is built up so that it is actually doomed to fail. It is of course important to have a better understanding of, for example, the phased introduction. Because if we are talking about a clean sweep we might be able to talk about the substance in a moment, and you can imagine that there are many more people going to the black market. That gives GroenLinks much less confidence in this experiment. What are we supposed to vote on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u8	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u9	The question is whether the Minister could still deal with these matters somewhat, otherwise I do not know what to do on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u10	No, I can only deal with this very briefly. Again, this consultation is going on. You attach great importance to the views of the parties from the field. You attach importance to the views of professional parties such as OM, police, NVWA, Dutch Data Protection Authority. Then you must also give us the opportunity to express an opinion on this. We have agreed in the coalition agreement that this experiment will take place. We are now making a proposal for this. We also intend to do this sometime up-tempo and not waste time. Of course, there would also have been an opportunity to discuss law and AMvB together. Then it would have been up ahead in time. I think it is very good to talk now about the experimental law and what belongs to the AMvB, and that is a lot to do at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u11	I'm trying to understand the Minister, and I can imagine that very well. At the same time, I understand that we want to have an idea of how the cabinet looks at a number of things. Of course we're gonna talk about that AMvB. Then the cabinet can make very sharp what the thought was and how it was adapted. Can I understand it so that where the thoughts have been crystallized, we can, under a kind of reservation of the interpretation of the AMvB, get some sort of picture of how the cabinet looks at them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u12	In fact, I do not want to offer too much hope here, because on that theme of the clean sweep I really need views from different professional parties. That is an important point for you. I heard that this morning. Clean sweep, yes or no, and is that part of the experimental phase or the preparatory phase? We're not going to cross that out today. You will have no idea today from both of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u13	Interestingly, the cabinet is giving a direct answer to the question I had, namely: is it being submitted to police and prosecutor? That's the answer. So I hear that a number of thoughts can be exchanged, which gives the cabinet some explanation of which direction it is going, without deciding what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u14	Well, it's a bit procedural here and there. I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u15	Having heard what has now been changed, I share what Mrs Van Toorenburg has said. It's important to have some kind of explanation. An explanation can also be a procedural answer in the vein of this is interesting, we are going to talk about this with a number of parties. I can also imagine that a number of parties are going to table motions that may not be ready because there is no definitive AMvB yet. But that, before we talk about the definitive AMvB, we can get a response to that, in a letter, for example, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u16	We're not here to handle anything administrative. We are having an orderly debate here. I am trying to frame it a little bit, because you have asked a lot of questions, again, which we said: we need to think carefully about. Of course, I'm going to try to do a little more than just say something about that very small list that's in the law, but the treatment of the AMvB is really later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u17	I understand. I have asked a lot of questions about this myself. However, I assume that in a somewhat later period the directors will come back to a number of questions, which sometimes agree, for example in writing or in reactions to any motions, so that we have a complete picture on that basis. I think that's the need that lives there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u18	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u19	Without notice, the Minister has already started answering one of my questions, namely: does it not make sense to deal with this bill at the same time as an AMvB, the AMvB that provides the elaboration of a lot of details? So this is going to end, work hard on the AMvB and then there's some kind of parallel process going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yes, and I've already told you that I'm not in favour of that. We have a law now, and that's where the main line lies. This is one of the few passages in the coalition agreement with which a period of time has been given: the government is going to try to submit a legislative proposal within a month or six. It has not been entirely six months, but we do want to show that we are working seriously on this bill, so now the law and later the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u21	But I hear from colleagues, from both the opposition and the coalition, that there is a great need for a more detailed explanation, a more detailed interpretation and colouring, of the general lines outlined in the law. That would be an argument for that, wouldn't it? We are very critical of it, including the AMvB. I can tell you that. But I can imagine that the procedure is being considered again: shouldn't you let this run parallel anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u22	A piece of the coloring is really new, but the main moot is later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u23	Please continue. You had come to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u24	Before I come to answer the questions, I would like to comment on the subjects of public health and prevention, international context, research and evaluation, but perhaps first on the stage of the experiment. When does the experiment close? That's when the law comes into force. The law and the AMvB will enter into force simultaneously. Phase one of the experiment is the preparation phase. Then the growers can make the application. Participating municipalities will then have to consider whether the regulatory framework needs to be adapted. If the growers are designated, they must grow and ensure that sufficient cultivation is available for the coffeeshops at the start of the experimental phase. We think, we hope, that the preparatory phase can begin at the end of this year. Then we'll need about a year. It was Mrs Ploumen who asked the most pregnant: isn't it a question of sliding cheese? No, it's really a matter of careful planning. When the AMvB is finished, it still has to go to the Council of State. Then there must be a date of introduction of the law. We will be happy to determine them soon. But then, of course, there is still a lot to be done in the preparatory phase. That's one. Then there's an experimental phase. It's laid down in the law. It's four years old. I had to study for a while myself, but I wrote for myself that in the third year of the experimental period the evaluation starts and that in the fourth year there is a possibility for decision-making by the then sitting cabinet. Then it is also possible to take the decision to extend the experiment by one and a half years. That's one of those passages in the AMvB. What can you use that year and a half for? If the cabinet then decides to do so, it is to turn the experiment into a new stable situation. You can use that year and a half for new legislation. That's two. The third phase of the experiment is the phase-out phase. To put it domestically, if it doesn't work out with the experiment, it has to be completed. A period of six months has been provided for this purpose. I wanted to give this explanation because it gives us a glimpse into how the design of the experiment will proceed in the years to come as far as we are concerned, as we are now looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u25	I would like to thank the Minister for going into all these different stages. I would like to ask a question so that his answer can be further specified. My proposal would be to start preparations before the entry into force, because not only can my concerns be addressed, the concern that we are putting things off, but then the promise of the Minister can also be fulfilled, namely that this is not the case. There are a number of preparations that can start before the entry into force, as the municipalities choose, lay down the rules for the requirements that are required...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mrs Ploumen, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u27	The question is whether the Minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u28	The answer is: no, the Minister does not agree with Mrs Ploumen. First, the control frame is needed before you can start the experiment. So clip-and-ready it is. That is why the regulatory framework must be completed first: the law and the and AMvB. That is the logical time to ask growers to apply, to mention a cross street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'd like it to be very precise. So the Minister says: before the entry into force of the law, are we not going to start with preparatory actions, other than those necessary to get the law passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u30	What we're doing here, we're doing now. The word "preparation" is a bit strange, but you could also see this as preparation for the experiment. The stages in the law have indeed been appointed. The start of the experiment is the entry into force of the law and the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u31	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u32	Finally, Mr President. My proposal would be to select growers, including doing a Bibob test, and to choose municipalities. Is it true that the Minister says: we will not do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u33	No, we should. That's part of the experiment, so it's only then and not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u34	I shall leave the Minister's exposé on the law, on the transition to the AMvB, on everything that is regulated in it and on the split he makes in it. In the law as it stands, you prefer a light front of the AMvB. You say that should be settled in four weeks. Could it be a consideration for the cabinet to extend that four-week period to a period of eight weeks, given all the information you have left us with and which is still in the week? We can deal with that a little more carefully, even as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u35	No, I even thought that light front provided for a legal period of four weeks, so I thought I'd stick with that. That's gonna speed it up a little bit, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u36	I think it's technically possible, given the statutes, to turn four into eight. Then you keep a light front, but then you can do it in eight weeks. I'll take a look at the chairman, too. I think we can do that. That doesn't change the procedure, just the four-week deadline. The Lower House then has more room to think and to present all the effects of this story to our supporters. As far as we're concerned, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr President, this is more about the order of your sitting. An AO will have to be scheduled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u38	Yeah, that's really up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u39	It is true that Mrs Laan points out that we are aiming for a light front and not a heavy one. If I do a quick calculation, we are going to process the reactions to the consultation in the next few weeks. We need the month of February for that. Then we thought that at the end of March we would have a portal, a sub-committee, a ministerial council. You'll come out in April for the veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u40	I do not do this so quickly, but what I actually understood from Mrs Laan-Selschap's question is that she does not want irreversible steps until the Chamber has talked about it. Is that right? I see Mrs. Laan nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u41	But that's also part of the light front before the AMvB is established, isn't it? Here we should talk about its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u42	That's exactly what Mrs. Laan-Geselschap said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u43	All I'm saying is I don't want to go to a heavy front. I repeat that again. I want a slight veil, but with eight instead of four weeks and/or just as the President has summarised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u44	Okay. Well, the discussion about the draft AMMB on the basis of and after consultation seems to me to be the right way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u45	I am merely trying to clarify whether the Minister has already answered the question whether the experiment will stop automatically or not. He touched it, but I was wondering if...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u46	That will be my first answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u47	Oh, I'll save everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u48	First of all, a comment on public health...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u49	I don't know if you're gonna be able to save everything, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yeah, that's an experiment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr. Bruins, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u52	I thought it sounded like a commitment. Mr. Chairman. The purpose of the experiment we are discussing today is to measure the effect of the closed coffeeshop chain on public order, nuisance, safety and health care. What we obviously do not want is an increase in the use of soft drugs. I repeat it to everyone who has said something about this: the use of pot and hash is not healthy. We will really involve the focus on health risks in the experiment. We want to pursue a targeted prevention policy, which highlights the risks of using soft drugs. That is why we in the AMvB make demands on the quality of the cannabis, on the packaging, on the information, the package leaflet, the training, the warnings, the ban on advertising. That's one way. On the other hand, I believe that an information campaign for the general public can also be very useful. I think it would be a good idea to involve Trimbos in this. A conversation with the Brave Mothers sounds like a good idea. I am not sure whether they want to be involved in such a campaign in any way, but I would like to enter into that conversation. That is the one general remark. The second is about the international context. The Netherlands is well aware that the experiment we are proposing to you is at odds with UN conventions and European regulations. Therefore, the experiment is limited in the number of municipalities, limited in time and explicitly subject to monitoring. We're trying to take overseas with us. We do this through the Council working groups of the European Commission, through UN organisations such as the UNODC and the International Narcotics Control Board. We are trying to include these organisations, because it is not only in the Netherlands but also internationally that we need to take action to deal with and counter the problems of public order and security that are linked to the current coffee shop policy. We will inform other countries. We'll get them involved. This is true for neighbouring countries and for countries a little further away. Can we learn from other countries? That was a question from Mrs Bergkamp. Can we look at other countries? The main thing is, of course, that we pay attention to our own experiment, as we do, but we also look at what is happening in other countries. Of course we would like to include that, but at some point we have framed our experiment. I'm assuming that's the way we do it. With an oblique eye looking abroad, we certainly do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u53	I would like to ask a question on this point. The Minister states that there is also consultation with the countries in the Schengen area, including through the Council committees. That's what Minister Bruins is touching right now, so I'm picking it up now. Can the Minister share a little more about what exactly is being exchanged there? In the written round it emerged that it was discussed that neighbouring countries were concerned about the border effects and the concern that products grown in this experiment, abroad, would end up in their markets. Can the Minister explain a little more about what exactly is being exchanged there and what its nature is, and how they look at the rules we have agreed on European law with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u54	On the point of leaking, Mr Grapperhaus is about to enter. I think that I should come up with a method of reporting to and informing other organisations, including your Chamber, so that you can also be informed about it, which is a bit along the lines of the question that Mrs Bergkamp asked this morning about how other countries feel about it. I'm looking for a way to give you practical information about that. Take the example of Luxembourg. The experiment is still in its infancy, but in Luxembourg new policies are still in their infancy. I imagine that if I know a little bit more about it and can inform your Chamber about it, I will not do it with a report or anything, but I will write you a letter about it. So I'm gonna have to look for the right form of work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u55	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr. Chairman. Then there is a comment about research and evaluation. The experiment is intended to measure effects. When is the experiment going to be successful? Several of you have asked that. It is successful if the effects are measured properly. Mrs Bergkamp asked me most pregnantly in one of the first weeks of my ministry: when did the experiment succeed for you? Well, if it's a splash-pure experiment. The impact, the results and the results will have to be examined by the cabinet at the time, on the basis of an evaluation and intermediate reports made for this purpose. But the impact measurement must be well arranged. That's my wish for this experiment. For that, we have an independent investigation team in mind. We also have a guidance and evaluation committee. As far as guidance is concerned, I see it in front of me that this committee mainly guides the researchers as a kind of sounding board group. As an evaluation committee, it ensures that the research results can be properly monitored and can be reported with striking results. Of course, none of that is there yet. The research question has yet to be asked; we do not yet have it. If a follow-up question from your Chamber would be whether we could share with the Chamber the research set-up that we are about to launch in a tender or in a call: yes, of course we can. That at that point. Then there are a number of questions that have been asked by your Chamber. First, Mrs Buitenweg's question: is it true that the experiment stops automatically? Yes. I'm not sure that sounds like a commitment, but it does stop automatically. That's the character of an experiment: there's a head on it and there's a tail on it. So we do not want to make new legislation before the experiment ends. No, it stops on the basis of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u57	I can say that at least the experiment has been successful; I really haven't said anything until this moment!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u58	Yes. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u59	I think there's a lot of uncertainty. I read from the Minister's reply to Mrs Bergkamp's questions. She asked: isn't it true that the experiment stops automatically? And then the Minister says: in our coverage is communicated that the experiment does not stop automatically. Well, it's said it doesn't stop after four years, because we also have an AMvB. But now the Minister says: yes, it will stop. And I think that's exactly where the problem is. This law regulates that it automatically stops after four years. You can extend it, but then it stops. I do not think that we should play a hide-and-seek about this and it is precisely the desire of a number of parties to say: if it has a successful outcome, then we must prevent coffee shop owners from going back to the situation as it is today. But that requires a decision. In fact, I would like to hear from the cabinet that, after the experiment has ended, people still have to go back to the current situation, here it is agreed that there is a decision by parliament on how to proceed, that we do not automatically go back to the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u60	That's not how we agreed. That's not what the bill says. Part of that experimental phase is that an evaluation is taking place. That evaluation could come from anything. The verdict is on the then sitting cabinet. A further extension of the experimental phase may then be decided. But then there's an end. That's what this law says. There's a head on it and there's a tail on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yes, but that is different from what is being suggested and communicated. I think it's important for the Minister to say that here. There's a head on it and there's a tail on it, so it ends. I would ask the Minister to say that, before moving on to the current situation, a decision will be submitted to this Parliament, so that this Parliament can decide whether we are going back to the current situation or whether we are going to work on a proposal to change it, partly on the basis of the results of the experiment, which we do not yet know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u62	No. An evaluation will be made in the experimental phase. It is offered to the then sitting cabinet. That will judge how to proceed with the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u63	Finally. So this law actually regulates that after the end of this experiment we go back to the current situation. That's what happens automatically. I would ask the Minister whether he is prepared to ensure that a decision is taken before we move on to the current situation, so that we are already in a position to do so as soon as Tuesday I have to agree with this law that the government that is then going to be presenting a decision, so that we do not automatically fall back on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u64	I'm a little repeating. Part of the experimental phase is an evaluation. That evaluation is offered to the then sitting cabinet. The cabinet that sits then makes up the thought: how further? There is a possibility to extend that experimental phase by one and a half years. Those one and a half years can then be used to make legislation to turn the experiment into regular legislation, but we are not going to make a decision about that now. That's like-then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u65	There's still some noise on the line. I'm beginning to understand what that has to do with. The ministers say quite clearly: an experiment has a beginning and an end. Of course. We shouldn't experiment for ten years. But it has also been communicated in some way that we have to automatically go back to the current situation and that is not true. I read it again somewhere in a media statement. That is not true, because it is then the cabinet that sits, by the way, headed by the Chamber, which has its own responsibility, can say: we want to come up with new legislation. This can take place during that period, in that six months or one and a half years, so that the experiment can be converted into the normal situation. It's possible. It listens very closely. Once again, I see misreporting, also in connection with this debate, so I think it is really important to have said that we do not have to go back to the current situation automatically. You can extend the weed experiment with an AMvB for six months or one and a half years. Then it may be that there is legislation to transfer the experiment into the normal situation. Is this correct, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u66	I think I've said it three times now. I keep trying to say it the same way, so there won't be any noise on the line. There's a four-year period. In that four-year period of the experiment, there is an evaluation. At AMvB there is a possibility to extend the experiment for up to one and a half years. And there is also a six-month phasing-out provided for in this law. That one and a half years extension of the experiment can, I think, be used by the then seated cabinet to consider whether the experiment should be transformed into a stable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u67	I would like to ask one more question, Madam President, because it is really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u68	Yes. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u69	Of course, it is possible that a subsequent cabinet will decide on this. Of course, Mrs Bergkamp may put her bill to the vote. All of that can be true, but I want clarity. If we all sit on our hands now, if the Chamber keeps whistling at the ceiling, if the next government does the same and the experiment ends, then what's the situation? Do we automatically fall back on the current situation? If everyone's running the data, what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u70	I may look worse than Mrs Buitenweg in the future, but the decision is taken by the cabinet sitting then on the basis of the evaluation of the experiment. If nothing is done, there is therefore an evaluation four years after the start of the experiment. That's what the cabinet in the seat must be into.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u71	This is actually going to be a repeat of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u72	I just want there to be... Look, of course, a next cabinet can make a different decision. I just think it is important to make it clear that in this law, which we are going to vote on, nothing is settled about a decision in the future. It ends and then we automatically fall back on the current situation. I think that's how it's going to be regulated now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'm almost out of words. I said it was an experiment with a head and a tail. So there's a beginning and there's an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u74	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u75	That end can be pushed a little over time and the cabinet sitting then has to formulate an opinion on the basis of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u76	Please continue with the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u77	Let's see. There is another question from Mrs Buitenweg: when is there a successful experiment? As far as I am concerned, the purpose of the experiment is to see whether the chain can be closed and what its effects are on crime, security, public health and nuisance. If we get a good evaluation based on the effects that can then be discussed, I think it has been a successful experiment. I have made a remark about the clean sweep. I come to Mr Van Nispen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u78	Do you mind, Mr. Van Nispen, having the Minister answer your questions first? Then you will have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u79	I will sit down again, Mr President, but my question is precisely this: when will it be a success? If the Minister goes into this further in the future, you will see me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u80	Are you going to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u81	Actually, I thought I just said that in the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u82	Well, then Mr. Van Nispen will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yeah, faster than I thought. The Minister says that it is a success to measure effects on health and on the fight against crime; that is how I understood it. That sounds very logical, but it is not, because we have an experiment with a very limited scale. The Knottnerus Consultative Commission has also supported the fact that it is unrealistic to expect much better public health and that effects on total crime can be measured. That is why I explicitly asked the advisory committee to follow this. It says that the experiment can be regarded as a success if it does not in any way lead to a deterioration in these areas compared to the current situation. I therefore believe that the Minister should come up with good arguments to get this important opinion completely out of hand, because that is what the Minister seems to be doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u84	No, I choose another criterion when there is a successful experiment: if good effects are measured. With all that's in both of us, what we want with a research team and a guidance committee is to make sure that those effects are measured properly, that there will be intermediate reports and that there will be a final evaluation. The themes are known to you. For exactly how to do that, I really need that research team again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u85	I quote the Knottnerus Committee, not the least; we have just hired it to give a good opinion on this. "Access and duration of the experiment do not allow to investigate long-term health effects and effects on total crime. (...) The Committee considers the experiment to be successful if it succeeds in achieving a well-functioning closed cannabis chain without negative effects." The question is therefore quite logical: can the Minister endorse this principle, this good opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u86	Again, I am repeating myself. I have chosen another criterion for when there is a successful experiment, namely measuring the effects well. I want to stay with that. Then there is the question of Mr Van Nispen or Mr Grapperhaus and I, in our hearts, want the experiment to be a success. The answer is yes. We want that experiment to be carried out in a pure manner. You can hold us to that, and you can count on it. I have already referred to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen. I would advise against that amendment. In the amendment, Mr Van Nispen proposes to create the possibility of extending the experiment at AMvB until the temporary arrangement has been replaced by permanent legislation. In his view, this is more appropriate to the principle that a successful experiment no longer needs to be completed but can be continued. I understand that reasoning, but the cabinet does not want to anticipate the results of the experiment and its political decision-making. It follows from the amendment that the experiment will be transformed into permanent legislation. The legislative proposal provides for the possibility of extending the experiment. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u87	This, too, is a very weak support from the Minister. My amendment anticipates as much or as little of the effects of the experiment as the government's proposal. The government's proposal says we're gonna stop this unless we choose to go through with it. My proposal says: we will uphold this in a law and therefore continue to do so unless we choose not to do so. So then there's no difference in principle at the point where you're ahead of something you don't know yet. So that is not an argument for the Minister. I also found the answer to the previous question very disappointing. It was not a substantive answer. I'm actually expecting that now, and so are the following answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u88	I am not sure, but I think it was not a weak reasoning, but a clear reasoning. I still think that there is a head and a tail in the experiment, and I keep saying that. Then you should not first organise new legislation to stop the experiment. It can only be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u89	Would the Minister like to read it carefully first before he advises against an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u90	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u91	Fine. Then we give the Minister some reading time and then he can come back to his previous answer, because it just isn't there. It states that the duration of the experiment is extended until the moment when the temporary arrangement has been replaced by an indefinite scheme, unless the Minister decides, on the basis of the evaluation, not to promote that scheme. I intend to create more clarity with this. The Minister's turning it around. But there is no substantial difference between the government's proposal and my proposal. My proposal is a clarification of the law and a slightly more positive view of the situation, namely that you reverse the starting point. Now it is: you stop this, unless. We say, "You're going through with this in principle unless there's reason to quit."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u92	We do not want to anticipate the results of the experiment and then political decision-making. I shall therefore stick to the recommendation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u94	Can the coffeeshops repack products? This is one of the subjects that we will be discussing in the discussion of the AMvB. The point I want to make now is that it is of the utmost importance that during the experiment the chain is closed and leaking is not a possibility. This debate will therefore continue in the discussion of the AMvB, as I say to Mr Van Nispen. Are pre-set joints allowed during the experiment? In my view, the law does not stand in the way of preoccupied joints, because they remain within the 5 gram criterion. In any case, I hope that I have given a clear answer. I come to information on the risks of use. Should it apply to all municipalities instead of just the participating municipalities? Of course, subjects such as information extend much wider than only to the participating municipalities. Otherwise, you'd get a different picture in the control communities. I therefore believe that information on the risks of use should apply to all municipalities and not only to the municipalities participating in the experiment. I come to the possibilities of reducing tobacco consumption. I think we will come back to that in the discussion of the AMvB. It is indeed part of prevention and information. So the possibilities to reduce the use of tobacco and to take the cannabis to you in a different way, as well as the risks associated with it, will be further discussed. Mr Van Nispen asked why an open licence could not be granted to growers. I have assumed that "open" in "open permit" refers to the number of growers. The answer to the question is as follows. We start with a small-scale experiment with a closed chain and do not want to work with too many growers. That is why we do not think an open permit, as has just been explained, is a good idea. Are we allowed to grow pot at home? In this experiment, I don't really see a place for home-grown. We wanted to limit the number of growers. Home growing is also a crop. I do not think it would be wise to extend the circle of growers in this way. Mr Van Nispen also asked whether it would not be strange that the vog cannabis-related facts should be contradicted. Let me point out that there is no room for organized crime in the experiment. We are committed to excluding any form of abuse of the experiment. That is why a vog is requested. Two objectives are united: to protect vulnerable sectors from repeated criminal behavior on the one hand and the reintegration of individuals on the other. The Justis Service carries out the vog screening. Each vog application shall be weighed separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u95	You look invitingly at Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u96	It wasn't a question. Then I come to Mrs Bergkamp's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'll give him the floor. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u98	I think I'm gonna have to speak for another 15 minutes in the second term. I have to read out my entire text, because the Minister does not really give any answers to my questions in substance. And that does not even have to do with the general measure of governance, because I would understand that. Take, for example, the explanation of behavior. The Minister understands where that question came from, doesn't he? It is weird that we should say to growers with knowledge of things that, for example, have ever committed a cannabis violation, in the context of the provision of animal feed, that there is no place for them, whereas there can be very meaningful knowledge there. That doesn't have to have anything to do with organized crime. These may have been small-scale violations, but they may have been cannabis-related. I would like to have a clarification of that. I totally disagree with what the Minister says about the open licensing system. As far as home production is concerned, I am not in favour of a lot of growers at all. That's not the point. It's about people who are sick, who benefit from cannabis and for those who grow at home can be a solution. Think of the whole debate that we had here two years ago on the Bergkamp Act and the amendment that came from GroenLinks. I asked the Minister whether he would like to take a look at that and whether he would do justice to this justified proposal. I would appreciate it if the Minister could come back to that in good faith, perhaps not immediately but later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u99	I would have thought that Mr Van Nispen's home-grown question was on a different subject. I would like to come back to the question he has just raised. I don't know if I'm going to do that now or in a later letter, because I need to think about it. I understand your question, but I need to be specific. That's what I want to look at. Then the dog. The purpose of a vog screening is to ensure the integrity of the experiment without precluding people. That's obvious. We cannot indicate in advance what precise facts and circumstances give rise to serious danger; this is context-dependent. That's what I can say about it now and no more than that. I haven't thought about it yet, but so far my thoughts have come. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Bergkamp's questions. She's asked a lot of questions. One of them was how to prevent a waterbed effect and create a distorted image in the experiment. I think that's a good question. We think we can solve that by working with control communities. But how exactly and who exactly? I need the knowledge of the research team and the guidance committee for that. In my original mind, if there were ten municipalities participating in the experiment, you would also select ten control communities, but I have to admit that this has been said too quickly. It might well be the case that the researchers say that you need more in the control group or that they can only be adjacent municipalities or not. I can't answer that question yet, but so far thought has progressed. I have talked about the effects, as have international developments. Involving users' experiences in measuring the progress and effects of the experiment seems to me to be a good idea. I think we should pay attention to that; that's what we're going to do. Then the monitoring of the experiment. We haven't quite figured that out yet. The municipality is the supervisor on the sale in the coffee shop, but on how we do that on the production, so for example on the quality of the cultivation and the packaging, we are still puzzled. That must be clear when I put the AMvB here as a result of the consultation. For the production I'm not quite out yet. For the sale in the coffeeshop it is the municipality. For administration and finance, I think there's a role for the IRS. We are also considering whether we can put the three supervisors together in a form of consultation, so that we can understand the secrecy of the chain. That's about it. Then the selection requirements for growers. Criteria are also laid down for this. You asked for a cultivation plan. That must indeed be delivered. This must show how the grower works and that this is done in a careful way. The selection requirements for producers are thus also seen in the way the producers work. It's gonna be worked out and it's gonna be back here. Can coffee shops impose requirements on growers when it comes to packaging? I am strongly in favour of uniform packaging requirements. If there's any desire to live at coffeeshops at this point, I'd be happy to look for an opportunity to take them with me. So can coffeeshops make demands on growers? Well, I think those demands should come from us, but I'd like to use the input from the coffee shop owners. I think the bottomline is that it has to be uniform requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u100	We have always chosen to make it look as horrible as possible in the case of cigarettes. Can I therefore pay attention to the fact that it should not be an enthusiastic, loving package to stimulate people to use? Is that element being taken, too? Of course there is talk with the people who offer it. Their input is important. But I'd like to see this included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u101	You're absolutely right about that. I think we should learn from the preparation of the prevention plan. Herewith plays the plain packaging through my head. We need to see how we can do that. Of course, too frivolous is absolutely not the intention. A recruiting effect: not. Advertising: not. Mr President, on this point. Is flexibility possible for growers and coffee shops when it comes to supply? I really can't give you the beginning of an answer. I really have to wait until we talk about the draft AMM. Are pre-wrapped joints allowed? That's the case. Why have ten authorisations for cultivation been proposed within the experiment? Now in the AMvB: a maximum of ten. Of course, we also get reactions from all sides. I'll just hold on to what's in the AMvB for a while, but let's also think about it for a little while for the follow-up steps. That is a number of questions from Mrs Bergkamp, President. I realize I didn't answer them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u102	That is true, but the Minister has answered a number of important questions and in April we will have a chance to go further down the road. But I also think it is important for us to know what questions we have. Just one more in-depth question about growing. Now we don't know what happens when it comes to getting good seeds. Growing tomatoes is different from growing cannabis. The question is for a moment, looking at the preparation phase and the quality of growing: how does one get the seeds of the plant to eventually get good cannabis? It sounds like a very detailed question, but in the end it is of value, because you do want to sell cannabis that works for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u103	Yes, I'd like to include this subject in the AMvB. Those seeds are legal to sell, if I understand correctly. It is not just about the seeds, but often also about small plants or cuttings, which are needed. I'm gonna have to break my head about that. I know that you asked this question, and that question is not gone, but I really need a moment to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u104	I can imagine. The Minister has indicated that as a selection requirement the breeding plan is carefully looked at, because it is also about how to clone that mother plant. I assume the Minister will explain again whether that will be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u105	That is certainly the case. Then there are a number of questions from Mrs Van Toorenburg on how to focus on prevention. As I said in the introduction, this is an incredibly important subject. The AHOJG tolerance criteria offered less possibilities than I see under the regime of the experiment. So I see an advantage in that. In addition, I believe that a generous information campaign will work here. In doing so, I will involve the Trimbos and also engage with the Brave Mothers. Mr Grapperhaus is also having this discussion on the side of Justice and Security. I want to see if the Brave Mothers have the willingness to play a role on the prevention side. I have already discussed the preparatory phase. Storage and transport from grower to coffee shop must be done safely. There is a whole series of demands we will make. For example, producers should impose requirements on human rights authorisation: who is allowed to enter what area, how do you check it and with what protocols? What about security and surveillance, physical measures such as fences and vaults, transport and the demands you make on them? Employees must meet requirements of reliability and competence. There's still a whole string of subjects behind it. I take that very seriously. That is the answer to Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions, because some of them have already been answered by previous speakers. Then there is one more question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u106	I had given explicit attention to intellectually restricted people. Can the Minister take that with him for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u107	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u108	The people with disabilities, that particularly vulnerable group. Trimbos is just one group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u109	I would have liked to have said that to Mrs Van der Graaf. Yeah, we need to pay attention to that. I can see that very well. For young people and mentally restricted people, we must organise this properly. I will go into this in more detail about the plan for prevention or communication and information. I need to get the help of experts here, like Pharos-like parties. Mrs Ploumen asked another question, which I may have answered by now: is it a little too long to wait for the preparatory stage? That is not the case. You can monitor with us that we want to keep that progress. Mrs Van der Graaf asked a sort of question of control, namely whether I can confirm that it is impossible for an irreversible situation to exist. I have already given an affirmative answer to this earlier this afternoon, namely that the experiment is, by definition, limited in time and therefore finite. Mrs Van der Graaf also called for the prevention of the normalisation of drug use. That is what I have started; this attention to prevention will be broad. The question is whether I am prepared to investigate a nationwide fund on cannabis sales, in line with the advice of the Knottnerus Committee. If I have understood correctly, this is about setting up a kind of fund for national prevention studies. It's a research question. I look at all kinds of hooks and eyes, but if it is a research question that Mrs Van der Graaf has asked, then I would also like to answer it in the affirmative. Then I come to Mrs Van der Graaf's question about involving the experiences in Canada, for example with regard to the awareness campaign. I'd like to take that into account when we launch that campaign. Then there is the international question: do you think that all can and can be done within the international framework? No, I can see that tension very well, but I've answered it before. Mrs Laan asked whether the control municipalities should be adjacent municipalities. In my head, it's gonna be like this, but I'm gonna have to ask out to the investigation team later. They may say that this does not have to be done, but for the time being this is still the idea because I can imagine that this way you limit regional differences between participating and control municipalities. Finally, a single question from Mr Bishop. How does this plan relate to the prevention agreement? Of course, our experiment is much wider. We not only want to measure effects on health care; we think that is very important and we all say that here and so do I, but we also want to look at the other side: public order, security and nuisance. We want to know the effects from both sides. We have already discussed the joint treatment of AMvB and bill. The selection of growers will be further discussed. Mr Bishop suggested that an opposite experiment should be set up. That is not what was chosen in the coalition agreement. We think one experiment is complex enough and we would like to leave it at that. We have already discussed the success of the experiment and the international side of the matter. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u110	I think a question has not been answered and it is about the number of municipalities. The Minister has said that it is important for him that there is a purely impeccable experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u111	It's splashy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u112	Okay, splash clean. There are all kinds of scientific committees and people working to make it so splashy and yet the law already states that ten municipalities are involved. And that would collide with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u113	I have to interrupt you, because isn't that a question to the Minister of Justice and Security? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u114	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u115	Then the Minister of Justice and Security will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u116	But can I ask another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u117	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u118	That is the question of whether it is possible for legal growers to also supply coffee shops in other municipalities that are willing to comply with all kinds of conditions and wish to be able to offer legal cultivation, which does not count in the experiment but can be enjoyed by the fact that they do not need to be involved in illegal cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u119	There are many objections to this, but I would like to give you a more precise answer in the discussion of the draft AMM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mrs Bergkamp, do you have a question that has not been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yes, also in connection with the interruption debate between Mrs Buitenweg and the Minister. Since there was a little confusion about the decision, I would like to make that quite clear. I have just looked at the explanatory memorandum as part of the law. The following is quite clearly stated in this document. The evaluation will therefore take place within the experimental phase, so that further decision-making on the basis of this evaluation can take place before the phase-out phase begins. So just to put it bluntly: decision-making and then phasing it out. Isn't that right? I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u122	That's very true. Aye aye, Captain! That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u123	Can I ask you one more question? And then I'm really quiet again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u124	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u125	We just talked about it, because we're really trying to get out of here. I see that in Article 12. It is also said that the cabinet will send a report. It is a question of 'and the consequences I wish to draw upon them'. If I may interpret it in such a way that it is said "and the consequences I wish to add to it and whatever this means for the phasing out', then I am already a little pacified. Because that means we'll make it clear before the end what it means for the termination of the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u126	I am a huge supporter of pacification, but I really think it is written down clearly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr. Chairman. It is good to say that today we are talking about a legislative proposal on the main lines. So it's not about the AMvB yet. And then it comes: it's a bill on the main lines of an experiment with a closed coffee shop chain. And that must always have a limited duration according to the instructions for experimental regulation. I say this very strongly, because in my answers it will come back that this automatically entails a number of restrictions which are part of the definition of that definition. When I say that, I would also like to be the first to express my gratitude, like my colleague Mr Bruins, to the committee led by Professor André Knottnerus, who has really produced an opinion at a speedy and speedy pace, so that we, as ministers, are still able to come up with this at the pace that has been agreed. I am therefore addressing Mrs Ploumen a little bit, because she is always allowed to monitor this drive with us. We are doing this seriously, and it is also part of this that we must ensure that we, together with your Chamber, get through it at a speedy pace. That is why we have said: now the main lines, the posture, that is the law, and we will come to you with the AMvB as soon as possible. That is what we do when we hear from everyone, from all the interested parties, but also from all the parties that are going to play a role, such as prosecutors and police, when I speak for myself, which is the most sensible way of thinking. It's supposed to be. Again, I would like to draw attention to those regulatory guidelines. It states that such an experimental law must set out the main points of the bill and that it must then be worked out in the AMvB as best as possible. That's the process we're working on right now. Mr. Chairman. This is an experiment which, as far as I am concerned, also strengthens my own approach to drug crime. The policy of tolerance as it has grown may have had its value in society in the past, but it has also led to an unclear paradox in which a large illegal industry has flourished. And for the people who watch: that is the paradox that you have forbidden the production but that you tolerate that in shops, coffee shops, cannabis is bought and then used. There's some kind of paradox. I would like to work to resolve this paradox for our society from my role as Minister of Justice and Security. That means we're going to start small-scale experiments to see if it's possible to decriminalize the coffee shops by providing them with quality-controlled cannabis. Next, it is a question of making the right balance between public health, public order and security. I would like to refer to what Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union has said very well. On the basis of an evaluation of independently measured results of the experiment, a future cabinet will make choices for the subsequent cannabis policy. It has hardly been said today, but I would like to point out that there is a monitoring and evaluation committee which is going to supervise this in a very careful, sound and scientifically sound manner. That's much better than leaving something like that to me as a minister. It's a good thing it happens that way. Mr. Chairman. Before I reply, I would like to say that we have both spoken with many parties in the preparation. Also with the already mentioned Brave Mothers. The concern that exists in this respect is at least a point which I am very concerned about. That's what we've been talking about. I have listened carefully and I hope that we will be able to address their concerns in the future. I come now to the questions, Mr President, and I am going through them as quickly as I can. Can the experiment be a success? Yes, I think I have already indicated that sufficiently through you, Mr President, to Mr Van Nispen. We're really gonna put this together together and hopefully with your Chamber of Representatives. Then I immediately come to the difficult point of the number of participating municipalities. Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen asked a number of questions about this. Mr Van Nispen has also tabled an amendment on this. I'll deal with it as follows. Mr Van Nispen's amendment says: no ceiling for the number of municipalities. In the coalition agreement, six to ten municipalities were agreed to participate for a reason. If you add the control municipalities, you will be 12% to 20% of the municipalities in the Netherlands that have coffeeshops. It seems to me that you already have a very representative part of the participating municipalities and control municipalities, at least in the experiment. Why stick to the number, despite the respected advice of the Knottnerus Committee for more municipalities? In addition to methodological considerations, we must also take account of other points. This is first and foremost the tension with international and European law, where an experiment is limited in duration and scope. It must also be internationally accountable. Of course, it also has to do with the signals we have received from the neighbouring countries: the concerns that Mr Bruins has already shared with you. An important point is also the capacity to be used by interested parties for monitoring. That also plays a part in the consideration. This also applies to the significant financial consequences of the extension of the experiment. Apart from the municipalities that participate, there are the control municipalities, but before I go into that, perhaps I should leave Mr Van Nispen to speak through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u129	Maybe you should finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u130	What is the role of these control municipalities? There was a fair question from Mrs Laan-Geselschap. The Advisory Committee recommended that, in order to measure the effects seriously, changes in municipalities where intervention is and is not applied should be compared. It is said that it is necessary to ensure that the group of intervention municipalities, i.e. the municipalities that will participate, is as comparable as possible to the group of control municipalities. What exactly is going to happen is precisely up to this independent monitoring and evaluation committee. We should not get in the way of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u131	And now Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u132	I did not say that there must necessarily be more than ten municipalities involved. I have quoted the advisory committee's experiment on the coffeeshop chain, the Knottnerus Committee, which says: you cannot know in advance how many municipalities must be in order to make meaningful statements and to measure the effects properly. That can only be determined later. Maybe seven will do you good, maybe eight, maybe nine. Maybe it should be 11, too. You just don't know that yet. That is why I did not say: there must be more than ten. I have said that it seems very unwise to adopt a law on Tuesday, when we vote on the law, stating that it should never be more than ten. That's actually all I've said. If we remove that ceiling, the Minister may still believe that we are done with nine municipalities. I am fine with that, but I cannot say that at the moment and neither can the Knottnerus Advisory Committee. So where does the Minister get the wisdom to say that there should never be more than ten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u133	That's the wisdom I get from my legal background. I'm sure that's what it's all about. For I have just referred to international conventions and other international obligations that we have. This means that, just as we are about to set up this experiment, on a number of basic points, we must give a very clear assurance that this is going to be the extent of our experiment. I have justified why it has become this number of municipalities, times two if you count the control municipalities. This cabinet believes, even after consultation of the Council of State and the Knottnerus Committee, that it can certainly be a useful experiment in itself. As a cabinet, we realize that we must set up this experiment as best we can, because it must be a successful experiment with a closed coffee shop chain. And that means that you also have to turn more buttons when completing that experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u134	If the Minister really wants me to believe that he wants to make this a great success, it would be appropriate for the Minister to listen to the experts who are involved, and not to say all this now, even though we don't even know which municipalities are going to sign up, how diverse these municipalities are, how geographically positioned they are, how many inhabitants they have. These are all aspects where you need a certain variation. So I don't know if it should be 11 or nine or much more or much less. I don't know yet, but the Minister doesn't know that either. Then the Minister can say very firmly that he knows that because of his legal background or because of the international situation, but that is, of course, nonsense. The Knottnerus Consultative Commission has really thought about that. So let's not include the number in the law. Maybe there's a suggestion that it only has to be nine or eight. Fine, we'll see, but you can't rule it out already. Otherwise you put a brake on the experiment and that strengthens my suspicion that it wouldn't come out so bad if we didn't do everything we can to make this a great success. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u135	I'm throwing off the idea that I'd be making some bullshit out of this place today. I think that's an incorrect term, either way. Anyway, it's very clear I'm going to repeat myself, but that seems to be necessary today anyway, six to ten. There's quite a margin in that. If you multiply that times two, you get 12 to 20. There's a much bigger margin in that. Let me just say this. Mr Bruins and I bring this in after listening to what the experts have said about it and after we have also assessed our scope under international conventions and the international political playing field vis-à-vis the countries around us. It then comes to the conclusion that we can do a responsible experiment with each other in this way. Perhaps it is not an experiment that fully meets the ideal image of one or the other, but we have to take responsibility, and I can only see that we take this seriously by weighing it up properly at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u136	Where does international law say you'd be against that if you chose 11 municipalities? The Minister can convince me by indicating this here now and not just by saying that. But then I want to know why nine could and eleven couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u137	I have said that there is a balance between the tension with international and European law in terms of its duration and scope, and that in that respect you must set up your experiment within certain limits. This cabinet has concluded that at a margin of six to ten there is an internationally enforceable margin, which also... I have said that, but then I will repeat myself. There are also considerations of the use of extra enforcement and so on, because suddenly you have to run policy X with that group of municipalities while you run policy Y with a large number of other municipalities, not to mention the municipalities where there is no coffee shop at all. In short, there is a decent enforcement task for the judicial services. In general, this is a trade-off which leads to the number of six to ten. There is not just one hundred percent "this would be the ideal number" as the SP says, because the SP has given too little thought to the other consequences. Yeah, I can't help it, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u138	Yeah, that's asking for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u139	Now the minister can go you-bake, but this just doesn't make any sense at all. I have put on the table a proposal which simply removes a rule from the law. The Minister says: I'm sure there can never be more than ten. I'm just suggesting that we say that I don't think that's a good idea. Let's decide that at a later date. Now the Minister can start blaming me for not thinking about all kinds of things and for knowing exactly how many municipalities they should be. I have just said here every time: I do not know how many municipalities it must be; let us wait and see the experts' advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u140	I think this is enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u141	I am very sorry that the Minister thinks he should take me down like this, which of course is not necessary. I didn't say I know exactly how many municipalities they are. I am very sorry about this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u142	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u143	Yes, Mr. Van Nispen made that. I also...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u144	Mrs Ploumen also wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u145	At the same point. The Minister and also Minister Bruins have repeatedly stated that it is important to involve experts, not only in the Knottnerus Committee but also afterwards. Although I am a fan of Mr Van Nispen's amendment, I am also sensitive to the argument of enforcement. But I am absolutely not convinced why we should now include a maximum number in the law. When a committee of experts looks at how we are going to shape the experiment, there are experts who are going to be involved in enforcement; that is what I am assuming. Then there are experts who say: boy, maybe you should consider this combination of municipalities and not this one. It seems to me that Van Nispen's amendment gives the Cabinet maximum freedom to shape the number. There could be fewer of them. I mean, I can't judge that. Maybe there'll be more. So take that offer of freedom, is my appeal to the minister. This can also help the cabinet design the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u146	Back to the beginning. In the coalition agreement it was agreed: six to ten municipalities. In doing so, a number of considerations have been made very clearly which relate to the fact that the enforcement technique you refer to rightly calls that point to be manageable and not to lead to all kinds of additional financial consequences. The complicated thing about that is that we want this experiment. I would like to make that clear once again. We need to do it as well as possible so that we can say later that we have a result from which we can draw conclusions. Then you will find that you have to set it up in such a way that within the framework of the fact that cannabis may still not be produced outside this closed coffeeshop system and is still legally prohibited, you have to get started, keep it clear and still have to give enough room for conclusion. We have reached the six to ten in the coalition agreement. There is already a certain wide margin in that. If you see that twelve to twenty municipalities will be involved, including in control municipalities, then that is an eighth to one fifth of the total number of municipalities with coffeeshops. The points that I have just mentioned, the enforcement but also the limitation, which is viewed internationally with argus eyes, ensure that you have to look at all kinds of experimental legislation within certain frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u147	I have two more points, Mr President, if you don't mind. One: what was agreed in the coalition agreement seems to me to be more motivated by political considerations. It's possible. That's legitimate. But then experts are consulted in the treatment of the law and in the way in which the cabinet flies it. I would therefore like to stick to the recommendation of the Knottnerus Committee, which says: give that final judgment out of your hands soon, because that depends, of course, on my second point, of the type of municipality that signs up. The Minister can't say anything about that now. I can't blame him for that either, because that's not clear yet. We don't know that either. For me, that would be an additional argument to ask the cabinet and the minister to reconsider the opinion on the amendment, because that is not only the position of the SP and a number of parties in the Chamber but also, above all, because it will give the cabinet maximum room to listen to the opinions of the experts who are going to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u148	I have just said this in response to Mr Van Nispen. Why is this already in the law? Because we have to make clear the extent of our experiment, both the duration and the number of municipalities. That is the task, I would almost say: the obligation we have not to be attacked from the outside with the question: what exactly are you doing? We have listened carefully to what has been said about it by experts and we hear and read that the choice for six to ten municipalities is still justified in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u149	This is gonna be a repeat, and I don't have the impression that you two are getting together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u150	Finally, I said it's a responsible choice. I just wanted to make that clear. Is there enough interest in municipalities? The mayors state that they are in favour of this experiment. I fully understand that mayors and coffee shops are currently moving on the basis that the demands of the experiment would be met here and there. I myself have been on the road at the VNG on behalf of the two of us in recent months. I have spoken about how this can be best designed. I have also stressed that there will be some room for manoeuvre in the AMvB on a number of points. This is not the case in other respects. At least 40 municipalities have informally reported at this time who are interested in participating in this experiment. I am confident that some of the municipalities that have said at first that they are not going to get warmed up will turn to us, if they really are going to get their hands and feet, or perhaps we will come to them, and we will come to each other. In any case, we are going to do our best to make those churches from Saul to Paul. Then the question is, how can the G-4 participate? Mrs Ploumen asked: can you still be flexible in that? That's why I said at the beginning that it's an experiment with a closed coffee shop chain. It's one uniform experiment. This means that we also have to submit it to large municipalities. By the way, I have specifically said to the mayors of some of the G-4: listen, I would like to talk to you about this in order to see where your problems lie and how we can solve them within the conditions. I still have a firm expectation that we will have to go further in this respect. We have to do our best to do that. And then your Chamber may ask me later: explain how you really did your best to... I'm really working on that. Can a municipality register without a coffee shop? Yes. That is possible, but then the municipality must prove that it is realistic, that the coffee shops are in operation at the time of the start of the experiment and that they really have the infrastructure to be able to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u151	After the second sentence of the Minister's speech, it is even easier to ask my question. Can a municipality be realistic? How realistic is it that these four big cities, the G-4, actually get all the coffee shops in their congregation? That is one of the demands of the law that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u152	During the discussion of the AMvB we will of course come back to exactly how you are going to shape that. During the preparatory phase, Mr Bruins and I are at least going to have to deal with the coffeeshops in their municipality, and for those coffeeshops it will have to be a question of 'we are going to participate, or else we will stop doing coffeeshops'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u153	I would like to hear in your words that my answer is answered evasively or in the negative, that you might want to set different rules for the G-4 than we have now established. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u154	No, I want to assure you that with exactly the same briefcase with conditions and fine business, I'm going out with all the mayors. But I have noticed in my talks with the VNG that that is no one's evil; that is how this happens at times, that there were initially misunderstandings and things had to be clarified. I say this very carefully, but in the first signs of the consultation we see that there is a more positive mood now than in the first letters. That has to do with making people very clear what all the footprints and consequences are. I'm not gonna join the G-4 with another briefcase of stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u156	Is there an emergency button for when things get out of hand in a community? Yeah, it's in the briefcase, too. First of all, we assume that this instrument does not have to be used, but, to be safe, an emergency braking system is provided for the exceptional case that the situation in a municipality is out of control. Of course, that will have to come from the mayor, because he is best informed. By means of an immediate strike the experiment can then be terminated in that municipality. We also discussed local customization with the municipalities and the VNG. Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Ploumen asked. But that really goes within the limits of how we finally meet the system, also within the AMvB. When determining the space for local customization, as much as possible is connected to the current practice. This means that the mayor can give further details on several aspects. That doesn't mean that mayors can deviate from what we're going to lay down in the law, especially in the AMvB. That is why the discussion of the AMvB is so important. With regard to the resident criterion, I would like to say straight away that the government considers enforcement in the municipalities at the border to be necessary. It is important that the experiment does not lead to an increase in residents of the surrounding countries. I do not know whether I should go into any further details.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u157	I think it is very good that the Minister explained this a little further, because the past experience, the experience gained at the time of the weed pass, was very negative. At that time, we saw an increase in street trade and serious nuisance. Now that we are discussing this again in this debate, I think it would be very good to look back at those experiences from the past...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u158	Not too extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u159	... and I think it is very good to say that we want local customization on something as important as the resident criterion. I believe that a minister who is also meant for our security should prevent the nuisance and the street trade from increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yes, just to be clear: in the other participating municipalities, the resident criterion is not made mandatory. So that's where the customization is possible. In the border municipalities we say it very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u161	Then the question is, why there? Why can it not be left to the local wisdom of the professionals, the directors there in consultation with the local triangle, whether it is wise or not, given all the circumstances, including the estimation of street trade and nuisance, and past experiences? Why does the Minister have the wisdom and leave it to our local directors to decide whether it is wise to maintain the resident criterion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u162	Because they're border municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u163	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u164	I really object to this. This is yet another time that the Minister does not actually answer the question. The fact that they are border municipalities is not an answer to the question of why there should be mandatory maintenance of the resident criterion in border municipalities and not in other municipalities. I stand here for as long as the Minister gives a good argument as to why the criterion of residence must be maintained in border municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u165	Because border municipalities simply have much more influx from other countries, such as Belgium and Germany, as was also discussed in Mr Bruins' term. That's a fact. By the way, that is a different kind of influx from the people who, for example, come to my own hometown from very different countries in Europe or even beyond, Amsterdam. That's a completely different effect. Here we are really talking about direct nuisance caused by people from 10 kilometres across the border. That's why. I didn't mean any harm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u166	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u167	That is indeed the difference between a border municipality and a place like Amsterdam. A border municipality is close to the border and people come to Amsterdam by plane. That's not an answer to my question, is it? I'm from Breda. I know exactly what happened then with this serious nuisance and the increase in street trade after entering the weed pass. My question to the Minister was what was the decisive argument to say to border municipalities that the criterion of residence must be maintained and why we should not leave it to local administrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u168	I'll try to put it this way that it might sound something else. For example, a border municipality is located 10 kilometres from the border and suffers from direct border traffic. This has been proven in practice in the past. If there are differences in petrol prices, you can also see that there is a lot of influx from municipalities in one country or another. This is a different kind of trek than the more touristy influx that cities like Amsterdam or Utrecht have of people who come all the way from abroad. Then you're on your way by car or plane...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u169	I'm gonna step in a little bit anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u170	Can I just say one last sentence about it, which I hope will meet Mr Van Nispen a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u171	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u172	Look, we are going to look at the letter we received from the coffeeshop communities in Limburg in the near future, but I do not want to create illusions or offer him dead sparrows through you. At least we are going to look at the concerns they have about whether it always works equally well. The starting point is as it has just been formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u173	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop's question was whether I can confirm that the current tolerance criteria continue to apply in the participating municipalities. That's right. The conditions imposed on the sale are largely in line with the current conditions. No poster ring, so no commercials or anything. No hard drugs, so no resources on list I of the Opium Act. Then it's clear. No trouble. This means parking nuisance, but of course also noise, pollution and so on. No sales to young people and no access for young people to the coffee shop. Sale of up to 5 grams per transaction. And no sale of alcohol. The maximum commercial condition is different from the present condition, since it is possible to apply a commercial condition based on the average weekly stock. The coffee shop may therefore only sell hemp or hashish from the designated growers; let that be clear. There are further demands on information, prevention and so on, but these are addressed in more detail in the AMvB. Mr Bisschop asked about infringements by participating coffeeshops and growers. This is maintained primarily by administrative law. The mayor can impose an administrative constraint. Farmers are also burdened under administrative control, and the regulator has the possibility to impose an administrative penalty. In extreme cases, criminal enforcement may also be involved. We are really going to make further arrangements with the Public Prosecutor (Public Ministry), the police and supervisors. Mrs Laan-Geselschap's question was whether the power to close a coffee shop should remain with the mayor, given the risk of a threat. Let me say first of all that I take these threat cases very seriously and that it is indeed a priority to reduce and tackle the crime involved in any way. But in determining local powers, we are therefore joining in on this, as I have just said, with the current practice. That also means that the power of closure lies with the mayor. I would like to add that I am talking to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the municipalities in order to highlight all the risks involved in the experiment. This includes the risk of threats and harassment of mayors. I believe that we all agree that it is fundamental in our rule of law that this should go far from this experiment. Then I also have a hook for a number of questions about crime. Some members have asked about safety. A number of safeguards are built into the design of the experiment to ensure a safe experiment. This includes screening producers and requiring the use of secure transport. Police and Public Prosecutor's Office will be involved in all phases of the establishment of the experiment. They have of course also advised on the bill, and are now also advising on the AMvB. Local and national security partners and monitoring organisations are always involved in their further development. In addition, the local triangle will and will remain responsible for public order and security in the participating municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u175	There was something you wanted to say. Just finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u176	No, I come to Mrs Van der Graaf's next question about the leaking of drugs to non-participating municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u177	Then I'll go to Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u178	I think it is appropriate here to come back to the vog and its requirements for a moment, following what my colleague Mr Van Nispen has already asked Minister Bruins to do. For example, in 2014, the criminal lawman in Groningen declared a number of growers guilty, but without imposing the penalty, because they were simply decent growers for the rest, but with illegal cultivation. Are those people who could still be eligible? Or is it by definition excluded that, when you have been declared guilty of illegal cultivation, you can become another legal grower here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u179	Then I am going to end up in the Bruins area, but I understand that it is still being looked at exactly how that vog will be handled, and that will also be taken into account when we talk about the AMvB. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Graaf asked about that leaking abroad and non-participating municipalities. It's really being monitored. It's a closed chain. That is the only way to give this experiment a successful soil in any case. We're still talking about how that surveillance works. We are looking in particular at what information is needed from the grower and the coffee shop holders in order to keep an eye on this secrecy, to keep an eye on it. It'll come back to the AMvB. Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Laan-Geselschap asked me if I wanted to ensure that the fight against drug crime remains unabated. My full answer to that is yes. I have also begun to say that I see this experiment within the whole of my approach to drug crime. I think you've heard me say more often than not that I'm not going to repeat here that tackling the undermining crime is a real priority for me personally. That is the crime that leads, above all, to these threatened mayors, to the decaying and ruining of the atmosphere and security in neighbourhoods. Large revenues are also generated through criminal activities. I'm gonna bet on fighting that. Mr Bishop also asked me to say something about the risks to public order. We are really going to take a number of measures in the AMvB to keep a close eye on security and public order. I repeat, I am talking about that. That is what I am, by the way, and that name has not yet been mentioned, with the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, in order to give a precise picture of where exactly the risks might arise here. I have already mentioned a number of things, such as the security of transport and the maximum hand supply. I will not go into that further for the sake of time. Mr Bishop asked about the role of the police. The police in our country are simply responsible for detecting criminal offences and maintaining public order. With that task, the police will continue around this experiment. This means that at least I have every right to rule out the possibility that crime will interfere with this experiment as well. Minister Bruins said the same thing. We are also taking this into account in the screening that is going to be carried out in the authorisation procedure for producers. We will come back to that in more detail, I think. I don't know if we really need to talk about that for a long time now. I've got a few more things. Mrs Buitenweg has asked whether we supply coffee shops in non-participating municipalities. No, you can't. It is a small experiment in six to ten municipalities, times two is twelve to twenty with the control municipalities involved. It's a closed chain. Otherwise, we really can't let it be successful in the sense that you can draw conclusions from it. It is crucial that growers deliver only to participating coffeeshops and that the participating coffeeshops only sell cannabis from the selected growers. There should be no misunderstanding about that either. Mrs Bergkamp wondered whether the coffee shops could keep supplies in other places. We are not going to allow this in the experiment, because otherwise the monitoring of stocks really cannot be carried out adequately. The closure of the chain cannot then be properly guaranteed. There is a danger that stocks will not be adequately secured. That gives all kinds of enforcement issues on the one hand, but that makes you say in three or four years' time: what about our experiment? The same applies to Mrs Buitenweg's point, if you could make it possible to supply non-participating coffee shops in other municipalities. That clouds the conclusions. I have already answered the question of how to deal with non-sustainable coffeeshops when replying to Mrs Laan's questions. In the AMvB we will come back to that. If a coffee shop doesn't follow the rules, then the mayor's command comes into sight. The same applies to participation in the experiment. Then there was Mrs Bergkamp's question as to whether there is an exit plan for coffee shops that do not want to participate. No, in the sense that in a participating municipality all coffeeshops must participate. For a coffee shop there is therefore no possibility to say: we do some sort of opt-out and we go here, in the municipality of Boerenkool-Stronkeradeel or wherever, just do our own thing. The security of storage comes in an AMvB. That is what we are going to talk about. Then, of course, there's the money. How do the municipalities get the money? Well, the experiment is reserved for 2 million a year in the coalition agreement. Depending on the size of the experiment, a smaller or larger part of the monitoring of the experiment and the monitoring and evaluation of the experiment can be financed. Of course, there is some monitoring that is already in place. So we don't have to make new things up for that. How much capacity and resources are needed, we can't really determine until we know who's definitely going to participate. A very important question was asked by Mr Van Nispen: how are you going to give the cannabis sector the opportunity to go to banks? Otherwise, we already know where that money might come from; well, we don't know that, but then we can worry about that. We have brought this subject to the attention of the Ministry of Finance, which is not so difficult to deal with, but also of the Dutch Association of Banks. The Dutch Association of Banks has launched a project to find a solution to this issue, let us be clear about it. Mr President, I can tell you that I have run out of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u181	I would like to ask the Minister another question. Actually, I asked Minister Bruins the same question earlier, but I am now putting it to the Minister of Justice. That question is about the European legal side of the matter, because in the Schengen agreement we agreed that we would prevent both administrative and criminal sales and the supply of narcotic drugs. That is a European legal agreement. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice in this context how consultation with the European countries, the Schengen partners, is going on, particularly on this point. Can the Minister give the Chamber a little more insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u182	Yeah, I can give you some insight into that. Actually, I had an informal conversation with colleagues in the spring of 2018 to see if there would still be major objections if we were to pour this into the form of a temporary experimental law. An experimental law is always temporary with a clear scope. I cannot tell you that there has been a great deal of enthusiasm for this, but so far there have been no blockades in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u183	A further clarification: does "no blockades" mean that the Minister has no reason at this time to think that Member States want to appeal to the Netherlands for an infringement of that agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u184	Well, that chord leaves some limited space in the end. We are indeed talking about experimental situations, not in all areas; let us be clear about that. To reply immediately, I have no reason at this time to believe that one of the other Schengen States will set up a legal or treaty blockade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u185	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. Are the MPs ready? I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Are we ready? It's quite a bone. So I don't know if I'm ready, but we're just getting started. One thing that has been very important in the discussion is the phasing-out. In Mr Knottnerus' report or the committee's report, I read clearly that we are going back to the current situation at the end. In this debate it became clear that this is not necessarily the case. Article 12 of the law states that an evaluation report will be drawn up at the end of the experiment and that the cabinet will then be able to take a position. We're also working on legal history here, also to make it clear where we're going. Can I interpret it in such a way that in the cabinet position and in the report sent to the States-General, in addition to the experience of the experiment, at least what the consequences are for a possible phasing-out? The intention is then that decision-making on how to proceed will be completed before the phase-out is finally implemented. If I may read Article 12 in such a way that it is the intention that decision-making should be completed before we go down, that would be worth something to me. Madam President. I now come to that number of ten municipalities. I believe that there is a contradiction between the desire to create pure scientific policy and then to establish in advance that they are a maximum of ten municipalities. There is also no mention of the size of these municipalities, the geographical location or the number of coffee shops there. So I do not see any scientific justification for that number of ten. I understand that, too, because this has all been part of the negotiations on the government agreement. I think it is important to keep some openness, just when, as the ministers say, you want a purely scientific experiment. In this respect, my group supports Mr Van Nispen's amendment. I ask the ministers to give themselves some space, but at least also to the Scientific Guidance Committee. I get to the big bang, the clean sweep. It has not been discussed here, because it is part of the general measure of governance. But we also know that it can have an impact on the degree of success of the experiment. I think it was Mrs Van Tongeren who made the comparison with changing the entire range of a clothing store in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u187	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u188	No, it was Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u189	Oh, Mrs. Bergkamp. At least not Mrs. Van Tongeren. It's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u190	I miss it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u191	I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u192	I really miss it, especially on this subject! Mr Van Nispen reminded me of all her efforts. And I thought, "Where's Liesbeth when you need her?" But the example of the fashion shop shows how important it is that there is not also a big change of assortment at once. Although the ministers did not discuss it, I do have a motion on this. I submit these together with colleagues Ploumen and Van Nispen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law provides for an abrupt transition from an illegal offer to a regulated offer, the so-called "clean sweep";]] [[Whereas this entails the risk of consumers buying their products elsewhere and thereby increasing the black market;]] [[calls on the Government to organise the experiment in such a way as to replace the illegal offer with the regulated offer for a short period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u193	We have also briefly discussed the criterion of residence. It has been very problematic in a number of border municipalities. I call Nijmegen. There the nuisance became much greater and was consciously chosen not to strictly maintain the resident criterion. If we now decide that we have to, then such communities cannot actually participate. I would therefore like to ask for some local customization. That is why I am tabling a motion with Mr Van Nispen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both the Advisory Committee on Experiment Closed Cannabis Chain and the Association of Dutch Municipalities call for attention to differences in regional relations and to requirements for effective burden reduction;]] [[Whereas more local tailor-made work has been requested in particular in the enforcement of the resident criterion by participating border municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to consult further with participating municipalities on how to derogate from the residence criterion in view of local circumstances and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u194	Finally, the involvement of consumers. I have heard the Minister say that he also wants to involve consumers, but I have not yet heard how. I had a motion in preparation on a consumer panel. I hope that the Minister will be able to deal with this in his second term and give a little more clarity on how he is going to do so. But then I won't have a chance to file a motion, so I'm going to file this motion now anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the success of the experiment to have sufficient information on the needs and wishes of consumers both during the preparation phase and during the course of the experiment;]] [[whereas the Advisory Committee on Experiment Closed Cannabis Chain therefore envisages setting up a Consumer Panel;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a structure in which consumers' wishes and needs can be taken into account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u195	I think my vote indicates it's time to stop, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u196	I thought you were emotional. Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u197	It's okay that there's going to be an experiment, but the SP remains concerned. We want this to be a success so that we can learn from experience. I am not yet convinced that these ministers really want to make this a success. I found that there really was a downright weak response to parts of it. I am very sorry to hear that in such an important debate as this. Take, for example, the resident criterion. I am very pleased that the Minister will explain to me what a border municipality is. I myself live in a few kilometres from the Belgian border. That is indeed a border municipality. But that, of course, was not the question I asked. I really regret that the Minister did so in parts. For this reason and for reasons of substance, we have co-signed the motion by GroenLinks on this point. The same applies to the gradual introduction. We have also co-signed the motion by GroenLinks on this subject. That is important, because if we do not do so, we will take a considerable risk if we say beforehand that there must be, bang-boom, from one day to the next, that said clean sweep. As far as the amendments are concerned, too, I am very unhappy. If you write in an amendment that you do not want to introduce into the law now that it may be a maximum of ten municipalities, and the Minister says that we have just agreed to this in the government agreement and that it is because of international law, it raises the question: why should it be allowed in nine municipalities, even if you do not know what size, how many inhabitants or how many coffeeshops are involved, and not in eleven? Is it true that 11 municipalities face sanctions from the United Nations because it would be contrary to international law? Oh, come on! That is not a substantive basis. Slide that decision out for you. I do not do it often, but I do give the cabinet more room to do it wisely on this point. But the Minister does not do that and says that it must remain ten. I'm sorry to hear that. As far as the other experiment is concerned, too, we say that it must be possible to continue unless it is not successful, because then a different choice can be made. Nor does that differ in principle from the intentions proposed. It is simply a more positive view and we want it to be a success. I give the Ministers a reconsideration to look even more closely at that. Then there's the question of when it's gonna be a success. The SP follows the Knottnerus Committee. But the Minister has made a different choice, with reasons: we have made a different choice. I didn't think that was so strong either, so that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Knottnerus Advisory Committee considers the experiment with regulated pot growing to be successful if it has become clear after thorough research that a closed cannabis chain is feasible and that the measured effects are beneficial or do not show any deterioration compared to the current situation;]] [[considers that such a result is a clear result that advocates regulation of the cannabis chain in the Netherlands, as it is unrealistic to expect that this limited experiment will lead to demonstrable effects on public health and crime;]] [[calls on the Government to base the evaluation of the experiment on the definition of a successful experiment as defined by the Knottnerus Committee in its opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it may be important for the success of the regulated growing experiment that the experiment can also be adjusted in the intervening period;]] [[calls on the Government to set up the experiment in such a way as to allow for the mid-term review of the experiment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for a successful experiment that producers must supply sufficient, continuous, diverse and quality offerings that meet the consumer's wishes;]] [[considers that, in order to ensure a variety of offers, it would be better to opt for an open system of licences which does not limit the number of producers but, of course, must comply with the conditions laid down;]] [[calls on the Government not to apply the maximum and draw-out of licences to the experiment-closed coffeeshop chain and instead to rely on an open licensing system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Buitenweg and Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-17]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u198	Finally, Mr President. We are therefore in favour of an experiment. That is why we will support this law, which makes this experiment possible, or at least I will advise my group to do so. But I do do so with some reluctance, not only because the answer today was not very strong, but also because I am not convinced that these ministers have taken the valuable advice so far, for example from the Knottnerus Committee, but also the concerns of the coffeeshop municipalities and entrepreneurs and the possible future growers sufficiently seriously. We must make this a success, because there is an opportunity here. I really hope that this will play an important role in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u199	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. We are also looking forward to the next step when it comes to the general measure of governance. We would like to ask the directors once again to take with them what has been shared today and what comes from the municipalities, the mayors and also from the coffee shop sector. I'm filing two motions. The first concerns an important point for us: the transitional period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that with the start of this experiment, the cultivation and sale of cannabis for and in many coffee shops in the designated municipalities are organised in a completely new way;]] [[Whereas it is impossible to predict how consumers and other stakeholders will react and what the quality and diversity of the supply of regulated producers will be;]] [[Considers that a hard transition, from one day to the next, by coffeeshops, growers and other interested parties cannot properly anticipate practical adjustments or possible shortcomings of the new system;]] [[Whereas this experiment is done precisely to find out how this new system can work without problems with consumer confidence or the purchase by coffee shops of different cannabis products encountering insurmountable objections;]] [[calls on the Government, as part of the preparatory phase, to provide for a transitional period allowing coffeeshops in designated municipalities to purchase cannabis from designated growers;]] [[calls on the Government to make the preparatory phase also explicitly the subject of the evaluation of this experiment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u201	Then there is my second motion, which I tabled together with Mrs Ploumen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas timely, sufficient, diverse, quality and continuous supply, in line with the wishes and trust of consumers and coffeeshops participating in the experiment, is crucial for the experiment with a closed coffeeshop chain;]] [[noting that most of the available genetics (variates) are intended for indoor farming rather than greenhouse farming and that there should therefore be room within the experiment for different cultivation systems;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, in the selection of growers, at least diversity in cultivation design, close involvement of the coffeeshop industry and, as part of the quality requirements, to ask explicitly for the grower's breeding plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u202	I had two more motions, but I am not going to table them because the directors have made some promises. I have two more questions. International cooperation can become very volatile, such as: we take some with us from time to time. But there are a lot of developments at the moment. The directors have indicated that they want to report annually to the Chamber. I like that. As part of this, I would like to see us getting a little more feeling with the learning points of international developments and how we are looking for cooperation in them. But I also understand the Minister's remark: we have our own experiments. My second question concerns the user experiences, which are explicitly taken into account and monitored. I would like to ask the directors to start in the preparatory phase so that we can learn from that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u203	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group, the PVV, is against the regulation of cannabis, and therefore against this experiment. That's what I said in the first term. However, I am using a second term, because after the government's first term, I can come to the conclusion that the experiment really has no chance of success. The principles of the coalition parties are completely different. The CDA has a particular focus on public health. I have some sympathy for that. The Christian Union is literally saying: it must not be an obstinacy to regulation. My group understands that too. D66 says: it's a way to regulate. The VVD says it's smarter regulation. In good Dutch, chairman: whatever that may be. I'm also sure valuable time will be wasted. For 40 years, the policy of tolerance has lasted, which friend and enemy say is bankrupt. Drugs were, are and remain prohibited under the Opium Act. The experiment doesn't make it any different. It's just tolerated. That's nothing more or less than maintaining with the hand brake on it. So the experiment is more or less regulating with the hand brake on it. The only thing that is needed in such a situation is a clear choice. Then there's only two flavors. It is maintained or regulated. It will not surprise you, because I said it in the first place: my group is in favour of maintaining it combined with a policy of discouragement. Let's take 40 years for that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u206	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the detailed answers to the questions, as far as possible. I would like to wish them every success in their further development, because there is still a lot to be done to ensure that this is done in a careful way. I thought the commitments were clear. Let me tell you that I have a good intention. I also think it is my job as a member of the Bureau to give substance to this. If I've received promises, I can file all sorts of motions before the charade, but I just don't do it anymore. On the one hand, I do not do it because I think: I only make myself smaller, as if the cabinet only listens to me when I make a motion. On the other hand, let's not beat around the bush: if I had to settle something for this law right now, I wouldn't have been worth a snipe in front of my nose in the entire preliminaries. That's a charade. If I hadn't taken care of it by now, I'd never take care of it again. As far as we're concerned, it's very clear. The current requirements for advertising continue to apply. The Health Minister made that clear. It is good that prevention has been added. It is crystal clear what we expect from the resident criterion and how it should be introduced. All the coffeeshops in a municipality just go with them. Mr. Chairman. A number of points have been added. I understand that Mrs Bergkamp is concerned about the growers; all very well. I understand there are concerns about mayors and their safety. Mr Laan-Geselschap has something about that; I fully agree with that. But, Mr. Chairman, if I haven't settled it by now, I'm a real loser.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u207	That is how we know Mrs Van Toorenburg. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for their answer. It remains regrettable, I repeat, to Mr Van Nispen, that the cabinet does not give itself the opportunity to pre-determine the number of municipalities, but to determine it in the light of expert judgements. Maybe they'll come back on their feet. I'm just gonna call them again. I have a motion and it's about the starting point of preparation. The ministers have said something about this. I would like to clarify that. I also warmly invite Mrs Madeleine van Toorenburg to support this motion. Unlike her, I have no time and no opportunity to settle anything other than in this room, and I really like that very much. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the duration of the preparatory phase is not laid down in the law but is determined by the ministers responsible;]] [[whereas at the time when the Lower House has agreed to the bill, the municipalities wishing to participate can report;]] [[considers that the experiment should start as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government to start preparing the experiment as much as possible as soon as the House of Representatives has agreed to the bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u209	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that we would like this experiment to be successful. We hope that all suggestions made by the Chamber to the cabinet will be taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now turn to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thanks to the rulers for their extensive first-term response. In my first term, I drew a great deal of attention to the issue of prevention. Minister Bruins has also said very clearly that it is simply not healthy for you. But we also see that there are just additional risks and that there are particularly vulnerable target groups among young people. For example, the Trimbos Institute says that if you have a lot of free time or you have a lot of gamet there can be a relationship with problematic use. We believe that the prevention plan announced by the Minister must pay a great deal of attention to this. Special attention should also be paid to vulnerable target groups, such as young people in youth aid, the slightly intellectually limited and the young people trapped in youth establishments, because we know that their use is relatively high.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u212	I thank the Minister for his commitments, including his commitment to look at a prevention fund and how it can be financed, and also to look at the proposals made by the Knottnerus Committee. We'd like to wait and see. The AMvB also focuses on prevention. We are very happy to discuss this with the Minister. I will ask him if, before we discuss the AMvB, he can also outline the outline of a prevention plan in a letter to the Chamber. I would also like to thank the Ministers for their commitment to keep the Chamber informed of consultations with other countries, in a European context or in an international context or through UN organisations. I would very much appreciate a letter on this to keep an eye on it, so that we can continue to follow this experiment critically. In addition, I leave it in second place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u213	Thank you. I call Mrs Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr President, thank you. A change in the chair. Thank you also for responding to the cabinet and to all the officials who have done a lot of work in the room down the road. The debate has removed a number of uncertainties. It has also shown that there are still a lot of issues to be resolved. In the meantime, you have seen an amendment from my hand. We need to see how we can take that into account in future discussions on this issue. In addition, I am very pleased with many answers, but also with the debates and insights given by the other parties, including the VVD, on how we can implement smarter regulation in a practical way in the future. To return to the concern that we really have about the position of our directors and mayors in this country, we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas up to 10 municipalities will be selected to participate in the experiment-closed coffeeshop chain;]] [[Whereas mayors in these municipalities will be charged with possible closures of coffee shops if they do not wish to participate in the experiment;]] [[Whereas several mayors are seriously threatened by their fight against (drug) crime;]] [[Welcomes the fact that mayors of experimental municipalities should be accompanied, within the framework of their own security, in the possible closure of coffeeshops;]] [[calls on the government to identify, before the start of the experiment, how mayors can be supported and inform the Chamber thereof.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u215	I have another question about the amendment tabled by Mrs Laan-Selschap. The cabinet proposes a slight four-week front, which it wants to double in time. I honestly don't understand that, because that's a delay. In my opinion, this has major consequences for the route, for example when it comes to selecting municipalities. In any case, I would also like to ask the cabinet, through the petitioner, to indicate what the consequences are, but I honestly do not understand it either. We've had a consultation. We've all been able to read it. There's a piece coming up; it's coming up at the end of March. That is the final concept that we can respond to in four weeks. I don't understand the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u216	The amendment turns "four" into "eight." That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u217	It's raining platinums in response today. From four to eight, that's four more than four.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u218	You're gonna go far!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u219	I think you'll have to check it out in a minute, but I can tell you it's true. The question is indeed: why? We have at least seen the proposal for the AMvB so far. There have been many reactions. I think they've been in for a long time, but there's still a few comments to be made. The cabinet will come up with a proposal. And then we'll be able to come up with a proposal in four weeks' time, won't we? Everything's under pressure. I'm just worried about all sorts of things being delayed. I think we'll be able to treat something within four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u220	Of course, the Chamber is about its own agenda. What we are proposing is to keep that opportunity open at least from four to eight. I think that is a rather simple addition. I am also pleased to hear from all of you that you are acting bloody on this subject and think that four weeks is enough. We will take this into account in the assessment of whether we are finally sticking to this amendment. But, if I may say so, your argument and this statement, I shall perhaps bring to your attention on other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u221	Cosiness doesn't know time, I hear here. One last question: what exactly is the background to this amendment? That is not clear to me at all. It is also somewhat contrary to the intention of the Labour Party to deal with this with haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u222	In that respect, two things are mixed up here. There are parties who say everything must be urgent, urgent, urgent. Apparently, that's a reason to do things. As far as the VVD is concerned, care is paramount. We've had a debate. It has made it clear that many of the issues raised by the various colleagues still have to be discussed in substance, and that these are still the subject of the government's deliberations. We're gonna get another deal from the police, the D.A. and the Personal Data Authority. All kinds of social discussions are still at the root of this. We danced a little bit about all these things today. They're all coming. What we then do not understand as a VVD is that apparently everyone can do so in four weeks, with all the consultations that we have to have in those four weeks, with enormous urgency. That is why we say: care. When everyone here says "carefulness? That can also be done in four weeks," I say to you again: there are other legislative proposals in this house and other proposals that everyone keeps saying: let's look at the trial again or let's look at it again. We consider this to be so important and socially significant that we simply want to take a serious look at it and make up for these considerations. Anyway, if it is voted off later, isn't it a problem for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u223	It's the first time I've debated in this company. I like that. Let me say to Mrs Laan, through you, Mr President, that I am willing and able to do all that is necessary to reach a decision in four weeks' time. That has nothing to do with carelessness or weird intentions. That's my job. In four weeks: really, I can move mountains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u224	I have the same confidence in Mrs Ploumen. We've seen that a lot in the past, so I'd like to give her that compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u225	It was also a compliment to herself, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u226	That's what I thought, but that's what I like to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u227	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u228	A general measure of governance involves a standard four-week period. That is quite common practice. Then we can close it and hold a general discussion with the Minister and table motions. So saying that it is always, by definition, careless when we do that in four weeks, I find a little injustice to that practice that we have here. But I have a question. The VVD has been thinking for years about what the position is now. How should we regulate smarter in the Netherlands? Are those four weeks really gonna help with that? If so, I'd like to support the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u229	The helping hand of the SP, how can we put it next to us? We are certainly thinking hard and have not proposed these four weeks for nothing. I have not suggested at all that it should always be different than in this case. In this case, we have made this suggestion to our colleagues, particularly in view of today's debate and everything that is still coming to us. Once again, if you all feel you don't need to, we'll hear about it next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u230	I have a question about the motion. All these considerations literally state that it is about mayors of experimental communities, as Mrs Laan calls them. But in the operative part it says: asks the government... to take stock of how mayors can be supported. Yeah, that's all the mayors and then it's just policy support. So what's the point of the motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u231	You're absolutely right about that. I should perhaps add the words 'of the experimental communities'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u232	Are you going to add that? Then we want an updated motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u233	Yeah, we'll add that. It's my first time, so I'm gonna take a look at the Griffin for help. Do I have to write that down myself with a pen? Do I have to file the motion again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u234	Yeah, well, it's gonna have to be handed in one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u235	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u236	The motion-Laan-Selschap c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas up to 10 municipalities will be selected to participate in the experiment-closed coffeeshop chain;]] [[Whereas mayors in these municipalities will be charged with possible closures of coffee shops if they do not wish to participate in the experiment;]] [[Whereas several mayors are seriously threatened by their fight against (drug) crime;]] [[Welcomes the fact that mayors of experimental municipalities should be accompanied, within the framework of their own security, in the possible closure of coffeeshops;]] [[calls on the government to identify, before the start of the experiment, how mayors of experimental municipalities can be supported and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 22 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u237	Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again. I would also like to thank the rulers for answering the questions. It was not entirely satisfactory, but that had more to do with the content than with the careful way it happened. Thank you for that. I have one point that I would like to zoom in on, namely the alternative experiment I have appointed. I am grateful to the Minister for pointing out that it is not part of the coalition agreement and that therefore means that the coalition partners have the free hand in it. I therefore invite everyone to support that experiment through this motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to regulate the cultivation and sale of pot with the experiment in order to assess its effects on crime, safety, nuisance and public health;]] [[Whereas the regulation of the cultivation and sale of marijuana is only one of the possible scenarios with the aim of addressing the problems arising as a result of the current policy of tolerance;]] [[Whereas it is good for the purity of decision-making to also examine the effects of other possible scenarios;]] [[calls on the Government, in parallel with the experiment of the coffeeshop chain, to develop an experiment in a number of municipalities where weed sales are currently tolerated, which prohibits and maintains the sale of weed and other soft drugs in these municipalities, in order to assess their impact on crime, safety, nuisance and public health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u238	Mr. Chairman. That was my second-term input. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u239	Very good. So much for the second term of office. I think the rulers will be able to judge the motions in five minutes? Ten. All right, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u240	Very good. I call Mr Bruins. I assume he's gonna take care of the first motions. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u241	Mr President, thank you very much. In most cases, a response to motions or amendments is a single remark. First towards Mrs Buitenweg. How do you read Article 12 of the law? That's what she asked. I've taken care of that bill for a while. Actually, I think: first the evaluation, then the cabinet position. The cabinet's position is about the evaluation and the consequences that the cabinet then sits wishes to link to it. That evaluation and that cabinet response are therefore both in the experimental phase, i.e. prior to the phase-out phase. I thought it might be good to clarify that in the direction of Mrs Buitenweg. I see she's getting very excited about that. That's a form of entrapment, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u242	I was just about to tell you. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u243	I'm gonna try one more time. That makes me moderately enthusiastic. I get even more excited when it is clear that it will also depend on that evaluation how the phasing-out will eventually take place. I understand, of course, that the Minister cannot say which way it is going, but that committee is now saying that there is an automatic phasing-out, the Minister himself has just said that there is an automatic phasing-out, and now it has been said that there is a decision. So I think it is important to say that this decision-making process has an impact on the so-called automatic phasing-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u244	Yeah, but we'll have to leave that to the cabinet. This reflects the impact it wishes to have on the evaluation report. So we are not getting out of this together, I say in the direction of Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u245	Very good. The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u246	The motion in part No. 13 is about designing the experiment in such a way that the regulated offer replaces the illegal offer for a short period of time. The subject of the transitional period is addressed by the AMvB, during the consultation round. We discussed this in the first period. I would like to make the proposal that the motion for a resolution should be put to the vote at the next voting time. 13 is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u247	Yes, but that proposal is not by you to make, because it is not your motion. Life is hard. I would like to take a look at Mrs Buitenweg, who is speaking with the fellow applicants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u248	I'll check with the petitioners. We are holding the motion because a message has already been sent, I think, to the ministers for the implementation of the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u249	At the request of Mrs Buitenweg, I propose her motion (34997, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u250	On the motion in part No. Mr Grapperhaus will respond shortly. The motion in part No. Mrs Buitenweg's 15 calls on the government to develop a structure in which consumers' wishes and needs can be taken into account. In the first term, I said that I want to monitor the views, the opinions of consumers in the trial on the part of the government. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict to your Chamber. If you want a consumer panel, I think that the market players should set it up and I advise against the motion. Once again, I intend to read her in such a way that the opinion of consumers is monitored and I would like to involve her in the experiment. That is what I said in the first term. If I can read her like that, I'll leave the judgment to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u251	I note for the record that Mrs Buitenweg nods. This has become a state-law fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u252	The next speaker was Mr Van Nispen. He had already tabled an amendment in the first period. I responded to that in the first period. I would advise against that amendment. Mr Van Nispen cum suis had also tabled a number of motions. The first of these, in part No. 16, calls on the Government to base the evaluation of the experiment on the definition of a successful experiment as defined by the Knottnerus Committee. We advise against this motion. Whether the measured effects and the evaluation lead to the conclusion that there is a successful experiment is on the then sitting cabinet. The motion in part No. 17 invites the government to set up the experiment in such a way as to allow for the mid-term adjustment of the experiment. We advise against this motion. During the course of an experiment, it is important to measure the effects with as many solid elements as possible in that experiment. So you don't have to make any interim changes. You know that because we talked about this in the first period of time, we did include a safety net clause in case we run into unforeseen circumstances, but that is something else. We do not think that intermediate adjustment is wise for the purpose of measuring the effects. Therefore, we advise against the motion in part No. 17. The motion in part No. 18 calls on the Government not to apply the maximum and draw-out of licences to the experiment-closed coffeeshop chain and instead to rely on an open licensing system. I'm sure we'll be able to talk about that at the AMvB, but one thing's for sure. We want to set limits and not an open licensing system, so we advise against this motion. I come to Mrs Bergkamp and her motion on item No. 19. Mrs Bergkamp has also tabled a motion on the transitional period. As with the others, I would suggest that the motion be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u253	Yes, but Mrs Bergkamp really has to do it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u254	Since the opposition has held its motion, I would like to put my motion to the vote. No, I'm not. I'm gonna keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u255	The voltage is increased to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u256	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u257	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (34997, No. 19). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u258	Mr. Chairman. The Berkkamp/Ploumen motion in part No. 20 calls on the government to ensure, in the selection of growers, at least diversity in cultivation design, to involve the coffeeshop industry closely and to explicitly ask for the cultivation plan as part of the quality requirements. In the first term we exchanged that we will come back to that in detail at the AMvB. I really need to look into the content of this. I understand the broad thrust, but I would ask that this motion also be retained so that we can discuss this further with the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u259	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u260	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (34997, No. 20). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u261	Mrs Bergkamp asked two more questions. She asked me to include developments in other countries on the same subject in my annual reporting. Yes, but only if there's anything to report. I don't go to every country every month or every year, but if there's something special going on and that's relevant to us to know, as part of the experiment or otherwise, I'd like to involve that in the annual reporting. But do not ask me to make very thick books about other countries in addition to the experiment. That was one question. The other question was whether we started monitoring the project during the preparation. We will. A zero measurement is foreseen, so I'd be happy to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u262	My question was about the users. Are users' experiences already being monitored during the preparatory phase? That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u263	Oh, I didn't get that right. Then I would like to keep that question to the next debate. I just need to figure out how to organize that. Can I comment on that in the discussion of the AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u264	You keep the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u265	I have one more specific question. I think it would be fine if the Minister had to find out a few things, but when would I get an answer to this question? Does that happen in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u266	I'll do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u267	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u268	That's what I'm doing this month. That's so easy. Then there is the Ploumen motion in part No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u269	21.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u270	It's for colleague Grapperhaus. The same applies to the motion-Laan-Geselschap c.s. in piece No. 22. There was another question from Mrs Van der Graaf. Can I say anything more about the prevention plan in the discussion of the AMvB? I do not yet have the outline of the prevention plan, but I will be able to say a little more about it. I'd like to try to outline a main line for you at the next meeting. Mrs Van der Graaf spoke in the first term about consultations with other countries which have similar experiments and who are also critical of our experiment. What will be exchanged about that? I am looking for a useful way to inform you about this at regular intervals during the duration of the experiment. Then there is the amendment by Mr Laan-Geselschap in part No. 12. I believe that if, at the beginning of April, we present the draft AMM to you, after the consultation and a view from the Council of Ministers, it should be possible to deal with it within four weeks. But that is of course up to you. In those four weeks you can also indicate that you want to deal with it at a later date. I don't want to be too generous here, because then it seems like we want to take a lot of time for that. That is what your Chamber is about, but I would like to advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u271	The ruler is very clear. I always regret that people do not want to be too generous, but in this case I do understand. I also understand that other people are getting very restless about this. The VVD is in a good mood today, so we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u272	The Laan-Geselschap amendment (Doc. 12) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u273	Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Bishop's motion on item No. 23, in which the government is asked to draw up another experiment. As I said in the first term, I do not think it is a good idea to develop a second experiment. We already have our hands full with this experiment. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u274	And so, in judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u275	So dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u276	I saw it coming a little bit. Thank you. Then Minister Grapperhaus, for the remaining three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u277	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 14, by members Buitenweg and Van Nispen. It contains a request for further consultation with the participating municipalities on how to derogate from the resident criterion in the light of local circumstances. I'm deceiving that motion. Again, it is essential to send a signal to neighbouring countries that the effects of the experiment are kept as much as possible within the Netherlands. We also do this by obliging the border municipalities to maintain the resident criterion. In other municipalities it is local customization. In the motion in part No. Mrs Ploumen's request is to start preparing the experiment as much as possible as soon as the legislative proposal is passed. If I can understand the motion in such a way that, as soon as the bill is passed by the Chamber, we will do everything we can to bring the experiment forward as early and as well as possible, then I can leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u278	I'd like to hear that from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u279	Yes, the Minister may read the motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u280	Thank you. In the motion in part No. Mrs Laan-Geselschap's 22 requests for an inventory of how we can provide support to the mayors, of course, involved. I can very well imagine such an inventory being made. I shall therefore leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber as well. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u281	Thank you. Then we're out, because I think all the questions have been answered as well. So much for this debate. Thank you to both regiments for their presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-17-tweedekamer-8.u282	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal. I shall suspend until five o'clock, and then we will talk about Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal.
