ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on information on civilian deaths in Iraq. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence and give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen as the first speaker. Speaking time is about four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you. "Guys, that was four years ago." That was the rather laconic reaction of our Prime Minister to what may have been the most deadly attack, in terms of civilian casualties, of the Dutch armed forces in our history. Let that work on you for a while! The Prime Minister has been informed of this on several occasions, even orally by his Minister of Defence. Today he wants us to believe that he has no memory of it. Mr. Chairman. We've heard that before. With the dividend memos, there were no active memories. In Halbe Zijlstra's lies, there were no active memories until they got into the paper. Then all of a sudden the memories were there, and then the Prime Minister had a problem. The cabinet now states that the reports that were disseminated about the potential civilian casualties would not have been alarming. Mr President, I wonder and I ask the Prime Minister through you how that is possible. When you hear about possible civilian casualties, how can that have the qualification "not alarming"? That must be an alarming message in itself, I hope. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. Or, Mr. Chairman, is there something else going on here? As far as I am concerned, that could be two things. Or perhaps it was convenient for the Prime Minister to now qualify these messages as "not alarming," because he himself may have come to the conclusion that otherwise it would have been nice to share these messages with the House of Representatives. Or, the other version, the urgency of these reports about potential civilian casualties and their alarming nature really did not get through to the Prime Minister. Then we've got another problem, I guess. Because how can I ask the Prime Minister that this information has not reached him? For example, didn't he ask through? Because that's the most important information a prime minister should know, right? What was the relationship with the extension of the mission that was on the role, I ask the Prime Minister. I would ask the Prime Minister if, in this case, the assessment of Defence might not be appropriate at the time to take note of this message. CENTCOM as well as Reuters, Airwars, the Red Cross, the United Nations and so on, various media have all reported the potential civilian casualties. Is it true, then, that my question to the Prime Minister is that the cabinet has not contacted any of these organizations or media to check these messages? Does the Cabinet want to know the truth? That's a question that's gonna push us tonight. The minister hid behind secret reports for a very long time. We therefore call on the Minister tonight to release those reports, those documents, as well as the dates of the other attacks. I do so because in many reports in the media and in reports from independent organisations, higher numbers of civilian casualties are reported over and over again than we are told as the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Three weeks ago, there was also a debate here with the Minister of Defence. That debate lasted for hours. The Secretary of Defense apologized. She admitted that her predecessor, Mrs Hennis, was indeed aware of the civilian casualties suffered by the Dutch bombs and that the House of Representatives should have been informed. She apologized. But, Mr President, three weeks later, we are back here again. And three weeks later, the fog is only bigger. Three weeks later, the cabinet sent a letter in which it writes about "probably civilian casualties." Does this mean that the Minister does not even want to confirm any more that civilian casualties have been committed at all? Finally, Mr President. The Minister of Defense is thus slandering the House of Representatives and thus insulting the Dutch, because we are entitled to the truth. The previous debate here ended in the fact that a large part of this House of Representatives gave up confidence in this minister. And as far as the SP is concerned, things haven't gotten much better since then. My question is therefore: how does the Minister intend to maintain her position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Why are we standing here tonight? Why are we having this debate? More than four years ago, there was a tragic event and why talk about it? I imagine there are people who think: hey, three weeks ago it was about this and there they are again in that parliament. We are standing here because, with the agreement of this parliament, the cabinet sends soldiers abroad, who are there at risk for their own lives to promote or maintain peace and security. This brings with it risks for these military forces, and that brings with it risks for the citizens of those countries. And if there are casualties, for whatever reason, then it is of the utmost importance that the political leadership of this country gets that information as soon as possible. And that didn't happen. Mr. Chairman. I find it difficult to believe that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence have not discussed this information with each other, especially in the light of the extension of this mission on 19 June 2015. Sometimes the facts speak for themselves. Let's name the dates. Hawija was bombed on the night of June 2rd to 3rd. The Pentagon gave a press conference on 5 June 2015 indicating that civilian casualties were likely, many civilian casualties. The Minister of Defence, Minister Hennis, was first briefed on 9 June that it is likely that many civilian casualties have occurred. On 15, the CENTCOM report quotes from public sources that 70 deaths would have occurred. And on June 19th, the Council of Ministers decides on the extension of the mission. That would have happened without the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence having discussed this with each other. I find this hard to believe. The question that arises is whether extending the mission was more important than sharing the truth. Why is this extension of the mission not in the factual account of 5 November? Standing this meeting I would like to receive from the Cabinet a timeline related to the extension of this mission. How did the decision-making in the cabinet go? What memos have been written about this? What minutes are there? During the discussion of the extension of this mission, has there been talk of civilian casualties in Iraq? Mr. Chairman. I said: it's hard to imagine that the VVD and Labour Party cabinet would have decided to extend the mission without this information being shared. I wonder if the Chamber has asked for the right documents. We have constantly asked for information shared by the cabinet regarding the attack. But again the request: for the first term of office, I would like to receive information here on how that extension decision was taken. I'll come to a conclusion. It seems that the continuation of this mission was so important that the Ministry of Defence withheld crucial information, for members of the cabinet, for the members of this parliament and for the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u5	This is an important subject, and Mr. Klaver kept a passionate story. It's about something... essential. It's about providing information, including to the Chamber. Does Mr Klaver know about the letter of 13 April 2018, the fight against international terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u6	Yeah, but I'm sure you're gonna quote something from that, and it's a lot of pages. So I don't know what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u7	I'm gonna do it right away. That letter is about the results of the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In that letter addressed to the Chamber, the four cases are discussed. The first case involved an attack by a Dutch F-16 on a facility. "It is very likely that civilian casualties have occurred during this attack." The Chamber has therefore been informed. The second is about the alleged headquarters of ISIS. "Citizens were killed in this attack." I hear Mr Klaver talking seriously about information to the Chamber. The Chamber has received information. Does Mr Klaver know what happened to the handling of this letter? Was GroenLinks then at this desk asking for a debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u8	I see that the coalition, through the VVD colleague, has prepared the defense well. There is now a reference to the fact that research has been carried out and that this has been shared with the Chamber. Yeah, we're aware of that. But I'm referring to something completely different. This information came a long way after the decision was taken to extend this mission. This was about the outcome of the D.A.'s investigation. I'm talking about information that was available to the Cabinet about 70 to 170 deaths that would have occurred in Hawija daily before this mission was extended. That's when we were here at the Interrupt Microphone? No, we weren't here then, because we didn't have that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr Klaver speaks passionately, but if we get information in the Chamber, it is important that the reaction fits in with what you ask of the cabinet. When this letter came, we neatly drew up a list of factual questions until 31 May. This letter was only dealt with in general consultations on 27 June. Mr Klaver says here 'it can't be true that this kind of thing happens', while the Chamber was simply informed. But when it was in 2018 he wasn't at this desk to be able to talk about this. That just happened in a general discussion. Apparently, the pressure on Mr. Klaver wasn't that high back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u10	Not all information was available. This was about the prosecution, namely whether or not prosecution would be initiated. The conclusion from the investigation was that that would not happen. We have not asked any further questions. But I'm not going back to 2018 but to 2015. Mr Bosman ignores that, and I think the coalition will pass a little too easily. I go back to that crucial moment of 2015 when it was said to the Chamber: there were no civilian casualties. That was June 23rd. On 19 June, the Council of Ministers decided to extend this mission. The Prime Minister claims that I hope you will ask him not to have any memory of the talks he would have had on this matter if they have already taken place with the Minister of Defence. Can you imagine? Can you imagine that the Prime Minister, whom I know as an extremely involved director, someone who has a great heart, especially for the defence sector, and who would send those people to Iraq to fight for our own lives there, would not know that civilian victims have been killed there? You should also be interested in that question. You should also ask for this instead of asking me now what I did in 2018. With all due respect, not very relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u11	I think it's relevant. I'm looking at myself, too. When we raise these issues, I think it is important that we learn from them. We can now have a high-pitched debate here and it is about something, I agree with Mr Klaver, but we should have had this debate in 2018 and perhaps sooner. The information was there. Then we could have had the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate and for the previous one is sad: innocent civilians died in two Dutch attacks on ISIS in Iraq. No misunderstanding: our pilots are not to blame. They deserve all our appreciation for their efforts to free the world and thus ourselves from the medieval barbarism of Islamic State. But what we are talking about here, again, is how the Dutch government, the Minister of Defence, acts first and foremost in those cases where it goes wrong, and about the openness that is then exercised; must be respected. Openness that our rule of law demands. Whatever we have to ask for as a chamber, because we are the ones who, when it comes to it, have to make the choice to send the men and women of our armed forces under dangerous conditions. Being able to rely on the information provided to us is crucial. Tonight we are talking about this again, because the previous debate raised more questions than answered. We are doing this, among other things, in response to the letter sent to us by the Secretary of Defense after that debate last Monday. But, like the previous debate, this letter raises questions. Questions that need to be answered immediately here and now, in this debate. How is it that we now have to read that the number of civilian casualties remains unclear to this day? That we now have to read that there is no final report on the attack on Hawija? On the basis of which did the Minister say in the debate on 5 November I reviewed the stenogram that she was personally informed about 70 victims between February and April 2018? What source or sources was it based on? She then talked about reports from the Public Prosecutor's Office, but that only investigated the legality of the attack and not the number of victims? When did the Minister find out that there is no final report at all? Recent inquiries have shown that, as we read in the letter. How recent, I ask. Was that before or after the Minister took office? Was it between February and April 2018, when she heard there were going to be dozens of victims? Was it after NIS and NRC reported? Or was it after the last debate? Is the Minister prepared to ask the Americans to carry out a final investigation? Why didn't the Minister take office when she was informed about possible civilian deaths have her question immediately about all the facts? If NOS and NRC write on 18 October of this year about 70 civilian casualties and two days later write that the former Secretary of Defense has thus misinformed the Chamber, why should it take more than two weeks before this letter to be recognised to the Chamber? Why does the previous factual account contain assumptions? What does it mean that the previous minister suspects that she has informed the Prime Minister? Doesn't the Minister think it would have made more sense to do research before she came up with assumptions? I ask the Prime Minister when he has heard of dozens of victims. When did the alarm bells start ringing with him? Was that also between February and April 2018? Was it before? Was it when NOS and NRC published about it? After reading the story of the facts, maybe? Or was it only after the last debate? Mr. Chairman. I want to see a Secretary of Defense who is the infamous Defence culture of being as closed as possible, rather than making things as transparent as can be, small instead of recognizing them, tackling them, and not one who owns this culture. A minister who ensures that we can rely on what is being said, rather than doubting it. As I said, this is crucial, especially for possible future missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Klaver has another question. First Mr Klaver and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u15	In 2015 Mr Kerstens was also a member of this House of Representatives. Then it was decided to extend the mission. His party was in the cabinet at the time. Did Mr Kerstens wish to have the information that is now coming up about Hawija when that decision had to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u16	I didn't, but I wish I had her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u17	I am a little surprised by the tone of the Labour Party. Because I remember the previous debate with Mrs Bijleveld. I didn't do that myself, that debate was held by a colleague. In that debate, Mrs Bijleveld said that it is now clear from the documents we received the day before yesterday that the Chamber has indeed been misinformed. But she likes to throw people in front of the train, as you know. That letter was also signed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Koenders, and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Mrs Ploumen. So two of the three signatories to that letter were Labour Directors' Party. It was not only Mrs Hennis, it was also two PvdA ministers who misinformed the Chamber. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u18	In the facts that we asked for before the previous debate, there were a lot of data with facts. Mr Wilders is now quoting one of those dates and what happened on that day. There was also a number of assumptions in that fact story. One of those assumptions was that not only the then Secretary of Defense but also colleagues were aware of her. That was the reason, also for Mr Wilders' colleague at the time and for almost the entire Chamber, to ask further questions, because it is not really appropriate to include assumptions in a factual account. The further investigation initiated in response to that question led to the letter last Monday evening. My feeling is that these assumptions have not become so much stronger as weaker. There is a difference in memory, so to speak, between the one who claims to have provided information and others who are claimed to have received that information. What is clear is that the person who claims to have provided that information also indicates that it was very brief, that it did not take place in an alarming way and that it indicated that, as is actually standard, there would be an investigation into whether civilian casualties have occurred. So I do not have the idea, not the knowledge that the ministers you referred to at the time were aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u19	I'm not talking about assumptions at all. I'm not talking about feelings. I'm not talking about ideas. I'm talking about the facts. You know that Mrs Hennis misinformed the Chamber twice. The first time was in a letter on "What was it?" OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. That letter was co-signed by Koenders and Ploumen. Their signature was underneath. Mrs Bijleveld was right to say that in the last debate. The second time Mrs Hennis misinformed the Chamber was at the general meeting of 30 June 2015. In that consultation, the progress report was on the agenda, together with the examination of Article 100 of that extension mission. There Mrs Hennis again said something that was wrong. Once again she misinformed the Chamber, and Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Koenders sat next to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Koenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u21	So I'm not talking about whether Mrs. Hennis has informed anyone. At two moments the Labour Party was also guilty of informing the Chamber wrongly. Let me ask you again: what do you think of that? And how did you get into your head... As far as I am concerned, how did you manage to support a motion of censure against Mrs Bijleveld last time, which might as well have included the names of the two PvdA executives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u22	It was a long question. I'll try to keep my answer a little shorter. I'm sticking to the facts. I'm sticking to the facts that are written down in the fact report. Then I'm not talking about assumptions that were in it; then I'm talking about facts. And I'm sticking to the facts in last Monday's letter. The fact that someone is sitting next to someone, as you have just pointed out, Mr Koenders and/or Mrs Ploumen, does not mean that they are talking about the science that is at stake here and which has been established here last time that it was the Minister of Defence, the former Minister of Defence, and the current Minister of Defence, who gave false information, said something about that. The two ministers you are referring to have not been informed. The documents didn't show that. The mere fact that they sat next to a minister does not mean that they are, as Mr Wilders says, a co-guilty one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u23	They've got that letter... You're turning around. The representative of the Labour Party does not reply. They co-signed the letter of 23 June to the Chamber with the lie. So don't play games. Don't lie to me. Don't blame yourself for whatever the cabinet does. They knew. They were responsible for that. They signed off on it. As Mrs Bijleveld said, I must be the one to repeat what she said last time in the debate: they were 100% co-responsible. Don't beat around the bush. You have a load of butter on your head, your fraction, about 100 kilometers. You are signing motions of mistrust, but it was the rulers Koenders and Ploumen who co-signed the lie. What you're saying now, again, is unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. That was a lot of big words, right up to "lies." I have indicated, and I have argued, that I have kept to the facts which can be read back in the factual account and the letter of last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u25	Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party did not support this mission to Iraq, but at the time the Cabinet tried to convince the Chamber that it was very important, precisely to protect citizens from that horrible regime of IS. What I do not understand now is that we can see in the documents that former Defence Minister Hennis would have informed Minister Koenders and the Prime Minister, but not alarming, although the word "citizens" has fallen. In which universe is hearing that possibly civilian deaths have fallen on a mission that was launched to protect civilians not alarming? How could that not have been alarming for the relevant Minister of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u27	Unlike the Animal Party, the PvdA did support the mission at the time, because we felt that we have an interest and a responsibility to contribute to fighting IS. I just said that in my contribution. In last Monday's letter, I referred to this point, it is not clear whether those to whom Mrs Ouwehand refers have actually been informed by the previous Minister of Defence. What has become clear is that they have indeed been informed in a 'not alarming' way, not my words, but the words of the previous Minister of Defence, at least in the view of the former Minister of Defence. That is what is being said, and you can also read back that there is going to be an investigation into whether civilian casualties have occurred. That is the information which, according to her own words, was then provided by the former Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u28	It is all not getting any clearer, even since the foreign media of course also talked about what had happened there and, once again, the word "citizens" has fallen. I do not understand why I have to ask the Prime Minister, but I also ask the Labour Party now that if you are selling a mission by saying that you want to protect citizens from IS, you do not think any signal about civilian deaths is alarming enough, and that was clearly the case for the Labour Minister's Party to stay on top of that. I don't understand. I'll have that question with the Prime Minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u29	Let me first say that the mission has also protected many citizens. Unfortunately not in the tragic case we are discussing tonight, but of course many citizens are protected by the commitment of the men and women of the Dutch armed forces by the decision taken here in this Parliament by a majority to participate in this important fight against IS. Mrs Ouwehand's theorem is based on an assumption. The minister even calls it an assumption. In last Monday's letter, it still appears to be an assumption from a minister. She says: I have informed, concisely and not alarmingly, about an investigation into whether victims have been killed. The Prime Minister and the Minister say they have no memory of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u30	The Foreign Minister was unaware of whether the tone was not alarming enough. I would just like to read out the written answers to the questions that have been asked. The answer to question 6: the Minister of Foreign Affairs was informed in writing by the official representative on 4 June 2015, 11 June 2015 and 26 May 2016 on the same day about what was shared in or after the meetings. I ask Mr Koenders of the PvdA: how alarming do you want it to be, up to three times?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr Koenders is not here tonight, but I would like to answer Mr Kuzu's question. In last Monday's letter, we have just had a review of the question of whether or not the previous Minister of Defence has been informed orally by, for example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. In addition, Mr Kuzu quoted that piece when information was shared with directors at official level. As you can also find in the documents, this information relates, for example, to what was discussed in the SMO of 5 or 4 June, namely that there would be an investigation, which was also said to be standard in situations like this. That is an investigation, I repeat, into whether civilian casualties have occurred. The information that is being discussed was, by the way, always from the Ministry of Defence before it came to the Foreign Office. In my opinion, one of the points of discussion that we touched last time, and this evening, I am sure, is: what did the DOD share with whom when? I do not think that the fact that you have been notified to the public does not mean that it is not in the documents that you have heard that many or dozens of civilian casualties have been suffered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u32	It was a short question but a long answer. Of course, that means something. This is the point that Mr Kerstens made quite rightly, namely that the military are not responsible for the civilian victims. I agree, but that also means that officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and officials in the Ministry of Defence are not responsible. The Minister is responsible! So you cannot hide behind the ministerial responsibility in one case and in the other say: the minister did not know. Once again, "On 1 July 2015, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was informed by his Director-General'. These are the answers to the written questions put by the Chamber. And I don't say it every day, but Wilders is absolutely right when he says that the PvdA doesn't have 1 kilo of butter on her head, but 100 kilos of butter on her head. What makes it particularly relevant is the fact that, possibly with the knowledge of the Foreign Minister, a few days later, the decision to extend the mission was taken. I ask the man: would Mr Kerstens of the PvdA agree with the new mission to Syria and Iraq with the knowledge that civilian casualties had occurred?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u33	Let me first respond to what Mr Kuzu started with. That's what I thought was important to hear. That is that he does not blame Dutch men and women of the armed forces. That's good...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u34	Don't distract from the debate!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u35	I'm not distracting. I only hear something quite different from what I heard in a previous debate on behalf of Mr Kuzu's party. Let's all find out. That that's clear. When it comes to the information contained in last Monday's letter, information that has been shared, it is of course relevant what information has been shared. I have said that this is the information that comes from the Ministry of Defence, the information that in such cases, apparently, there is a standard investigation into whether civilian casualties have occurred. Later the information came that that investigation had not yet been completed, again later the information that an interim investigation had been carried out. I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr Öztürk, you are not participating in the debate. You can't interfere either, or you'll have to sign up. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u37	That makes it particularly painful for the PvdA, because I quote from the answers to the written questions once again. What information was known? "On 1 July 2015, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was informed by his Director-General about the investigation that had shown that a Dutch F-16 had performed collateral damage in Iraq a few weeks before." This was the information that was known to the Foreign Minister. You can build a whole story around that, but you can also say: we were just really wrong! That's what I expect from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u38	I don't build a whole story around it, but I'd like to stick to the facts and I like to build my story with arguments. That seems to me to be preferable to shouting and using big words. I have indicated that the information that has been shared comes from the Ministry of Defence and that it has been said by the current Minister of Defence himself that it was incomplete or incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u40	Thank you, Mr President. "So that we will never forget": it stands on numerous Dutch war monuments and it is the motto of countless commemorations of the horrors of war. War is always horrible: for the people who are sent by government and cabinet to do difficult and traumatic work in which their own lives are at stake, and for the people who can become victims of it. For civilian casualties, too. But "so that we will never forget" does not seem to apply to the Prime Minister. Try to imagine, visualize it. The minister's predecessor informs the Prime Minister in a "non-alarming tone" of the possibility of civilian deaths in a bombing by the Dutch F-16 on Hawija. So "non-alarming" that it goes in one ear and out the other ear. Foreign media talked about dozens of civilian deaths, but the Foreign Ministers and the Prime Minister were apparently not interested in an area where the Netherlands flew fighters. Without context, the message might have been easier to digest, because the truth is always the first victim in a war. There are things we shouldn't forget. One day after the attack on an IS bomb factory, foreign media reported dozens of victims. The U.S. Supreme Command found it "believable" that civilian casualties had occurred. But the reality of the Hague was that the minister of defense's predecessor in the debate with the House of Representatives said that "we had to establish that there was no collateral damage," and that the Prime Minister was informed by former Minister Hennis, but "not alarming." In which universe is hearing the word "citizens" in relation to your own mission, which you have tried to sell in this Chamber as necessary and necessary to protect citizens "non-alarming," I ask the Prime Minister. I ask the VVD, who, in the previous debate, wondered out loud how well the political antenna was tuned to the Ministry of Defence, how well the political antenna of her own Prime Minister is set, if you do not take the opportunity of civilian deaths as a result of a mission that you yourself have proposed and commissioned. Mr. Chairman. Another truth we should not forget is that the bombing has left a ruin. Dozens of people have been killed or lost everything: their family, their home and their stuff. In The Hague it is called: no procedural mistakes have been made. And so neither the D.A. saw any reason to start a follow-up investigation. Apparently, the right button was pressed at the right time: a bombardment by the book. However, this does not relieve the cabinet of the obligation to start independent research. Why didn't that happen right away, and why still not? Mr. Chairman. Another painful truth we must not forget is that people have been injured. A man is wounded in the bombing of Hawija. His house and shop are being destroyed. He now lives in the Netherlands with his son, who became half blind during the attack, but his old house is still in ruins. The reality of the Hague is that, to this day, no penny has been paid to the victims and no immediate thought has been given to whether or not a bell has ringed, that if we are responsible for this, we must get the hell out of our way to help these people. Mr. Chairman. The events surrounding this bombing mainly show that the cabinet has lived in its own reality. There is no excuse for not fully informing the Chamber and there is no excuse for not compensating the victims and not conducting an investigation. Only after the press has gotten this case out, the Secretary of Defense is starting to think about compensation. It's too late. "So that we will never forget" seems to have become a motto for this cabinet that means "we never want to take any real responsibility." As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, there is no excuse for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Before I say anything, I would first like to express my deep respect for the military who are in charge of such heavy tasks. But now it's the case itself. I have a real problem. On the one hand, I sincerely admire the Prime Minister, his worklust, his stamina and his art to remain almost always cheerful. On the other hand, I don't know if I can believe him anymore. We had to wait a long time for the letter about the civilian deaths. Monday was the day: 22 pages. But reading it made me feel uncomfortable. What did I read? Why not explain why the Ministry had initially misinformed the Chamber? Why so many pages, so many sentences, so many words? It feels like a fogscreen. This is particularly true of the words put in the mouth of former Minister Hennis, namely that her statement to the Prime Minister would have been 'not alarming'. I can't help it; I kept wondering whether she would have pronounced that formulation spontaneously, or whether it was conceived by a spin doctor, the Ministry's Information Division, the General Affairs Department or the Prime Minister himself. Can I have an honest answer to that? I would very much like to know if there was any contact between the Prime Minister and Mrs Hennis before the letter was sent, in particular with regard to her statement. And what am I supposed to do with the Prime Minister's answer to Frits Wester's questions as early as 13 April 2018? Now it's making his happiest memory unbelievable. Can we be clear about this? Doesn't he know or doesn't he want to know? Or can we establish that he should have known anyway? Can I still believe this Prime Minister? It's not the first time his memory has failed. Can I still have faith in this cabinet? The police have lost confidence in the police department, the tax officials at their top, the farmers in the CDA, the builders in the VVD, the education in D66. The most recent poll yesterday from EenVandaag speaks volumes. More and more people feel like they're being cheated. This cabinet is cracking in its joints. The contrasts between the partners become more visible every day. The spell's gone. Much must be done before 50PLUS can maintain confidence in this team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u43	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr. Chairman. These are cozy times in the coalition. Thus towards Christmas there is a real atmosphere of interconnectedness and collegiality. In the nitrogen file, we already saw that. D66 extracted the blood under the fingernails of the VVD by pointing out that the speed reduction to 100 km/h was only the amuse of the seven-course dinner offered by that party. With pleasure they will have seen at D66 that the VVD has already lost seven virtual seats. But the CDA isn't the worst either. Minister Bijleveld first said ten times with twinkling eyes that not she but her predecessor Hennis of the VVD had misinformed the Chamber, and then also toss Prime Minister Rutte in front of the train by spontaneously and unsolicited reporting that Rutte had also been informed about the investigation into the civilian deaths. Today we read in the Algemeen Dagblad that CDA's stress that if this debate fails, it will not be the case that only Bijleveld has to resign. She's not going to be Rutte's lightning rod, so an initiate of the CDA warns. And then the foreman of the Christian Union, Segers. Before this debate begins, he too cannot help kicking the Prime Minister into his political cross by saying about the poor memory of the Prime Minister of those civilian deaths, and I quote: 'I would remember such a thing'. The Netherlands is destroyed by politicians who are more concerned with each other and securing their own position than solving the problems of ordinary people, politicians who lie and cheat together and keep each other's hands above their heads. Former VVD Minister of Defense Hennis lied to the Chamber twice. So her word is never reliable again. If she says she probably informed Rutte, you can assume that she has certainly informed the Prime Minister and is trying to keep her out of the wind. And if she says that the tone was not alarming, there is nothing here to suggest that she is telling the truth, quite the contrary. By the way, how can you doubt if you've said anything to anyone, but you're sure it wasn't alarming? How is that possible? I think only born liars can come up with something like that. Because, of course, it was alarming. From Reuters to Al Jazeera to Agence France-Presse, from the British Telegraph to the Italian press agency ANSA: everyone reported on many civilian deaths every day after the attack. The own damage assessment immediately showed that there was accidental collateral damage. That was immediately reported to CENTCOM. The Department of Defense itself started an additional investigation. The Pentagon reported that the coalition had also launched additional investigations. The Ministry sent employees to Qatar specifically for this purpose. How much more alarming do you want it? And we have to believe that Hennis's tone to the Prime Minister was not alarming? And we have to believe that the Prime Minister's memory failed, just like before with him and those other VVDs about the dividend memos, the receipts affair, Zijlstra's lies about his visit to Putin? Does Prime Minister Rutte think we're crazy here in Lower House? The VVD is one big lie machine. Of course the Prime Minister knew about it. He was informed orally by Minister Hennis. Yesterday's letter says that Hennis told the Prime Minister about a secondary explosion following the deployment of the Dutch F16s, that she told the Prime Minister the cause of this, and that you really do not do so in a few minutes and that she has also reported that further investigation into the civilian deaths would be carried out. Of course, the Prime Minister of advisors and intelligence services must also have been given the information we have just seen in all the newspapers in the Western world, namely that it was very likely that civilian casualties had occurred. Not only the coalition relations are screwed up, this whole issue stinks from all sides. If the Prime Minister did know about it, at least I don't believe he didn't know about it, then he also knew that his friend Hennis lied to the Chamber and didn't do anything about it. Moreover, as colleagues have already said, it might even have endangered the support of a number of parties, not mine, for the extension of the mission, two weeks after the bombing. The fog curtain that is now being created to keep the Prime Minister out of the wind is embarrassing and unbelievable. But the voter's not crazy. Rutte III is way beyond its expiration date. Whatever the outcome of this debate, I predict that the end of this cabinet is near. Just a moment and the Netherlands can say: "Rutte, Mark Rutte? I have no active memory of that man." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr. Chairman. Somewhere in a distant past, there once was an experienced great visor in a country far away, called a prime minister. To enjoy his retirement, he proposed to appoint a talented young man as his successor. The young man had made a career as a spear and stood out because of his rhetoric, but mainly because of his benign smile. This new and ambitious grand visor did have his doubts, so he asked the experienced grand visor for advice. The former Grand Vizier gave him three numbered envelopes and said: if you have a hard time, you have to open one of the envelopes. The new grand visor took the envelopes and made a flying start. He forged a coalition with his former archrivals and made policies in which part of the population licked his fingers. Everything seemed good until the state treasury went empty. We had to cut back. The noises among the population began to sound louder and louder at court. The grand visor thought of the envelopes and decided to open the first envelope. "Make promises to the people, even if you can't keep them." The great visor took the advice to heart. He promised to give every resident a thousand gold pieces, not to send money to the Greeks, not to interfere with the mortgage interest deduction, not to raise the retirement age, not to increase the own risk, and so on. Soon the rest returned. The advice had worked truly, until there was again a mortar among the population and even at the court. In panic, the grand visor decided to open the second envelope. "Blame it on your predecessors. If that doesn't work, repeat that you have no memory of it." Well, think the grand visor, that's good advice, too. Afterwards, he had no memory of the memos about the dividend tax, the Teeven Deal, the lies of the Foreign Affairs visor, the support of his government to terrorist groups and also not to the civilian victims who fell in Hawija. Today he is going to get away with it, despite the fact that some of the opposition will be very critical about it. The grand visor will rule for a while, but there will come a day when he will have to open the third envelope. I'll tell you what's in there. "Your days as great visor are numbered; the day has come that you too must prepare three envelopes for your successor."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u47	I had hoped that Mr Öztürk would stand here and apologize for what he had said at the last debate. I see he's been fired by now, because he's here, but he's not speaking. In the meantime, 3,500 reports have been filed by military and non-military personnel. The unions have filed a report and there are generals who have filed a report. Does Mr Kuzu now distance himself from what Mr Öztürk said?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u48	This is a very easy way to distract from the debate. This debate is about how the government has dealt with the obligation to inform the Chamber. I can tell you, Mr Bosman, that Mr Öztürk has already said the necessary in his second term. And I indicated during a number of talk programmes that it was absolutely never the intention to accuse our people of anything, and I also said that they were facing a difficult task. I am not going to go into it for the rest, because it distracts us from what we are doing today, namely the obligation to inform the Chamber. There's been a report. We live in a rule of law. We look forward to this with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u49	A very bad answer. I think all those soldiers think it's a very bad answer. It is interesting that Mr Kuzu is now talking about distraction from what is at stake. His introduction of three minutes was absolutely not about what we are talking about. His first three minutes consisted of a story in which he says he thinks the cabinet should do something else. That wasn't about this subject. Mr Kuzu is now standing here expressing tough texts on the need to conduct this debate on the subject. Military people have been struck in their hearts by your colleague, saying that we will look forward to the trial. The Germans have an excellent statement about this and that is zum Kotzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u50	I leave those words and qualifications to Mr Bosman. He has to do what he can't resist, whether it's vomit or not. What we agreed is that I am speaking as chairman of the political group. A number of other political parties have also opted for this. So that has nothing to do with the degradation of Mr Öztürk or something. He is a valuable spokesman for us in a number of areas, including the Defense Department. You cross swords with him at regular intervals. Again, on the point that our soldiers are being called for anything: that was absolutely not our intention. During the debate, Mr Öztürk also indicated that we are prepared to discuss this. The door of DENK is still wide open. We're willing to go over all those soldiers one by one to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr Kuzu now has the stage. In the debates of the previous debate there are the most scandalous things that Mr Kuzu has said. You have the stage now. Why wait? Why don't you just say, guys, I'm sorry; I really did this "royalty" wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u52	Once again, it was absolutely not Mr Öztürk's intention or DENK's intention to mock military forces. I say to people who have taken offense to this: I apologise for that. I would like to make it quite clear once again that DENK's door is wide open to talking to all those people. You can't think that's enough, but that's what I'm saying here. I think that is a very clear message. The door is wide open to people who are hurt. We are happy to enter into the conversation with them to explain exactly what we meant by that. Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to say quite emphatically: what a simple and cheap trick to distract from what it really is about. I think a lot of people realize that that's how the VVD tries to save her ass. Mr. Chairman. For years the victims of the Dutch military action in Hawija have been referred to the cover-up in The Hague. Not one, not two, but at least three ministers in the Rutte II cabinet have shown error in informing the Chamber. The latest lie is that this Prime Minister would have no memory of being informed about civilian casualties. That is total, but totally unbelievable. Former Minister Hennis says he's been briefed. His ministry has been briefed at several SME meetings. He was able to take the decision lists. Another unbelievable no memory trick by Rutte, which seems to be selective dementia. Mr. Chairman. More important than the question of who knew what at what point, the question is why the Prime Minister and all the other members of government involved when they knew about this did not have the empathy and sense of responsibility to ask through. With 74 civilian casualties, there's a ringing bell, even if the message isn't brought out alarmingly? The reports of 74 civilian casualties just went into the drawer. Our Prime Minister is responsible for that. He is ultimately responsible for a cabinet in which directors deliberately lied to the Chamber and in which civilian victims were referred to the cover-up. People in the Netherlands are pricking through this. Because even if the lie is so fast, the VVD knows the rest of the expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. What happened in the various ministries involved after the attack on Hawija? We have now received further answers from the Minister. The big question was: who knew at what time how many civilian casualties had occurred? Minister Bijleveld reported at the beginning of November that her predecessor misinformed the Chamber about this bombing. That's bad enough in itself. But if there are any other rulers who would have known about this, then that raises further questions. Honestly, as far as I'm concerned, the last letter shows that this line of thinking is a dead end. The letter gives a different picture, namely of a ministry that wanted to report the consequences of the attack, but certainly did not want to give the impression that something serious was going on. Also in the last letter we read that nothing alarming has been reported. The possible number of civilian casualties that have been around since the beginning has never been mentioned. This only happened after the recent reporting of the NIS. That's a sign. The key question as far as the Christian Union is concerned is therefore: how and why did it decide to misinformed the Chamber on 23 June? I am glad that the Minister has made it clear that this has happened. But I also want to know how that happened. Somewhere in the department someone has invented to deny that the Netherlands was involved in an air strike involving civilian casualties. Or it was miswritten by a minister by mistake, but that seems very unlikely to me. During the previous debate, I wanted to know from the Minister how this error was put in the letter. The Minister said she didn't know that. I ask this Minister once again: how could that mistake, that lie, have been in this letter? I note, then, that the Department of Defense tends to conceal, conceal and, perhaps stupidly, deny unfavorable news. Defence has a long tradition in that respect: the culture of silence about everything that can go wrong. I refer to the Spijkers affair, to the recent examples of the treatment of the whistleblower at Eindhoven Airport, and also to the terrible mortar accident in Mali and the inspection report on it that has been on the previous minister's desk for months. Is that wrong reflex to keep bad news from now on a culture that Defense wants to distance itself from? I'd like to hear from the Minister how she sees this. Why do we need to hear things in the media first? Why do WOB requests have to be made before bad news from the Defense Department comes out? How is this Secretary of Defense going to prevent that? Mr. Chairman. I understand that information on ongoing missions is confidential and that sometimes it is not useful to inform the Chamber about this. But it could be in a confidential way. Previously, the Chamber was also informed confidentially, but not about these details. Is the Minister prepared to report to the Chamber confidentially in cases where there is bad news, but it might not be wise for the mission to report it to the public? Mr. Chairman. The Minister admits greater transparency in the case of civilian casualties; she also agrees with the Chamber. But is the Minister also prepared to be transparent in other situations, where the bad news of the Defense Department is concerned? And what lessons does the Minister draw from this course of events? Can the Minister get that straight? Mr. Chairman. Finally, compensation for the next of kin. A motion has been passed on that. In this context, it is obvious to investigate the actual number of victims and the damage done to the community. We can do that now. ISIS is no longer there, so you can go there. Is the Minister prepared to undertake this investigation as well? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr. Chairman. Our women and men of the Dutch armed forces contribute with 81 partners to the fight against ISIS. With our F-16s, we bombed specific IS-bulbs and gave air support to ground troops. Our kites are known as the best in the world. When they bomb somewhere in the world, they do so with the most precision, which rarely causes civilian casualties. With Hawija, the unintended effect of a well-executed bombardment, due to incomplete target information from external parties, was so serious as to have cost this civilian life. That is and remains terrible for the victims, the next of kin and also for the kites. The Dutch kites are not to blame. The hit target was an IS bomb factory with which IS intended to sow death and destruction. Only the amount of explosives stored turned out to be different from the information provided to our armed forces. Just then, if things go wrong, at those few moments, which several times the effect goes differently than intended, the Ministry must communicate properly. Then the Minister must ensure that the necessary information comes up. Then it's up to the Ministry. That's exactly what didn't happen. We had a whole debate on this three weeks ago. The Minister then apologized for misinformed the Chamber in 2015. It was good that an apology was made for that. The Chamber then gave a ruling and the Minister started work. The Minister has sent an extensive letter. The cabinet has carefully investigated who knew what was what when, and what was done or not done. It gives a good picture to look back critically; a good picture to draw lessons from. On Monday 21 November, the Chamber will receive a letter from the Minister giving further answers to questions about the process. In this we see in black and white that the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Defence, Justice and Security, and General Affairs have been informed. That's very good, too. It's our job to control that from a state point of view. On 4 June, the regular steering group SME, Missions and Operations Steering Group, will be held with these ministries. There was talk of the bombing with the secondary explosions. It has also been said that further investigation is under way into collateral damage and civilian casualties. On 9 June, the Minister of Defence will be briefed. The information is then obtained through the first information from CENTCOM, which has not yet completed the investigation. On 15 June of that year, 2015, the report will be ready. It is then indicated that further research is needed into the targeting process. That is also right, because the Dutch pilots did not receive full information about this and already saw that there were secondary explosions during the mission. On 22 January 2016, further investigation will also be carried out. Then it turns out that the process has gone well and that it is likely that civilian casualties have occurred. At that time, the Ministry was informed by CENTCOM that they considered the investigation into civilian casualties closed. The question of the CDA is: why didn't the Ministry call for additional research? No final report has been made either. Why didn't the DOD find out until recently? The investigation by the Ministry itself, which examined whether war law had been complied with, found that the trial had been conducted correctly on 26 May. The D.A.'s office finds after the investigation that no criminal offences have taken place. The Ministry then says: Numbers of potential civilian casualties were not mentioned, as the possible numbers could not be verified. That is what the Minister writes, and that is, of course, true. But this administrative logic does not really fit in with what we stand for in the Netherlands when it comes to civilian casualties. I understand very well, the CDA also understands very well, that in the heat of battle you have to check the facts first and that you are dealing with the targeting process. But what the CDA finds strange is that at a later stage no one in the ministry thought: will we not even investigate what happened to the civilian victims? The targeting process has been examined three times; there was only one policy investigation in the case of civilian casualties. The Minister will draw lessons. Internal communication needs to be improved, more information on the first deployment period is given retroactively, a new standard for information to the Chamber in the case of armed deployment will be introduced and sufficient capacity will be created to monitor cases of civilian deaths. I'm rounding up. We ask the Minister whether there is also a list of actions and a timeline. Because they are desirable and very much needed. In terms of time, I must leave it at that. I will come back to the rest in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. War is ugly. As far as D66 is concerned, military intervention is never the first option. But when it comes to that, the details matter. Carefulness, credibility and accountability are the foundations on which this house should be built. D66 therefore attaches great importance to this, especially when it is a matter of life and death. Mr. Chairman. How could it have happened that not a day after the air attack the international media was full of reports about civilian casualties, the Red Cross informed the State Department about civilian deaths and Airwars, the UN and CENTCOM found that possible civilian casualties had occurred, but communication in different departments went so badly that the Chamber was misinformed twice, without an alarm ring anywhere? Why didn't the relevant ministries ring the bell when the then Secretary of Defense said that civilian deaths were immediately investigated by the coalition, but that until then this hadn't been the case? How can it be that more than four years later the number of civilian casualties is still uncertain? Does the Minister agree with me that not only the Dutch citizens but also the victims, the relatives and the community in Hawija have the right to know exactly what has happened and how many civilian casualties have occurred? The Netherlands has a moral duty to map this as closely as possible, not because it is unlawful, but because public transparency and accountability of civilian victims are fundamental in a democracy and a rule of law. D66 therefore wants the Netherlands to investigate civilian casualties in Hawija. The security situation makes this possible. The Netherlands must answer to the next of kin about what has happened, be transparent about what has been done wrong and learn lessons for the future. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution to that effect in the second term. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Minister of Defence is going to give more openness in future air action. It is a good thing that by default the Chamber is kept confidential about investigations into potential civilian casualties. What that means for the Chamber, I'll come back in my second term. It sounds good in itself to be informed confidentially, but if you, as a people's representative, have no instruments, no reports and no opportunities to question the minister with documents, then what happens to Parliament sounds very nice, but then it is nothing, because you cannot do your controlling job properly. Mr. Chairman. Many questions after the debate were answered in the letter. It is clear to us that the Secretary of Defense is ultimately responsible. She took that responsibility, too. But it is also obvious that this debate did not go well. I would actually like to hear from the Minister to what extent she can reflect back on that. Why was all that so clumsy? Mr. Chairman. Then the questions for our Prime Minister. What can the Prime Minister remember about the conversation with then Minister Hennis? What was the Prime Minister's reaction when he was told to investigate further whether civilian deaths occurred? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that he should have asked questions at the time? I would like to remind the Prime Minister of the conclusions of the Davids Commission, specifically of a small but relevant chapter on leadership and coordination by the Prime Minister. This is a different context, but it is relevant. At the time, the Prime Minister did not interfere sufficiently with the Iraq issue. But at the moment when international politics touch domestic politics or a terrorist threat, the responsibility lies with the Prime Minister. My question is therefore how the Prime Minister sees his role in the light of these conclusions and recommendations. The same applies to his ministry of AZ. If these conclusions and recommendations have not been followed up so far, to what extent is he prepared to do so in the future? Is he also willing to describe the process of how it should be described to the Chamber after describing where it all went wrong? The Secretary of Defense calls you and you say, "Oh, it's annoying indeed. I want to be reported on that." I want you to make a genuine attempt to explain to us as a Chamber what is happening or has not happened in your world and how you would feel it should be done. Mr President, I will conclude. As D66, we have asked several times about the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like the Minister to send the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Chamber, as requested earlier. I can see in the chair that I have to finish, Mr President, and I'm sure as hell going to. It has been an important file for D66 and for the SP for years. For years, we have advocated greater transparency. Today's debate is also important for us to take real steps and to become a responsible country as the Netherlands when it comes to military missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mrs Belhaj, please stand still for a moment, because Mr Wilders is at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u60	I just heard Mrs Belhaj from the D66 Group say that she thinks that I commend her for her honesty and that Minister Bijleveld has done it awkwardly. Those were literally her words. The Minister made the debate awkward last time. And Mrs Belhaj asked Minister Bijleveld, who, according to D66, operated awkwardly during the previous debate, to reflect on this. May I ask what specific part you found clumsy? How would you like the Minister to reflect? What is your wish? What are you hoping for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u61	I think it is important for the Minister to have a chance to reflect back on his own performances. As D66, we would have asked for that fact story. I think it was very important for the debate to show that a great deal was not really sorted out. That's how I saw the minister. She tried to answer the Chamber with the information that was there, but we didn't really get all the answers to all the questions we had. And that's what it's really about. Of course, as a Chamber, we said that we wanted that facts, but we also wanted a debate quickly. I think that's relevant to me. Does the unrest in the debate have to do with the fact that there was not enough time to get the right facts on the table, or has that had anything else to do with it? I think it is a very mature question, especially for this Parliament, to give the Minister the opportunity to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u62	Sure, sure. It's very interesting. Was she running out of time or was there something else going on? But you use the word "clumsy." You literally used the word "clumsy." You said the Secretary of Defense of the CDA, yet member of the coalition just like your party's operation was clumsy. I was just wondering which part of Mrs Bijleveld's performance you thought was most awkward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u63	That's a very specific question. In that case, the two of us would have to look back on the whole debate. I do say it, and I say it for a reason. Many people have concluded that it was an unpleasant debate at certain times. As far as I am concerned, it is specifically about the fact that the Minister was not able to give answers to the questions that we in the Chamber considered very necessary in order to conclude exactly what happened. Your question as to what the time is, I'm just not going to answer it. I think it's important that we just put this down in an adult way. It is up to the Minister whether she wants to say something about it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mrs. Belhaj's backtracking a little bit now. I understand that too, because of course this says a lot about the atmosphere in the coalition. First of all, Mr De Groot's name was that good man, I believe during the nitrogen debate that this 130 km/h to 100 km/h was just an amuse of what awaits the VVD. I remember that well, because I did that debate myself. I haven't seen so many journalists here in the last few months, so hot is this debate. And now, in this debate, you are simply saying that the Secretary of Defense, Mrs Bijleveld, was operating awkwardly. Again, I agree with you, but you won't last long with this cabinet if you do. You're taunting them. You're messing with them. You're pulling the blood under their fingernails. And you just say here in the Chamber: there she is, that minister; clumsy! Just reflect a little bit. This is bread robberies. You're making us redundant as an opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u65	What I'm trying to do is I think everyone is trying to do that, especially in debates like this, because I want to find out what happened there. That is why I just referred to it, despite the fact that I had no time left, that the SP and D66 have been wanting to raise this issue for years. For years we were not given it, not even by your party, to deal seriously with this issue in the Chamber. You're turning this into a whole opposition coalition thingy. I think that is a bit of a pity, because this is simply not the subject in which you want to raise it. This is where people died. This is about war. This is about soldiers who, to their honour and conscience, have wanted to do their job. This is about the responsibility that the Netherlands has wanted to take for thousands of people who have been slaughtered by ISIS. They wanted to save them. I think these are serious issues that deserve serious attention. That's more than the attention you're paying right now. If I can understand now that Mr Wilders and the PVV are of such importance, then I can also assume that the PVV, a large group which has been relatively absent in the past year, will also be present to help us to question the cabinet critically on all the issues that have to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. Given the atrocities of IS and the risks to Europe, the fight against ISIS, which our F-16s have participated in since October 2014, is vital. Our Air Force operates extremely carefully and professionally. And yet civilian deaths, as in Hawija, can never be ruled out 100%, especially since the IS-Mafia uses innocent women and children as a living shield. Mr. Chairman. On 5 November, this Chamber discussed with the Minister of Defence the lack of information on civilian deaths in the Chamber. Among other things, these were the following questions. Why is it that after the end of the mission on 31 December 2018 we waited so long to inform the Chamber? Why didn't that information come up until after the investigation of NOS and NRC? And did the Minister really not know that the Chamber had not been informed until Friday, November 1st? These were and his serious questions, but there were also answers on that night. For the SGP, it was and is crucial that we be properly informed from now on. We have to be able to rely on that. That calls for a cultural change in the department. In fact, because the Minister gave us the confidence to take this seriously and to take it seriously, we did not support the motion of censure. Once again, I ask the Minister of Defence if she is going to work on this cultural change and on this better information provision. Mr. Chairman. The letter of 25 November on the arms deployment in Hawija deals, among other things, with the way in which information about Hawija is shared by and between the departments concerned, including within the official Steering Group Missions and Operations. Does the Minister of Defence share the view that this steering committee is not functioning optimally? And is intervention necessary here, too? Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks the question has also been raised about the information position of our Prime Minister, who was already Prime Minister during the drama in Hawija. I have two questions for him. The first question. When did he know about the large number of civilian casualties in Hawija? The second question. When was he aware of not informing the Chamber or not informing the Chamber correctly? Was this, like the Minister of Defense, not until November 1st this year, or was it before? Mr. Chairman. I would like to receive a crystal clear answer from the Prime Minister to these two questions and therefore no answer in the vein of: I do not have an active reminder of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Chairman. We were here on 5 November. Then we talked about the same sad occasion as today, namely the civilian casualties that may have been caused by air strikes by Dutch F-16s at a bomb factory in Hawija. Let me once again point out that we, as politicians, are sending men and women to areas where there is war, where there is armed violence, where there is lawlessness and where terrorism has its roots. The VVD is extremely grateful to men and women for their commitment. I would like to stress once again that when military personnel carry out their work in a manner of conscience, regardless of the outcome, they deserve our all respect and appreciation. If mistakes have been made, the Public Prosecutor's Office is present to review all efforts and possibly to investigate them further and possibly prosecute them. That's not what happened in any of the cases. There's nothing wrong with our military, but there's nothing to blame. I would therefore like to stress that the responsibility for all the consequences of the deployment of the armed forces lies with us, the politics and the Minister of Defence in particular. No military should be individually addressed to the outcome of his or her armed engagement if he or she has committed that commitment to his or her conscience. Does the Prime Minister and the Minister agree with me? The debate on 5 November was on the provision of information to the Chamber. The very brief facts that were given at that time have already given rise to further questions. Now there's a more extensive letter. The questions have not yet been resolved, because it remains unclear to this day how many victims have been killed. Unfortunately, it is in English, but on June 5, two days after the attack, the commander of the Combined Forces Air Component, Lieutenant General Hesterman, said: "So we haven't seen any evidence of civil casualties so far." The reports mention different numbers, but these are based on public sources. And those numbers are quite different, from 50 civilian casualties to 100 militants, including the local ISIS police chief. The Minister's reply to further questions on the arms deployment in Hawija also makes it clear that there is no figure for the number of civilian casualties in particular. Nevertheless, in the previous debate, the Minister of Defence stated: "The publications of the NOS and the NRC concerned the 70 civilian casualties that have been suffered. We were working with each other all the time to see if we could make that public." However, in the answer given by the Minister to the further questions on the arms deployment in Hawija, it became clear to me once again that there is no figure for the number of civilian casualties in particular. Isn't it significant to the whole situation that the number of civilian casualties cannot be determined? The attack was targeted at a bomb factory in the middle of an IS area. Victims are often buried there within 24 hours. There's no record of who lives where, with whom and with how many. Local IS fighters use misinformation to colour the consequences. Does the Minister agree with me that determining how many victims have actually been killed is an impossible task? Based on the different sources, there was very much not clear. When we talk about doing further research, I can imagine that the investigation will be left to the Minister concerned. I fully agree with the statement made by Mr Asscher of the Labour Party, who, like no other, knows how it works in ministries. I quote: "It's quite a difference whether someone has said 'we're investigating something' or that's said: "Just sit down, because I have to tell you something; something really bad may have happened." When I read the statement, I see reason to believe that the first was the case. That the investigation was necessary is correct, because there was still a lot of uncertainty. In that investigation, the central American command plays an important role. They are the collectors of all information regarding the deployment and the consequences of that deployment. The reports are therefore very important. But they too rely on public sources, which are often unverifiable. Is it true that the CENTCOM investigations focused on the legality of the targeting, the selection of the target, and not so much on the number of civilian casualties that had fallen? Did CENTCOM base itself on public sources such as Airwars when calling the victims? How can the Minister explain the determination of Colonel Ryan, who answered questions from NRC and NOS regarding the victims of Hawija, in which this American colonel spoke about 70 civilian casualties? Did this colonel have any other information? In conclusion, Mr President. The information to the Chamber from the Ministry is suboptimal, to put it mildly. The Secretary of Defense is responsible for that. It is good to read in the letter that the Minister will improve information and transparency. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you. Then... Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u71	Let's assume for a moment that we go along with the line that the VVD has now turned off and that runs as follows. The former VVD Minister Hennis says: I did inform, but it was not alarming. We know that the word "citizens" did fall there. Besides, that was all in the foreign media. And the Prime Minister doesn't know it all so well anymore. If we believe that line, I'd like to ask the VVD the following. In the previous debate, the VVD rightly asked how good the political antenna was at the Ministry of Defence. But if we have to believe this line, the VVD must ask itself how good the Prime Minister's antenna is? It's about moral responsibility. It's about the realization that we're flying there and that civilian casualties have occurred. And not be interested in what exactly happened there? That's the story we have to believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u72	Now Mrs. Ouwehand says some things... "Don't be interested" is really an allusion to something that I don't think Mrs Ouwehand can harden. That is unwise, we should not do that; the story is too serious for that too. As I said, there was a lot of confusion. Of course, we are looking into what needs to be explored further. I would like to follow Mr Asscher's line. A trade minister says something's happened. We've had an attack. We always do an after action report and it might be a little bigger than we thought. So we're doing an investigation. If a trade minister points that out, I'm assuming that that trade minister is able to do what she has to do. I imagine that's how you feel as Prime Minister, but well, I'm not the Prime Minister; maybe the Prime Minister himself can answer that. I can understand why he feels that way, because you have trade ministers for that. They are important to find out the case at a detailed level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u73	Just so we're clear, I don't think that's what happened when we have to believe out of the pieces. Yes, I did inform, but not alarming. The Prime Minister says: yes, I don't really know anymore. But that's what the VVD wants us to believe. If so, if so, I would point out to the VVD that the Prime Minister also has a moral responsibility. He's gotta be scared shitless, right? He has tried to sell this mission to the Chamber as strictly necessary and necessary to protect citizens. When he hears in foreign media about civilian casualties and years later he stops telling the story that he doesn't really know if he's been informed about them, is there something wrong with the Prime Minister's antenna that delivered the VVD, if we have to follow this line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u74	No. Once again, careful consideration is being made, including on follow-up. If you look at the continuation of the mission, those choices are based on the goals you want to achieve, the consideration you make in it. That's the responsibility. That there is a great deal of confusion, again I have repeated it and I would like to read it out again in all the files that it is not always clear and clear what has happened. We're still trying to figure out exactly what happened. You give that responsibility to a trade minister. It sounds very cynical, but it was a war there. Our people, our soldiers, have also ensured that many victims have not fallen. Let us stress this once again, because that is essential. They're making it look like we've been trying to sell a mission. Of course not. That would be very cynical to all those people saved on that mountain in Sinjar. That would be very cynical to all those people saved from ISIS. These are things with which, when we look at ourselves as a Chamber, we are failing the military, but we are also failing the decision-making process in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u75	Finally. "Don't get me started on cynicism," I'd like to say. But I hear here that the VVD is truly fine with the fact that a Prime Minister, when he hears that there may have been civilian deaths, a Prime Minister who can see on television, in the foreign media, that this is probably true in a mission area where the Netherlands is flying, does not say: "Keep me informed, because I am very sorry about this. We went there to protect citizens and now this may have happened as a result of the Dutch commitment. Keep me informed, because I want to know about the hat and the edge." The Prime Minister did not do so according to the line we should believe from the VVD. And the VVD doesn't think that's a problem either. No moral problem, no responsibility problem. Well, that's something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u76	No. That's what the standard is for, the SMEs. They're just kept there, the information is just exchanged there. This responsibility lies with trade ministers. That's a hard one to understand for someone who seems to have never had government responsibility. But that's what trade ministers are for. They just have a responsibility in that. They'll fill that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u78	It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has participated in a war against ISIS, with deaths and sometimes civilian deaths. We all know by now that everyone was aware of this, Minister Hennis and Prime Minister Rutte. Not of the exact number, but of the fact that civilian deaths have occurred at some point. We also know that the protocol requires that we do not make any announcements about this in the interests of our military during an operation. And that is good; security is more than transparency. But the mistake that was made was the letter of 23 June 2015, in which the Chamber was misinformed. There was no reason for this. I therefore assume that this error has not been deliberated. The question is, of course, how this could have happened. Misinformation of the Chamber was reported in the NRC on 20 October 2019. According to Minister Bijleveld, she did not know this until Friday 1 November 2019 and that is at least strange. However, also for Minister Bijleveld there is no reason to lie about this, so I believe her when she says that she was not informed until Friday 1 November. In addition, she apologized for misinformation of the Chamber. Normally that's the end of the matter for this minister. The next question is whether the Prime Minister already knew about the wrong letter of 23 June 2015 in relation to the fact that civilian deaths had indeed occurred. He denied that and I see no reason not to believe that. I don't see any motive either. But in abundance, this question must be put once more definitively. Before Friday 1 November 2019, did the Prime Minister know about the wrong letter of 23 June 2015? And did he know this was in violation of the truth? I also find it annoying that in the previous debate and in the last letter from the Minister, officials are speculated, and I quote: 'It is likely that the most concerned ministries have been informed about the existence of the investigation'. This unduly undermines the credibility of the persons in question. The letter of 25 November states that the Prime Minister is likely to have been informed. What do you mean "probably" and what exactly? This isn't a game Cluedo. These important matters need to be clearly and in writing. I believe that transparency at such a time is not the problem, but the internal organisation. My final question, and then I will conclude: can the Minister guarantee me that the internal organisation will be professionalised in such a way that these matters will now be recorded in writing? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you, Mr President. What do people think when they watch this debate tonight? What do they feel when they realize that these rulers are in charge of this country, that these rulers make all important decisions, are not alarmed about civilian deaths and amnesia? People have a democratic rule of law such as our right to trust the government, that trade ministers responsible for government policy are therefore reliable, that the hundreds of officials and personal assistants of the rulers are so aware of the urgency of informing the rulers of the statements and answers to questions of their predecessors, that reliability is guaranteed. They really care that everyone reminds each other of the facts, the investigations and the statements when memory fails to guarantee the reliability of the cabinet. But what do people see? Sacrificed lives, civilian casualties. How much? Is it 70, 170? No one in this cabinet can tell. No one was alarmed. It was only when journalists published deep research that there was a panic in the Rutte III house. Surely it cannot be explained that a ministerial responsibility is being thrown over as if it is a hot potato, that rulers continue to point at each other, lie and keep turning to keep themselves out of the wind and throw others in front of the bus? Weeks needed the cabinet to spin the stakes of this debate. People want the truth, people have a right to reliability, but people get lies. No wonder people in this country have completely lost faith in politics. Unreliable rulers must not remain seated. They have to leave. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr. Chairman, colleagues. This debate is not just about civilian deaths in Iraq. In fact, the civilian deaths, however terrible, are the cause for the actual discussion, the reliability of the Prime Minister, the reliability of our government. Our democracy can only function if the Prime Minister can be trusted, if ministers speak the truth against the Chamber. I think we all agree on that, or at least you can't let it go in public. You probably don't care so much about that honesty in your heart, but most cartel members will have to keep up appearances towards the media and the public. A lie is the absolute sin of parliamentary democracy. That is why the government is committed to pretending that it was sloppy that the Chamber was not properly informed, that the Ministry gave the impression that there was not so much going on, that the army leadership gave the impression that there was not so much going on, that, in short, there was no reason to know everything that had happened there. That is the essence of what we are talking about here. It all comes down to the period of June 2015, for a few weeks in which a number of events follow each other quickly. Let's take a quick look at the facts. 19 June 2015. Ministers Koenders, Ploumen and Hennis send a letter stating that the cabinet intends to extend the mission against ISIS until at least October 2016. 23 June 2015, four days later. The same ministers said in a joint letter: "As far as is currently known, there has been no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties from air strikes in Iraq." So that's June 23, 2015. Both letters were scheduled for the committee meeting of 30 June 2015, another week later, where the extension of the mission was scheduled, while on 4 and 5 June, three weeks earlier, at least Minister Hennis and Minister Koenders heard that further investigation, as it is currently called, was needed into potential civilian deaths in the air strikes. In the letter we received the day before yesterday, we can read: "In the Missions and Operations Steering Group of 4 June 2015, a coalition attack carried out by the Netherlands on a vehicleborne IED facility near Kirkuk, that there were secondary explosions, that the targeting process had been carefully completed and that Iraqi media reported positively on the action and mentioned the possibility of possible civilian casualties." So on 4 June 2015, it was already clear that civilian casualties might have occurred. Now the punch line, exactly what Mr. Bosman just said, is the question of how the minister would have been informed. Then it's: we need to investigate? Or has it been: "Guys, we have destroyed an entire village. We have thrown a bomb on a powder factory and as a result a huge crater, a huge plain, has emerged." That's the big question. That is the question that we must discuss with each other in all honesty tonight. What information exactly was there accessible? How likely is it, in seriousness, that you bomb an entire village?That's what this is all about: an entire village, hundreds of houses, and that's when you think: mwoah, we might have to look into that, mwoah, we'll see about that? I think the two things that come together here are a tuxedo gun, totally unlikely. One. The cabinet wanted to extend that mission on 30 June, so they had to do what they could to keep out of the news that civilian casualties had occurred. It had to be, otherwise it wouldn't be possible to extend that mission. 70 people dead, an entire village flattened, a total military miss; they had to keep that out of the news at all costs. So what do they do? They're making up some story: there's talk about it, we're going to look for what might have happened. That lie is starting to stink. That's getting more and more unbelievable. Rutte is starting to spin, and the minister: oh, I don't remember either. Hennis thinks, "You know what, I still have a little score to settle. I'm gonna go get a book. Yeah, I probably did inform him. Oh, oh, oh, And now the big question is: does the cabinet still have the support of the coalition parties in the Chamber? Is it possible for the cartel parties to keep up appearances of honesty? Can they keep pretending the truth matters here? It's our job as an opposition tonight to make it clear that they knew exactly what was going on, that they've been lying for years because they wanted to extend that mission and that they thought they could get away with it. Tonight we're going to bring the truth to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr Baudet is very vocal. Would the number of civilian casualties have been decided for Mr Baudet to extend the mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u86	That question is not at all on the agenda. The point is that the Court should be able to decide on this on the basis of information supplied in truth. That is what is under discussion here. Those were the opening lines of my speech. It is not at the moment at all about what the decision would have been if the Chamber had, by the way, at that time I had not known what we now know. That's not what this is about. It's just one question: can this government still be trusted? Can we still take our role as the government's controller seriously if we take the facts seriously in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr Baudet, however, makes a link between what the cabinet intended to do, namely to extend the mission, and the information that should be available, as if there were a relationship between it, otherwise the mission would not go through. It seems that Mr Baudet is making that connection. So I would like to hear from Mr Baudet whether he is making that connection himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u88	I see a motive. I see a very clear, very good reason for the cabinet to lie about this, in order to avoid this from sight. After all, they were dead before that committee meeting of 30 June. They knew that if that were to be in the news, a very big pressure would come on the cabinet to stop that mission. That is why they did not want to tell us what they knew of course. Of course they knew this. I can see it right in front of me. I understand how that balancing process went. I believe that tonight the Chamber should stand for its own relevance in the rule of law. We must demand, we must simply force, that we be taken seriously. If things like this come to light, we can't let that pass...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u90	...and then we can't say, oh, the Minister has promised to get better. What a load of crap! What a bunch of crap!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u91	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u92	What Mr Baudet says makes it very cynical. In principle, he does explain that relationship, making it an extension of a mission into a loss and profit account for civilian victims. That's really bad. That's not appropriate. You do this on the basis of the goals you set yourself and not in the way Mr Baudet is now manifesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u93	That is a remark which is absolutely irrelevant to what I have said. I did not comment on what we would have found if we had been in the Chamber at that time, whether or not acceptable civilian targets, civilian victims and so on. I say that this is about the integrity of our democracy. If we allow a government to run for four years and simply lie completely to the Chamber and inform it incompletely, then we are in the process of abolishing ourselves. Then we are in the process of putting democracy completely aside. Then we're in the middle of making a joke of our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr Baudet sees a motive...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u95	I'm not a colleague. I'm a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u97	We are not colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr Van Helvert has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr Baudet sees a motive for the cabinet not to share the information with each other, for fear that they should have shared it in the committee meeting with the Chamber. Well, that would actually be a very nice motive and that also sounds very good. There's only one. Suppose they had shared everything that information wasn't there, by the way, but let's say that there was a complete report with exactly how many civilian deaths there were. Suppose that was on the table and they shared it with all the cabinet members, with all of them. Even then, the policy of standing was that you can agree with it or not, and Mrs Bijleveld also wants to change that policy that they would not share with the Chamber on an ongoing mission about civilian deaths. So the motive you think you're seeing isn't there. That's why I think it's a good idea for you to reflect on that. Even if every cabinet member had known, nothing had been shared with the Chamber. So I would like to ask Mr Baudet whether, now that he knows that his motive is wrong, he might see that no information could be shared because no report was available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mr Van Helvert has shown that he does not have his constitutional right in order on two points. First of all, he seems to think that MPs are each other's colleagues. I have never had colleagues in my life and I have no intention of ever having colleagues. We're colleagues. We are not colleagues; we are colleagues. We're not friends of each other. The cartel parties may be, but we're not. We're not part of the same cabal. We're colleagues. We're individual. That's why I'm critical of you and everyone here. I'm independent. I'm autonomous. I am a Member of Parliament and we are colleagues, not colleagues. The second point on which he seems to be completely wrong is the letter of 23 June. That letter was signed by the Minister at the time. It says: "As far as is currently known, there has been no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties from air strikes in Iraq." Whatever the policy is, it's in that letter. So that's a lie. It's completely unlikely that that was true. They knew they'd knocked down a whole village.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u101	What my colleague is saying now is exactly what we had the debate on three weeks ago. The Minister has apologized for informing the error. The Minister said 'as far as we know there are no civilian deaths' when the Minister should have said 'we do not make any announcements about civilian deaths'. That's what the whole debate was about. Because the policy was, and still is, even if the Minister may want to change something about it, that you do not make any announcements about it. The crux of the matter is that the Minister of Defence said so wrong in June 2015. But the policy is that we don't share anything with the Chamber on-going mission, which is also known. You can't agree with that, but then we have to change the policy. You can't say that the minister has withheld something, when she's actually doing nothing but follow the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u102	I can only say that another attempt is being made here to cover it all up again. You have a whole story about standing policy, about the agreements that have been made and things that we may want to change now. The whole way we take it here in a fog of collegiality... Again, it's very simple. Standing policy or no standing policy, at the time when there is a structural failure to inform the House of Representatives properly, the House of Representatives must show its teeth whenever it happens, whether it is years later or at the time itself. That's what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u103	Now my colleague is starting to spin a bit. He actually knows very well that he's wrong. If a minister says 'this is the policy', if the cabinet approves that policy and if the Chamber also supports the policy, it is perfectly normal for you to implement that policy. In fact, if the minister didn't do that, we'd have a debate. At two moments, the Minister of Defence did that wrong in 2015. That is what we discussed, because the debate had not taken place. And now my colleague says that all this does not really have to be done, that it is different and that it is covered up. But I think it's clear that if you've made agreements on paper that we don't share information and if they're carried by the Chamber and the Cabinet, it's not a secret if you don't. Then it's a deal to keep. If my colleague Baudet says he doesn't agree with it and wants to change it, that's something else. Then we can have a new discussion. And then he says that the Minister has announced that she wants to change things in that transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u104	That's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u105	In another debate we will see that we find each other as fellow chamber members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u106	It's still funny, this confusion. The point remains very simple. Standing policy or not, whatever would be the case about standard operating procedures or whatever: a lie is and remains a lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u107	Short, Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Baudet is making the same point and we agree. It is not just about informing the Chamber, but also about informing the Council of Ministers by the Minister of Defence. Even if information could not have been shared with the Chamber for any reason, for example the security of the troops, which we also consider to be very important, that information should have been shared with the Council of Ministers, because a few days later the decision to extend the mission would have been taken. Does Mr Baudet agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u108	I totally agree with Mr Klaver, who I disagree with on some points. But today we are in complete agreement and we find each other in our shared disapproval of what has happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u109	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u110	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. For starters...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u112	Yes, first of all, Mr. Klaver is standing in front of the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yes, Mr President, I had asked for written information, prior to the first deadline, to know what consultations there have been between 2 June 2015 and 19 June 2015 on the extension of the mission and whether there has also been talk of civilian casualties at those times. I haven't seen it yet, so I'm asking for it now. Maybe I looked over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u114	When preparing the pieces for tonight, everything has been looked at very carefully. That's why it took a long time. State Department, Defense, General Affairs, everything. It was found that the issue of the civilian deaths in Hawija did not arise in the discussions on the extension. There is therefore no timeline to give up. I can give you a separate timeline on how we decided on this extension in the Chamber after that, but you won't be interested. In the context of the extension of the mission, no mention has been made of civilian deaths, possible civilian deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u115	Then perhaps the most explosive will come right to the start of the debate. How could you possibly decide on the extension of the mission without this information being available? If we look at the timeline now, we can see that the Secretary of Defense had the information that it would be dozens of deaths. The numbers ranged from 70 to 170. So that is not shared with the Council of Ministers! This means that the Council of Ministers has agreed to the extension without knowing about this information. My question to the Prime Minister is: did he not want to know this when this decision was taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u116	This fact, however serious, was not relevant to the extension. Why is that? Because when we knew we were going to do this difficult operation in this area, we also knew there was a risk of civilian deaths. The fact that there was at that time an investigation into possible civilian deaths following the attack on Hawija, the bombing of Hawija, was all shared according to normal procedures in the relevant committees. Mr Klaver's question was: did that play a role in the extension decision? My answer is that this has not played a role in the extension decision. And I understand that. I think that is perfectly justifiable and logical. It is not that, because at some point there may be civilian deaths... The current state of affairs is that there are most likely civilian deaths to be regretted, but we are not quite sure. The odds are that it is, given all the information we have. Anyway, on June 2 or 3 was that attack. This was discussed in the official steering committee on 4 June. That in itself is not part of an extension decision. We always knew there would be a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u117	I'll give you the floor in a minute. I also see Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet. The first deadline has already been reached, so I wanted to give the Prime Minister the floor to answer the questions raised in the first term. You're making a point about information. I really want to leave it at that, when it comes to that. Otherwise, I will give the Prime Minister the floor to answer all your questions first. Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u118	So there's obviously no information to share, because it wasn't available. We can discuss that later. This is quite relevant, so it seems to me that we can go into that at the moment. This was the most important question I actually had in my entire speech. Mr Rutte is now replying directly by saying that there was no such thing and that it was not relevant either. You are dealing with the order of this debate, but I would say that I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u119	I understand Mr Klaver, quite frankly, because that was the most important point in his speech and we do not agree. My response is: the facts are that this issue did not arise in the discussions on the extension. That was Mr Klaver's actual question. In that context, he also asked for a timeline. Then Mr Klaver asks a political question: shouldn't you have considered that? I get that question. My answer is no. It's always been the case that when we put this type of operation into operation, we knew there were risks of civilian deaths. That's what we've always shared with the Chamber. Whether civilian deaths had occurred was all investigated at that time. That there was a risk was always known. The suspicion that some now exist is that it may have been covered because it was not a good time for the extension decision. That's just not true. That's bullshit. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u120	The Prime Minister said on the day after the previous debate: I have no memory of whether this has been discussed with me. That, while there was an extension decision coming. If you're going to talk about an extension, I just can't imagine it. That's what this is about. It is not a question of whether this has been investigated. I have the timeline in front of me again. On 5 June it was already clear that civilian casualties had been suffered, and on 9 June also with the Minister of Defence. It wasn't just about the research that needed to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u121	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u122	The Prime Minister states that he didn't know if any of this had been discussed. The Prime Minister should have known about this. If you decide to extend a mission, you need all the information. What he is actually saying is that there can be so many civilian casualties, but that is never relevant to us for a decision on the extension of a mission. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u123	I'm saying two things. Firstly, I say that we have always known that there is a risk of civilian casualties in this type of mission. We are not trying to bring peace to Poland or Drenthe. It's an area with literally life-threatening situations. We have always known that we did everything we could to prevent civilian casualties. You can never guarantee a hundred percent that that won't happen. That's that point. In this way I come to my information position in response to all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u124	Before you go on with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u125	The question asked by Mr Klaver was: could you decide to extend it when you did not know exactly what happened to potential civilian casualties following the events earlier that month? The answer to that is absolutely yes. We have always known that there was a risk of civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u126	On that other point, the Prime Minister comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u127	Sure. But the Prime Minister is now pointing out that we are in a war. Everyone in this room knows that. We supported this mission. We also knew there could be civilian casualties. That's the risk if you go there with planes and start bombing. That's not the point at all. The point is that these civilian victims were present and that this knowledge was not present before a decision was taken. I think the Prime Minister is getting over that too easily. The Secretary of Defense didn't share the numbers that were already known at the time, so they couldn't be discussed in the Council of Ministers. The colleague of the PvdA states: as a coalition partner, we would have liked to know this, so that we could at least consider it. The Prime Minister is now saying: it doesn't matter if civilian casualties occur; we can make the decision anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u128	Given the operation that was going on at the time, the operation against ISIS, we have always said that there were risks, no matter how much it is to be regretted when civilian casualties occur. That was investigated at the time. At the moment, the situation is that they are very likely to have fallen, looking at the state of the investigation. The fact that they may be regrettable does not alter the relevance of the fight against ISIS. For this reason, the view I put forward here that the combination of these two facts at that time is not relevant to the decision to extend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u129	Now it's really breaking my clog. Not relevant? We've just been paged as a room. We've been lied to. We've been fooled. Not only did Minister Hennis inform the Chamber twice, but you and Mrs Hennis already knew on the 4th and 5th that it was likely that civilian deaths would have occurred. You knew that by her own pilots even on the 15th, when that "final provisional" version of CENTCOM came up. Two weeks later, the cabinet decides on the extension. What am I saying? Four days after the 15th. You don't talk about it when you know it and half the cabinet knows it. Mr Koenders of Foreign Affairs knew it. Mrs. Hennis of Defense knew. The Minister of Security and Justice knew it, and the Prime Minister knew it. You don't talk about it, you don't tell the Chamber. The Chamber agrees. The Chamber agrees without knowing. Whatever the outcome would have been if we had known is irrelevant. You withheld that information while you knew. That's what you've done to your confidence. Shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u130	This is bullshit. Mr Van Helvert explained this precisely during the debate with Mr Baudet. It is not the case that knowledge about whether or not civilian casualties could have been shared with the Chamber, because because of the safety of kites the protocol was at the time when this was not shared with the Chamber. Now it's different. Under special circumstances, things are shared confidentially. At that point, it wasn't. I understand Mr Klaver's addition to the debate on the interruption. He said: it is still interesting whether it was known in the Council of Ministers, regardless of the protocol with the Chamber. This could never have been shared with the Chamber. So that's bullshit. I understood Mr Klaver's question. I understand that politically. In reply to that, I would like to say what my view is: given the battle that was going on, this was not relevant to the extension decision in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u131	I've been talking about both of them. Like Mr Klaver, I also mentioned the Council of Ministers. This is unthinkable, while half the cabinet knew it. Because their officials were all in that meeting on the 4th of June. They all told their minister. Your representative was not there, but you were probably informed by Mrs Hennis yourself, or so she says. So you knew, half the Council of Ministers knew. It is therefore impossible for you, as a Council of Ministers, to have taken a decision without involving it. And it still can't, even if it's in a confidential briefing or whatever, that the Chamber hasn't been informed. You paged yourself and you paged us. That's unforgivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u132	No, this isn't right. With regard to the information position of the Chamber, exactly what was shared was recorded. This type of information was not shared with the Chamber for very good reasons. The question then arises as to whether this situation occurs in the run-up to the extension decision. It is my position and my view that in the fight against ISIS we always knew that there is a risk of civilian casualties. In itself, this was not relevant to the extension decision. What exactly I knew at the time, I came to speak in such a way. That's a very special point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u133	Two things. As I have just said, Mr Van Helvert's interruption to which the Prime Minister has just referred is completely out of the question. It is not about whether or not it would have been standing policy whether or not you say anything about it. It's about the Minister sharing a lie with the Chamber. Whether or not that would be contrary to a certain policy of standing to talk about certain things or not, the fact remains that it was just a lie. That is undisputed, no one denies it, not even by the coalition. Is sorry enough? Let's let the minister get away with that? That is my first point. My second point is: what exactly did you know about what was going on here? Did Hennis inform you or not? Is she right about what she just said in the newspaper about informing you? Or is she wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u134	Again. Mr Baudet's debate with Mr Helvert was an essential point. This is without prejudice to Mr Klaver's political addition, which would still raise the question of what to discuss with each other in the Council of Ministers. That's what my answer was about. But the information position of the Chamber could not be that the Chamber was informed about investigations into potential civilian casualties. That wasn't the system back then. Why didn't we? Because we didn't want to put our kites in danger. That's what protocols are for. In the meantime, transparency policy has been adapted to the future by the Minister, based on lessons learned. You can't say: I would've wanted that type of transparency back then. But even then, this wasn't shared. The only thing that would be shared in a confidential sense is to investigate potential civilian casualties. But that's confidential. That is the transparency policy now, but it was not there at the time. It couldn't have been. That's where it is. I'm here to talk about my information position. Mr Baudet will receive an answer to the question I knew. The question now is what exactly is going on with this extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u135	The fact is that several organisations have mentioned the fact that the Netherlands has been the least transparent about mentioning the number of civilian casualties. As far as I am concerned, this should play a very important role in balancing the extension of a mission. The Prime Minister is hiding behind procedural views here; it was acting on the procedures, et cetera. But then I really come to a very essential question, because he himself gave the example of Drenthe and Poland: what is a human life worth to you in Iraq, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u136	Every human life is worth a hell of a lot to me. But I am proud that our F-16 pilots have done important work to potentially keep thousands and thousands of people alive who could otherwise have been killed by those terrible ISIS fighters by the bombs they could have produced. So the respect that we all express here for our soldiers is quite right. You do 100% your best to prevent civilian casualties in the deployment of our military, but you cannot give 100% guarantee that that will never happen. In this case, CENTCOM's conclusion is that it is highly likely that civilian casualties have occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u137	With all due respect, again, these are a number of procedural considerations which the Prime Minister says were different from today four years ago. But it is also quite bizarre, because when we talk about civilian casualties, in particular, the families of the families affected have no message at all to the procedural arguments of the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister can now say that every human life is just as valuable to him, but with that procedural argument, he does show that he attaches less importance to what happened there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u138	That's bullshit. Where do you get that? That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u139	That's not bullshit at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u140	Total bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u141	It is simply very relevant that the Prime Minister makes a very clear statement on this point: it is very important that we take into account the indicator of the fall of a number of civilian casualties...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u142	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u143	... and at the moment that we see that it may get out of hand, we take this into account in the run-up to a decision for an extension. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u144	The question we are discussing here at the moment is whether at that time, that was the debate that took place between Van Helvert and Baudet............................................................................................................................................ I see Mr Kuzu shaking no, but that is my view on that part of the debate. Mr Kuzu may find that different. I hear Mr Kuzu speaking. Do you want to hear it or not, Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u145	Don't talk through it, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u146	Okay, I'll give you the answer. So I think that part of the debate between Van Helvert and Baudet was about the question: could the Chamber at that time have been informed? The answer is no. There are very good reasons for that. You do not want to put our military at risk by talking publicly about possible civilian casualties as a result of a Dutch F-16 deployment. That's why we didn't. Then the question is: what about in the cabinet? I understand Mr Klaver's political question. I answered that. Because we don't agree on that. That was a relevant political question about the Council of Ministers. I get that. But in the Chamber, that could never have been shared. That's just a fact. So that part at the end of the previous debate was right, both Klaver's intervention and Van Helvert's intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u147	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u148	In a number of other debates we have had on support for terrorist groups too often we have seen the argument that it was for the protection of our military. I understand all that, but understands the Prime Minister that on this basis there are a lot of questions to be asked about the procedures used at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u149	No, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u150	Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u151	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u152	That makes you unsuitable for the post of Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u153	I think I am very qualified for this position because I stand for the safety of our military.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u154	That's a misdemeanor, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u155	It is very good that we have procedures that place security at the centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u156	Exactly this argument was also raised at the time when it was about the support of the Dutch government to terrorist groups in Syria. That is exactly where we have had three debates, in which the Prime Minister was also present. It's too often used as a forgery. It is distracting from the debate, distracting from the seriousness of the situation. And that could really piss me off! I rarely am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u157	That's fine. You'll be angry if you want to get angry. But when it comes to standing my ground without compromise, to defend our military and to ensure that you do not compromise them through transparency agreements with the Chamber, I stand for that agreement. In the meantime, we have said: in a confidential sense, we can inform the Chamber if there is an investigation into possible civilian deaths. That's new. That wasn't then, so at that point that went neatly. This is without prejudice to the political question about the Council of Ministers. I get that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u158	You'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u159	I've already answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u160	Oh, you already answered that. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u161	I find it appalling that the Prime Minister is so proud of this: "I stand for security. We have a protocol and that leaves room to communicate." 'Cause I think everyone here knows that's not true. One. Next to the Prime Minister is the Minister of Defence, who, in the previous debate, had to apologize because her predecessor was not telling the truth about this to the Chamber. So that's what we've been communicating about. Secondly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following. If he is so convinced that this is a policy, why does Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert himself say on 2 July 2015, in response to questions from the SP about these civilian deaths, that the answer to the question whether the Chamber is included if it is established that civilian casualties have occurred following the execution of a bombing by Dutch F-16's "yes"? This does not seem to be in line with the policy outlined by the Prime Minister, namely that there is no communication about it. Hennis-Plasschaert says: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u162	Yes, but within the protocols that apply to them. Now I go back to the situation of the previous debate. That was a different matter. The previous debate was about the discussion on 23 June, the question set. In that set of questions one question was answered wrong. It should have said: we do not give that information. It said, "We don't know that. That's the mistake that was made there. It was actually the core of last time's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u163	I'm sorry, but it doesn't add up to what the Prime Minister says. In addition, the question raised by the SP in the debate on 2 July was about possible civilian casualties. The answer of Hennis-Plasschaert was: yes, we communicate about it and we take the Chamber with us. There's not a word of Spanish in there, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u164	Yes, but within all protocols, namely when things are completed, for example for the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's what protocols are for. It is not the case that if there was at any time any potential civilian casualties that were being investigated, this was shared with the Chamber at that time. It just wasn't. That is still not the case at the moment, only in a confidential sense, but not then at all. That was the procedure. That's why there's a mistake in the question set of 23 June. It shouldn't have been there: no. It should have said: we do not inform you about that. It should have been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u165	The Prime Minister calls it a mistake. I feel more senang with the word lie. There was just deliberately wrong information shared with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u166	What do you base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u167	Well, why else would your neighbor have to apologize if it wasn't so serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u168	Because there was a mistake in the information to the Chamber in that question set. It has been said "no" where should it say "we do not inform you." And afterwards it turned out that at that time there was knowledge...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u169	...that the answer was yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u170	Yeah, and that answer shouldn't have been given either. There should have been: we do not inform you about that. That's the answer that should have been given. But you are now drawing all kinds of conclusions, Mrs Marijnissen, which I think go a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u171	The Prime Minister may find it very far. I think it goes very far that a minister informs the Chamber wrongly and that she spreads a lie by saying that no civilian casualties have been suffered, but that is the case. Then the Prime Minister, with all his experience and all his political feeling, should also understand that it happens very "unhandy" to quote a coalition colleague, that in June you will be informed by Mrs Hennis about possible civilian casualties, that it will also be decided in June on an extension of this mission, that nothing will be shared with the House of Representatives and that you cannot imagine that the House of Representatives is saying: we should have had that information. Mind you, it's been asked a lot. It's been published in the media, reports have been published on it, and you name it all. We should have known, but you didn't want to know. The question is, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u172	First of all, Mrs Marijnissen draws conclusions from the error in the question set of 23 June which I leave with her. Because I don't have any evidence for her assumption, and neither does she. Secondly, she does not seem to agree with me, which is fine, then we do not agree that the policy at that time was that that type of information was not shared with the Chamber. That was just the policy. The answer, also on 23 June, should therefore have been: interesting question, but you do not hear it from us because we can possibly put people at risk with that answer; we do not give that kind of information. That's the mistake that was in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u173	Then I propose to ask the questions that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u174	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u175	No, Mr. Clover. I have also just sent Mr Baudet away and otherwise he will be back. Oh, you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u176	I'm fine with waiting for the Prime Minister to come back to that letter from the 23rd.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u177	No, I've said all about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u178	I have a question about that. I'd do that later, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u179	I've answered all those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u180	You've answered them all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u181	They were answered in the previous debate and I referred to them. That mistake was admitted by the Secretary of Defense. That's a political map here. That's a mistake, too. Mrs Marijnissen draws all kinds of conclusions from that, namely that they are all lies and so on, and I say that I do not think there is any proof of that. But it's a mistake. It should have said "we don't say it" instead of "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u182	In the Ministry of Defense, it was known that civilian casualties had occurred. Numbers did the rounds there. We knew it was being investigated further. These answers were written after the CENTCOM report of 15 June. So that information was available at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u183	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u184	It is a week before the Chamber debates the Rule 100 letter on the extension of the mission. How can you call that a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u185	It's a mistake, and that's why I call it a mistake. It should have said: you do not hear that from us; you do not get that information. What it said was, no, there's no clue. That was wrong, because after all, it turns out there was a clue. You shouldn't have written that down at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u186	Mr Rutte is barking back to my colleague Marijnissen: you have no proof of that. But I'm gonna run this by him. It was a week before the Chamber debated this. The policy was indeed not to say anything about it. And I'll tell all my colleagues that I understand. I would never want us to put our people in danger. Never. If the consequence is that we don't get information, I accept it. But if a week before the Chamber debate on the extension of that mission is not in the letter "sorry, we're not informing you about this, because the security of our people in Iraq precedes" but "there are no victims" when that information was known at the Ministry, how can you call that anything other than a lie? This wasn't a mistake. There is an error if there is no such information or if there is a procedural error. Defense is a security device. This is designed to ensure that the safety of our people is as secure as possible. You can't keep telling me this was a mistake. This was a lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u187	Mr Klaver now puts a motive next to the error, but that motive he puts here is not proof. In addition, he and Mr Baudet apparently suspect that it was convenient that this was not known in the context of the extension. There's zero evidence for that, too. Really, zero point zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u188	How then does Mr Rutte explain that, despite the fact that the information that civilian casualties were available in the Ministry, this did come in the letter with a denial? This goes against the policy of not making any statements about it, and the information was available. Then how does he explain that this was "wrong, thank you"? 'Cause that's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u189	Not "fault, thank you," it's a mistake, but we can't reconstruct how that error occurred. Mr Klaver now gives the impression that he knows, but he doesn't know either. But it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u190	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u191	So we can't reconstruct why the mistake was made, but it was a mistake and it was an accident? If Mr Rutte says to us 'you can't tell us that this was a lie', then Mr Rutte can't tell us that this was just a mistake. What I resent so much about the Ministry of Defence and the Minister is that the information was available and the Chamber was knowingly misinformed. Make that look like a mistake? Okay, even if it was a mistake, it was a mortal sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u192	That is what the previous debate has been about. The Secretary of Defense has taken responsibility for that mistake. And in the end, whether or not a motion of censure reaches a majority is also political. The Secretary of Defense has been given the confidence of a majority of the Chamber. In my view, that is absolutely right. I'm glad. That's when, that night, politically charted. That was about this mistake. What I object to, and I keep it here, is that there are motives linked to that mistake, and for those motives there is no proof. That's what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u193	I have made this the most important point of my contribution. This error, as the Prime Minister calls it, is quite remarkable. Information that the Chamber considered crucial and which is crucial, namely whether the Netherlands was involved in civilian casualties in that attack, is being denied. That letter was signed by three ministers. We know that such a letter is spelled out by several officials. I cannot add that the Minister will say: we cannot reconstruct that. So this mistake was deliberately made sometime. 'Cause if there's so many people going through it, there's got to be people responsible for something, right? I know it's very difficult to figure this out, but if we don't figure this out somehow, who's gonna tell us as a room that next time there's not another mistake in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u194	We will do our best, but the problem is, of course, that we do not know in any way how that error occurred. That's what I just said. It is not wise to speculate where that error came from. I do have a theory, but it doesn't make much sense to share it here, because it's just a theory. There are quite some domestic theories as to why this was created. But that doesn't matter, because that theory can't be proved as well as the lie Mrs Marijnissen puts on it. Then, of course, it is the question of whether there is a cover-up, which means that the Chamber is not informed. The point is, of course, that as soon as there was evidence of that error... The SGP, I thought, asked the question when I heard about it. On 3 November, Mrs Bijleveld called me and said: we discovered this mistake and I am going to correct it tomorrow. That was the moment I heard of it myself. That was November 3rd last. She called me on Sunday afternoons. There's no cover-up. That doesn't prove anything at all, but I can't reconstruct how that mistake crept in here. We just don't know. That is what the previous debate was about. Moreover, I would like to discuss here the leaders of the Labour Party who signed up. How does it work with these kind of question sets? Those question sets have questions about all sorts of things. Some are about development cooperation, others are about foreign affairs and others are about defence. It is then customary that the rulers look very closely at the answers to the questions to them. In my view, therefore, Ploumen and Koenders are not to blame for not seeing this mistake. They looked at their part of the question set. This is how it works in this type of combined large sets of questions that need to be answered to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u195	That so-called mistake was made twice. The Ministers of the Labour Party and the Minister of Defence have known about the civilian victims twice, because they have been briefed. This was discussed in the official briefing and those minutes also went to the Prime Minister. Then they must have known this mistake was in there. They must have just read, given the Minutes, that this was a mistake in the letter they co-signed. This is simply inexplicable when it is written in black and white that civilian casualties have occurred. I find it too easy to say: we do not know and we will never find out what is going on. As a chamber, we must be able to rely on the information we get.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u196	Of course. That is why Bijleveld, when she found out, immediately corrected it. She found out on Friday, November 1. She called me on Sunday, November 3rd. And I think on Monday, November 4th, the letter went to the Chamber stating that this error was discovered. So she immediately assumed her responsibility. It is now impossible to reconstruct where the error came from. I just insist that we cannot blame Ploumen and Koenders for that mistake. They look at their part of the set of questions. That's how it works. Not everyone is looking at all the other questions. You just don't do that in a case like this. Everyone's working on their questions. The Chamber asks a lot of questions. The ministries then look at their part of the sets and don't look at the part that Defence has to answer. I therefore understand very well that they did not see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u197	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u198	This question was relevant. We can praise the current minister for saying what was going on in the progress report afterwards, namely that it was likely that there were civilian casualties. If you use that text so deliberately, it is unbelievable that you leave the text that was spoken for four years undisturbed? And that's when you find in a progress report yourself that there have been casualties. In the meantime, there are three years in between, from 2015 to 2018... that mistake has never been contradicted. That's been going on for a while. What is it? Oh, yeah, three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u199	Yes, and the remarkable thing about that is that it goes even further. The Public Prosecutor reported on the findings of his investigations in April 2018. These results have also been reported to the Chamber, including that in two cases there were very likely civilian casualties, or in one case certainly and in one case at least possible. But that's not related to this question set back then. Mrs Bijleveld did so on Friday 1 November and reported me on Sunday 3 November. So I totally get it, but it's impossible to reconstruct where that mistake came from. But that is not a reproach that you can make Ploumen or Koenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u200	Finally. You don't have to find out now, but I still think it's relevant. I would therefore like to see a reconstruction of how that error came about in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u201	That has been tried and can no longer be reconstructed. We did our best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u202	But there was an official responsible for that letter. Who was that and could he be asked how that error in that letter came about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u203	We've all tried, but there's no way to find out. It's been four years, and that's the hard part. We just don't know, but it's a mistake. The Secretary of Defense has taken that policy for granted. She has informed you of this and there has been a debate on it. That was intense that Tuesday, but I think she did what had to be done. That sounds pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u204	But the question is how plausible we, as a Chamber tonight, think that the Prime Minister continues to say that he has not been informed of this at all and that he did not know anything about it at all. If you just look at what happened there: just, an entire village gone. It's a crater like Yucatan where all those dinosaurs are extinct. That's the point, isn't it? It is absolute, but it is absolutely unbelievable that the Dutch army does something like this and that it does not end up with the highest boss in the country. If that is not the case and if Rutte did not know anything about it, then perhaps it is even worse! Then perhaps he is even more incompetent, because then we have a Prime Minister who has no idea what is happening to the army! Then I'd know what could happen. Then we must really worry!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u205	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u206	If he hasn't known anything about this for four years, what else will happen in the Netherlands that he knows nothing about? And if he did know anything about it, he lied and he can't stay on. In either case, I do not see how we can go on with this Prime Minister after tonight as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u207	I have to live with that, but I am going to try to answer Mr Baudet. What about it? That's all in the letter, and I'm not saying anything new. But I'll highlight a few elements about what I knew then. In the regular official consultations, that is that SMO, the consultation where military operations are discussed, was discussed on 4 June about this coalition attack. The representative of General Affairs was not present, because at that time I was in India with that representative. He has been able to take note of the list of decisions. It said that there was talk of an operation in which a vehicleborne EID facility was destroyed. This report does not, in retrospect, say that there may be civilian casualties. That has been discussed in the consultation, but it is not in that report. Tonight the Minister of Defense has been quoted a few times about what she remembers. Her memory is that she probably informed me orally in June 2015. It says I don't have a memory of that. I would also add that I cannot rule out the possibility that it has happened. But I just don't remember her doing that. It also states the terms in which she has done so and they have been repeated a few times tonight. They're also exactly in the letter. This is then reflected in the same official consultation, such an SMO on military operations, of 26 May 2016. Then it's about the fact that the Department of Defense has completed the investigation and that the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office is still ongoing at that time. There it is reported that the additional investigation by the Defense Department has shown that civilian casualties were likely to occur. There was no mention of the number of civilian casualties, as they could not be identified. At that time, General Affairs is fully in the picture in a formal sense. So I have no memory, and of course I cannot call it now, of the conversation Hennis says in that reconstruction of the Defense Department that she probably informed me of. That's just how it is. It has already been mentioned a few times this evening with a number of caveats, namely 'not alarming', 'not about numbers' and'research is being carried out'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u208	This is completely unbelievable. I mean, the fact that Hennis was completely incompetent has proved to be sufficient. But she would have spoken in non-alarming terms of some kind of lunar landscape that we created there by bombing that gunpowder factory, couldn't she? Hundreds of houses were blown up. A whole area has become lifeless as a result. That is simply unbelievable! If so, we have been dealing with a completely dysfunctional cabinet all these years. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u209	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u210	Okay. Mr. Rutte, have you... Has the Prime Minister seen the photos of what was going on there in the days after the bombing? Have you seen it by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u211	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u212	Can he describe what's on there? Just describe what those pictures look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u213	Well, I stopped singing songs on order a while ago. But I'm going to describe something else to you; maybe that's useful. Mr Baudet uses very big words, starting with the Minister of Defence, whom I leave entirely on his behalf. That was a very good Minister of Defence, and I think back with the greatest respect to the important work she has done for the Netherlands. That's what he's doing to her. That's what I want to say here first. He will not agree with me, but in response to his qualification about the former Secretary of Defense. Then there is a procedure for what happens when something like this happens, if there are potential civilian casualties because of the Dutch commitment. All steps have gone through. I'll get to the lessons you can draw from it, because you can learn lessons from it, no doubt. It's not like we're not learning anything from this. But in itself you have to observe that at that time all steps have been taken according to the agreements, whether it is informing the official organisation through that consultation military operations, or whether it is turning on CENTCOM. That is the club that determines what happened then and, if there are civilian casualties, tries to determine whether they are and, if so, how many of them are. In the end, the conclusion is: it is very likely, but we cannot determine whether it has happened or whether it has confirmed numbers. That is the conclusion of CENTCOM. Mrs Bijleveld will be returning to that message at NRC and NOS about what CENTCOM had said to them. She'll go into that in a minute. It also happened in time afterwards when it comes to the investigation of legality from the Ministry of Defence and then also the Public Prosecutor's Office and the reports on it. All these steps have just gone through. I'm about to get a few lessons learned for the future. That is also a response to D66, Christian Union, SGP and others who have asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u214	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u215	In my view, we agree that our task as Chamber tonight is to assess whether we believe the Prime Minister's story is that he would only have been informed of the ins and outs of this matter quite recently. In the end, we have to assess whether it is plausible that what happened there in Iraq, in fact, would not have been scaled up to him. For that, we need to talk about the information that came to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministers. Those weren't just written reports. That was photos and footage. Every modern bombardment is accompanied by video recordings, photo material and other items. We in the Chamber may be quite willing to say: okay, maybe it's true that he really didn't know. But that is what we will want to do, I think, on the basis of an assessment of those photographs. Is the Prime Minister prepared, if necessary in a particular committee, to present the footage and photos available at that time to the Chamber in the near future? On that basis, we can then say: it is totally unbelievable or not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u216	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u217	...that wouldn't have been scaled up after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u218	I don't understand that link. There's a procedure. Again, I come to some lessons to draw for the future. There's an appointment about who's being informed about this. Ministries will be informed. That procedure does not require the Minister of Defence to specifically inform the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister. That's not in the procedure. I am telling you that I have no memory of any information in that month, nor of Mrs Hennis. She says: I probably also informed Rutte. I don't have that memory. In the end, it is also a question of trust if you believe in it. I cannot force Mr Baudet to do that. I'm looking right at him; that's how it is. I have no memory of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u219	I'm looking at Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u220	I'm gonna finish this. I have no memory of that. I don't know what it matters. By the way, as far as those photographs are concerned, as far as CENTCOM reports or certain reports from the Defense Department are concerned, they are classified. They can't just be shared. But they don't add anything to the question of whether or not I remember? That's just a question of trust. When I tell you here, as Prime Minister of the Netherlands: I have no memory that I was informed at that time by Mrs Hennis; I am not ruling it out either, and I cannot rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u221	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u222	... then it is ultimately a matter of trust, Mr. Baudet, and not only of your trust, but of the Chamber, whether you believe it. If not, I'm gonna do other things. If you do believe me, I will continue. Eventually, it's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u223	I'm going to see Mr. Kuzu. No. Then round it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u224	You can't forget a picture with at least 70 burned and dead civilians on it. You can't say you don't have a memory of that. Either you have been informed or you have not been informed. But all that vagueness in itself is completely unbelievable. That kind of footage a human being never forgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u225	I have no memory whatsoever that in June 2015 I was informed from the SMO or by Mrs Hennis. I can't guarantee it didn't happen; I have zero memory of it. That's what I'm telling you. That's what the letter says, that's just a fact, and it's a matter of trust whether you accept that from me. I can't force you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u226	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u227	Another question? Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u228	The Prime Minister replied in passing to a number of questions. I actually have a question on two parts of it. The Prime Minister has somehow had the bizarre idea of jumping to the fore for the former Foreign Minister. He couldn't have known. But in answering the written questions, we now know that not every ruler reads every question.It simply states that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been informed several times at various times: 4 June 2015, 11 June 2015, 26 May 2016, by the official representative in the SMO informed in writing on the same day. Then how can the Prime Minister claim that the Foreign Minister could not know anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u229	There seems to have been a misunderstanding between Mr Kuzu and me. What I just said was about the question set of June 23rd. The point made by one of the members of the House of Representatives was that there are also the signatures of Hennis and van Koenders. I see that Mr Kuzu has something to say, but I will finish my reply. That mistake was made when answering the question of whether there is anything to say about civilian deaths by the Dutch effort; I paraphrase it for a moment. That question is answered, paraphrased, with "no." It should have said, "We don't tell anyone about that." That's the mistake, that's what the previous debate was about. The question that was asked is: shouldn't Koenders and Ploumen have responded to that mistake? I have said that I understand the question, but that it is not right, because in that kind of composite lists of parliamentary questions each ministry answers its own questions, but does not also look at all the other questions very comprehensively because it is impossible. Mr Kuzu is now referring to another issue, namely whether Mr Koenders has been informed about the possibility of civilian casualties. That has, it turns out, indeed happened at a few moments. He himself says he has no memory of it. That's his right. But that is the list Mr Kuzu is reading here. My answer wasn't about that. That was about the question set of June 23rd.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u230	And the signing of a question set on 23 June will therefore take place after the Foreign Minister has been informed. I can very well imagine that, for example, the Minister for Development Cooperation cannot remember this. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was also present in the Chamber debates during all these AO's, should know very well. I actually recognize a pattern in the response of the former directors and the Prime Minister, namely that there is no memory of it, either actively or passively. With this Prime Minister, you have to pay extra attention to the moment he says he doesn't have a memory of anything. That happened with the bitch deal, that happened with the dividend tax. Well, then it's as a member of parliament, so pay attention. I'm wondering what's going on here. The moment you're told, through the former Secretary of Defense, that there has been a massive explosion involving possible civilian casualties, how alarming must it be? Isn't it true that the Prime Minister, after one day, after one week or one month, grabs him after a year, once again asks the Minister of Defense: how did the investigation end; what exactly has been concluded? Why didn't the Prime Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u231	First, back to Mr Koenders. For, once again, I do not deny that Mr Kuzu and I agree that there are moments in that letter when the Foreign Minister has been informed that there may be civilian casualties. I'm not denying that. He says, "I don't have any memories of that." That is also quite possible. You can do both. The discussion was just about the question set of 23 June in which the one question was answered with no. I say that that is quite explainable because I assume that neither the Foreign Minister nor the Foreign Trade Minister is looking at the answer to the questions raised by the Minister of Defence at that time. That was my point about the question set of 23 June. Now about me. I just gave the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u232	Yeah, this is gonna be a repeat, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u233	I have no memory of being informed in any way in the month of June 2015. There's nothing I can make more beautiful about that, and there's nothing I can add to that. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u234	Okay. That's why I asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u235	But, Mr President, we have heard many times that the Prime Minister said: I have no memory of it. That is not just during today's debate. We see that in the press. We saw it in previous debates. But my question was about something relevant, about the alarming tone of former Minister Hennis towards the Prime Minister. I wonder how alarming it must have been at the time of a massive explosion, of an investigation looking at potential civilian casualties. Then you expect the Prime Minister to ask the Secretary of Defense again after a week, after a month, after a year: how did that investigation end? And why didn't the Prime Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u236	That's actually the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u237	Mr Kuzu adds all sorts of things that would have been shared in that supposed conversation.... in the words of Hennis.. with me, which are not in it at all. Two. I just said that I have no memory of any information in that month or months about potential civilian casualties from a Dutch deployment in Iraq. I don't have that memory. That's a bit of a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u238	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u239	This is ultimately a matter of consistency on my part. I can't fake a memory I don't have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u240	In my view, there are at least two important things to note. There's been a mistake, a very serious mistake. Apologies have been made for that. Then the Prime Minister says: I can't remember. We can have the debate here for hours, but in the end it's about exactly what's going on between those ears and what's going on in that brain, to forget something like that. But at least for me that is a prayer without end. However, I would like to know from the Prime Minister when he talks about lessons learned... Then you must also know very well where something went wrong. Otherwise, you can't learn lessons. The Prime Minister just pointed out through you, President, that he can't exactly point it out, but that he can think of a theory about how things could have gone so wrong, why no one saw a red button anywhere and thought: God, I'm all reading stuff in the newspaper about so many civilian victims, so maybe I should put someone on his jacket and we should talk about it. In my opinion, you can name such elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u241	But Mrs Belhaj is now saying in a nutshell: how he can forget that. Mrs Hennis says "probably informed." I'd like that to be sharp. Now back to the question. The point is, of course, that there are reports in the international press of violent numbers that CENTCOM does not confirm. CENTCOM says: there is very likely, probable, credible. ultimately, "probable" in the report in February, which we have only translated as "very likely". These are public sources, but of course they are not linked here at the time. I'll be right with the lessons learned, how to prevent that in the future. I am going to deal with Mrs Belhaj. I can do it now, but perhaps I can answer some other questions first and then get to the lessons. Then Mrs. Belhaj can see if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u242	But before you can talk about lessons learned, you need to know where it went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u243	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u244	The Prime Minister skips that step every time. He says: I can't remember that and we're going to see how we can prevent in the future that we actually didn't pick it up at some point. But it's important... You have asked within your own ministry: how do we deal with this? That is why I referred to the Davids Committee. He also said something about the possible responsibilities...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u245	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u246	Okay. But perhaps before you go into the lessons learned, you can describe something about what you have discovered over the past two weeks. You say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u247	I just told you that AZ wasn't with that SMO. That's incredibly clumsy when I look back on it, but it's just a fact. We have a very small staff at AZ and the representative was with me to India. The report does not mention possible civilian deaths. The report states that there has been talk of an operation that destroyed an IED facility, but no mention has been made of potential victims. Next is the second fact that the letter states Mrs Hennis, who probably would have informed me. I'll be right there. I understand Mrs Belhaj's question. Of course, that's what the inconvenience is about, and we have to address it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u248	It's still a little difficult. We are now living in November 2019. During the press conference on 8 November 2019 you were also asked by a number of journalists about the questions they asked earlier on 13 April last year, so 2018. Then you remembered a little more, I say through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u249	No. I replied to a question from Wester on 13 April that we are 100% committed to preventing civilian deaths, but cannot guarantee 100% that it will not happen. This was due to the fact that that morning, after that press conference, the results of the public prosecutor's investigation were also disclosed, at least in two cases it was found that there were very likely civilian deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u250	Just to be clear: the results of the public prosecutor's investigation were only released after the press conference of 13 April 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u251	Yes. In the morning there was a message about that in the media. How it got there, I know... I can't exactly reconstruct. There Mrs Van Bijle... Mrs Bijleveld, Ank Bijleveld without Van, responds to the walk-in in the morning. I respond to Wester's question in the press conference and the public prosecutor's investigation will also be out on that day, on April 13, 2018. This shows that it has been established that civil deaths were possible or certain in two cases. I get questions about that from Wester: how about that, so that can happen? Then I say, "Yes, we are doing very much to prevent that. It's really bad when it happens. It's an inevitable risk. We have fantastic F-16 pilots, who have a high profile in the world because they are able, partly because of their training, partly because of the stuff they work with, to be precise. But it can never be completely ruled out." That was in connection with the D.A.'s investigation, which came out that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u252	Then there's something I don't understand. What Frits Wester specifically asks is: "Mr. Rutte, has the cabinet also discussed the results of the prosecution's investigation into the four missions with the F-16s over Iraq, where one and two other likely civilian deaths have occurred?" You then say, I say through the President, 'We have talked about this, indeed. In my opinion, Mrs Bijleveld also mentioned this at the so-called string at the departure."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u253	That's right. That's what I just said. We talked about that, because that came out that day. In the cabinet, we talked about the fact that that day the public prosecutor's investigation came out to four bets from the Netherlands in Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u254	Finally, really, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u255	But the Prime Minister just said that that information about the D.A.'s investigation didn't come out until after the press conference, so how is it possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u256	This was known to us, by the cabinet. It would be brought out afterwards, but apparently in the morning there was a leak in the media, which Mrs Bijleveld responds to. That's how it went on the 13th of April. Unfortunately, things sometimes leak out for the Council of Ministers on Friday. I have a tendency to take that item off the agenda. That can't always happen, especially when there are third parties who bring things out. I am, of course, trying to encourage colleagues not to say anything to the Council of Ministers by deleting the item on the agenda, if it has been in the news for the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u257	But the Prime Minister himself said in the press conference that there was talk in the cabinet about civilian deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u258	Because the message was in the media in the morning, and Mrs Bijleveld had responded to it, that the prosecutor would come out with the investigation that day. We knew that investigation. The Council of Ministers had discussed that the D.A. had completed the investigation into four stakes and had drawn conclusions. In one of those investigations, there had been certain civilian deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u259	I see you standing, Mr. Baudet. You had a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u260	Yeah, a simple point. We hear the Prime Minister say that the report of 4 June does not mention civilian deaths. We hear him say that twice. I would really like to see that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u261	What report do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u262	The report to which the Prime Minister refers, in which there would be no mention of civilian deaths. I think that is unlikely, because we read in the letter from the day before yesterday that the possibility of possible civilian casualties was apparently mentioned at that meeting...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u263	Yeah, yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u264	... but apparently not in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u265	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u266	I don't know if I believe that. I want to see that. I think that as a Chamber we simply need to persevere in our information position here. Mr Klaver supports me and I think I have just received Mr Wilders' support. We need that report. It is perfectly reasonable for us to ask that, because this is about trust, as the Prime Minister himself said. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u267	Yeah, clear. And the request is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u268	We want, of course, to keep the possibility open that he can be trusted. I see Mr Krol nodding too. So is Mrs. Marijnissen. I'm seeing more and more members... I propose that we vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u269	No... No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u270	I want a suspension. I would like to take a vote because this is a point of order. This is about information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u271	But for a minute, guys. This is classified information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u272	This is getting way out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u273	These are classified reports. There is talk of all confidential missions. It can't go out there. But I'm telling you here... We'll do another check. I'm gonna ask the counselor. This is what I think it says in the letter and in the question set out in the SMO report that talks about an operation in which a vehicle-borne IED facility has been destroyed. So there's no talk of numbers or civilian deaths. Isn't that right? Yes. That's officially confirmed. So we'll just have to trust that that's really what it says. I am not going to make that report public, because it all contains confidential things from missions, but that is what the report says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u274	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mr. Christmas. But I'd like to look at the Prime Minister, because there's been a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u275	But the advantage of that is that all the questions are now sort of answered...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u276	Yeah, a lot of questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u277	... except for my two "lessons learned."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u278	Okay. Then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u279	If that is the case, I am on trial here, because the Prime Minister just spoke extensively about when he may not have been informed in his memory. I asked him when he heard that dozens of civilian casualties have been reported and when he has been alerted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u280	Those dozens? It's not to be said, so that can't be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u281	Then let me rephrase my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u282	... civilian casualties have been reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u283	When did the Prime Minister hear that in all likelihood, probable, as he himself has just taken it out of English, civilian casualties have been suffered? Was that between February and April 2018? That's a time frame the Secretary of Defense mentioned. Has that ever happened before? Did it happen after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u284	That's going a little bit now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u285	I just answered that question. This is at least the case on 26 May 2016, in a state-law sense, as the SMO will discuss the missions again. Then it is discussed again that there were likely civilian casualties following the progress report on the investigation that took place from the Public Prosecutor's Office. There was no mention of the number of civilian casualties, i.e. not of large numbers or that kind of figures, but of very likely civilian casualties, but without numbers. That was discussed on 26 May 2016 in that SMO. So in a state-of-the-art sense, I'm fully informed. And yeah, that probably came to me then, too. Anyway, that's after... At that time, CENTCOM had already been completed. That had already been said in February "We cannot go beyond establishing: very probably...", et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u286	A follow-up question is: was that when the Prime Minister or the alarm bells started ringing? What has he done in connection with this, for example in his contacts with the Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u287	No, because all the steps were well taken. I'll be right back to the inconvenience. I definitely see that in June 2015. I'll get to that in a minute. And apart from what I know about that, I say, I have no memories of it, I understand that whole inconvenience. But look what happened over those months and years and what we agreed on. You're getting CENTCOM to find out what's going on. You see for yourself what you can find out. You're investigating legality, from the DOD and from the D.A.'s office. You're gonna wrap that up, too. That's where you draw conclusions. All these steps have been taken. The system has followed all these steps. The procedure has been followed. At the same time, however, I will come to that in a moment. Of course, you have to find that there is at least discomfort in it. I will immediately work out what I mean by that and how I would like to resolve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u288	Fortunately, the most important question I had has already been answered by the Prime Minister. But I'm gonna go back. On 23 June 2015, a mistake was made by sending information to the Chamber. That information didn't turn out to be correct. We concluded in the previous debate that the Minister of Defence knew this on 1 November. After that, she was right to inform the Chamber. My main question to the Prime Minister was: when did he know? It's a shame that that call was on Sunday...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u289	But after the shift.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u290	... butIforgivethem. That's why it's clear that he didn't know before. For me, there's one more question I'm really curious about. There has been contact with former Minister Hennis in the period between the previous debate and now apparently. She said: I probably informed the Prime Minister. It's all possible. My question is actually: has Minister Hennis also been asked how it is possible that the Chamber was informed in 2015 when it should not have been, and that there was also a wrong sentence in it? Was that question asked? And if so, what was the answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u291	That question has been asked. No, it's not... it's not? I'm gonna find out for you. That question has been asked. We're gonna find out. I'm gonna need the D.O.D. to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u292	So I'm gonna get an answer to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u293	Yes. Maybe in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u294	I see you again, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u295	It's a debate. Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u296	Yes, but I also want the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u297	So I've still learned those two lessons, but I'm through answering them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u298	Okay. Very briefly, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u299	I have an important question. Mr Rutte stated that in June the number of victims was not known at all, that the Minister of Defence did not know at the time either. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u300	It's still unknown, not to this day. We don't even know if there's been any casualties. Of course, there is no human being who thinks there are no victims, but in 2016 CENTCOM formally found that victims were most likely, but did not mention numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u301	Let me get this straight. If we ask Mr Rutte if he has been informed by Mrs Hennis, he says: well, she is not sure, but most likely. Then he's very precise on the words. Now it's just as important, namely: were there any figures known to the Minister of Defence in 2015? I'm not saying they had already been officially established about how many victims would have been?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u302	In the case of Defense, however, some people who had read the CENTCOM report, because the CENTCOM report...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u303	I asked about the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u304	I don't know. I do not think that is relevant under state law. Then I think it's known to her, too. The CENTCOM report of 15 June 2015 referred to a public source, Reuters, which reports 70 victims. It is unclear whether these are civilian casualties or ISIS. CENTCOM says in the final report of February 2016: on this basis we cannot determine the number of victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u305	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u306	No, Mrs. Marijnissen was there earlier. I was going to give you the floor, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u307	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u308	No, Mrs Marijnissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u309	I'd like to get on with this. The Prime Minister says, if I understand correctly, that on 2 or 3 June 2015 was the fatal failure of the bombing and that on 4 June 2015 was the SMO. The Prime Minister's official did not happen to be present. Then there is a report of the SMO and there are minutes. The Prime Minister says that there has been talk of possible civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u310	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u311	That's what you said before. It had been discussed, but it did not end up in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u312	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u313	So it was discussed and the Prime Minister's official was not present. It just so happens it didn't end up in the Minutes. As it happens, former Minister Hennis says she has informed the Prime Minister, but as it happens, the Prime Minister has no memory of it. And coincidentally, that mission will also be extended in the month of June. I ask the Prime Minister how credible he thinks all this is, all these coincidences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u314	If you put it that way... But let's see how it went. The SMO is talking about this and it is shared that there may be civilian casualties. This is not reflected in the report. That is not a bad thing at all, because the report of such a meeting is a list of decisions. It is not a stenographic report as it is made here by the fantastic stenographers. It's a decision list from the SMO. That's the line I just read. Now it's just being pretended that I had a trip to India. Yeah, I did at the time. The representative of AZ was at that time in India. That's just how it happened. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u315	I ask the Prime Minister very specifically how it is possible that he knows that it was discussed there on 4 June 2015. It did not appear in the report and his official was not there either. It happens not to have been recorded and coincidentally he also has no memory of Hennis telling him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u316	He himself says "probably."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u317	Yeah, he definitely says "probably." You don't happen to have any memories of that. That's unbelievable, isn't it? You have to see that for yourself, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u318	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u319	No, I won't stop! I'm definitely not gonna stop. It is unbelievable that you say that my official was not there and it is not so bad that it did not end up in the Minutes. Well, it's terrible that it didn't end up in the Minutes, because the Prime Minister is hiding behind it now. He says, "I had no knowledge of it." Well, then it seems to me very sad that it didn't end up in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u320	But I'm not hiding from the fact. If I had known, there wouldn't have been a problem. What was against that? I have to tell the truth here, don't I? I have no memory of being informed in that month or in those months. In no way do I have a memory of that. That's the truth. I have to tell the truth here. But if it had been... If Mrs Hennis had informed me, that would not have been weird at all. You didn't have to follow protocol. She says: I have informed Koenders and presumably Rutte. It wouldn't be crazy if that had happened. The Secretary of Defense says this also comes out in normal procedural channels, but it's also good that you hear it from me. The letter states how she explained it to the Defense Department on request and how she said it to Koenders and probably to me. I have no memory of that. But what am I supposed to cover here? Nothing at all. And then the mistrust as if I had already months in advance a trip to India book with the representative of AZ in the SMO because that's convenient? And that's how the decision list gets written down and that's convenient? Yeah, that's how I can reconstruct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u321	I don't think this is "that's how I can reconstruct something." This is about a huge number of possible civilian casualties and a Prime Minister who says: I have no memory of that. He is talking about a list of decisions, which I would like to see again, just like that protocol he is hiding behind and which apparently states that he does not have to share this kind of information. We would like to see that protocol. I don't know it. But it's also because the Prime Minister makes it so small. He says Minister Hennis didn't tell a lie, he made a mistake. He got very angry when I was talking about lying. How can you say it was just a mistake in the letter of June 23rd? In the debate the following week, on 30 June, when it was already widely known that there was a possibility of civilian casualties and even having been discussed, Minister Hennis also simply said to the Chamber: 'it was very difficult, but we have to note that there has been no mention of collateral damage in this way about civilian casualties'. She also said, "It's not like you're destroying a whole neighborhood or region." How cynical is that? So a whole neighborhood or region has been laid down. So there have been civilian casualties. The Prime Minister says "most likely" and Hennis just says "it's not so" on 30 June. And we can't say that's a lie, Prime Minister? How do you qualify?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u322	It would be good, I think, to go back to the facts as we write them down in the letter. The fact is, there's one club that investigates the suspicion of civilian casualties. That suspicion was due to the intensity of the secondary explosion the kites had seen. They went to CENTCOM. That's the club doing research and looking at what else is known. The CENTCOM report therefore mentions the Reuters' report on the 70. The club concludes that civilian casualties are very likely, but the number cannot be determined. Mrs Marijnissen now says: yes, but there were large numbers of victims. How she sums this up, I find something short. That doesn't do justice to the facts. Can I tell her that? These were the facts at the time. I'll get to the inconvenience that's in it, because I can see that too, but I don't want to come to that until we've drilled this whole thing out. My point about 23 June was not that no mistake was made. There's just that mistake, but Mrs. Marijnissen says it was a lie. That's based on motive. And for that motive, there's no clue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u323	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u324	Certainly in conclusion, Mr President. I ask the Prime Minister what he thinks of the fact that Hennis was still on June 30th, then we are not talking about the letter of June 23rd, which he does not want to qualify as a lie, but if mistake says that there is no collateral damage 'because it is not that you are destroying a whole neighborhood'. But there were already a lot of reports back then that this was very likely to be the case. I just listed where all that was shared. That's just a tough lie, isn't it? Why doesn't the Prime Minister just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u325	I have just said, also in response to Mr Voordewind's question, that it is impossible to reconstruct how that error occurred. But putting that mistake as a lie now, when we don't know the motive, I don't think it's fair. Isn't that something I'm allowed to say here? I'm admitting a mistake, aren't I? The fact that it was also reported to the Chamber by Mrs Bijleveld, politically, is absolutely right. She found out on Friday, informed me on Sunday, and Monday it went to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u326	I'm picking up my interruption where I left off. It was about what Minister Hennis knew and didn't know. In the debate of three weeks ago, following questions from Mr Belhaj, the Minister of Defence indicated that Minister Hennis was fully informed, including the indication that 70 people were killed. So the Secretary of Defense was aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u327	Legally speaking, that's true, isn't it? She has access to that CENTCOM report, right? That was known to the Defense Department. That CENTCOM report refers to the Reuters' report on the 70. I do not know whether she has been aware of this personally, but it is not relevant in a constitutional sense either. In a state-law sense, she could have had knowledge of that 70. Mrs Bijleveld replied quite correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u328	That's good to know. So the minister knew about this. And there has been collateral damage on missions from the Netherlands. Of some things, we've been able to see things in public. Only 70? When was the last time that happened, I would like to ask Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u329	About the 70. CENTCOM itself says that there is no way to determine the number of civilian casualties. They quote the source, but they then say: on that basis we cannot determine the number. I know what was reported at NRC and NOS. Mrs Bijleveld will deal with that in a moment. They checked with CENTCOM because the first answer to these two media outlets differed from what we know. Once again, Mrs Bijleveld will give that clarity. It's in her stack. But CENTCOM is the source and the party to determine what happened. It comes to the conclusion: most likely civilian deaths, but we don't know how many. We put that down somewhere. They're the referee in these cases. You can't say here: there were many, there were dozens, or there were 70. There is a public source that refers to the number of 70. CENTCOM won't take over. There is no one here who thinks that there have been no civilian casualties, but that is only very likely formally. No one will know from what we all now think it didn't happen, but we don't know how big those numbers are. There may be a lot of them, but we just don't know. It is very likely that civilian casualties have occurred, with no number. Those are the facts we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u330	This is a very legalistic attitude. There's no official record of how many deaths we're dealing with. CENTCOM takes over the source of Reuters for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u331	No, they're quoting him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u332	But you only do that if you believe it's a reliable source.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u333	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u334	We didn't just have this source. We also had the source of the Red Cross who went to the embassy in Baghdad to inform about 170 deaths. In other words, there were all sorts of indications that it would be dozens of deaths. The question I asked the Prime Minister in various indications about so many deaths, namely dozens or perhaps more than 100: when was the last time this happened in a Dutch mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u335	This again assumes that these were the facts at that time. The fact is, there were indications. Fact is, this didn't happen. The fact is that you have a club that will sort it out for you and most likely determine it. I'll be right back to the inconvenience. I'll go into that separately, once we've drilled this whole thing out. I understand the inconvenience about the fact that this signal is not wider shared. I totally get that. I am not blaming anyone and I think everyone has done this to the best of their consciences. Apart from the error of 23 June in the question set, which was the subject of the previous debate, the whole reconstruction shows that everyone has done things in good conscience. We simply don't know the motive behind the mistake on June 23rd. That can't be reconstructed. Furthermore, I have no reason to believe that mistakes have been made here. Towards the future, you want to deal with this kind of public resource in a different way. I'll get to that in a minute. But it is a public source, of which CENTCOM himself says: we do not take it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u336	This is truth finding. This is precision. I asked when there was an indication on a Dutch mission that there were so many victims to report as collateral damage. When was the last time that happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u337	I wouldn't know. That will have been very rarely or not the case. This is, of course, a unique situation, if it is true that there are large numbers involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u338	But here's the thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u339	All we know is it's very likely. Mr Klaver is right that public sources talk about significant numbers. They won't be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u340	I would really like to say to Mr Rutte: stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u341	No, we're gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u342	Yeah, say it with some pride and a smile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u343	That's the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u344	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u345	Yeah, truth finding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u346	That's what you just said, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u347	The Prime Minister just said that this is a unique situation. We have an indication that this could be more than 100 victims, due to Dutch involvement. We, as politicians, are responsible for this. There is no request, exercised, retraced, touched upon. Apparently that is not shared with the Prime Minister. You can't do that if so many people find death. That is our responsibility. This must then be shared with the head of the cabinet. Then it is said: I think I shared it with the leader of the cabinet, but it was not alarmist in tone. If you have this information and if more than 70 people have died, how the hell can you inform someone non-alarmist? Non-alarmist? How's that going? I'm trying to imagine how that works. Gee, by the way, maybe more than 70 people died?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u348	Now everything's getting put together. I'm going to sort it again anyway, because this really doesn't do the situation justice. To begin with, Hennis knew state law from the public source that called 70. We do not know what she knew at the time, but she could have had access to the CENTCOM report. That's one piece. Mr Klaver is now pretending that he is 70. It hasn't been confirmed anywhere. This is a public source. He asked me if it has often occurred that such large numbers are indicated in public sources. Then I say no, but with that it is still precisely that: a public source that CENTCOM says cannot determine the numbers on that basis, that it cannot even determine whether civilian casualties have occurred, but that is very likely. That's how it is. Next, the CENTCOM is doing this research. Do you know anything else? There will eventually be a result, namely that it cannot be established, that it is very likely, but there are no numbers. It then goes on to investigate the legality of both the Defence Department and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That leads to conclusions. All these steps have been taken in accordance with the current agreements on how to do that. The ministries were informed via the SMO according to the agreements in force. I'm here to talk about how you want to arrange for the future. But that's all happened. I can't blame people for that. However, there is some inconvenience in this matter, which I shall come up with in a moment, and that is something you must avoid in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u349	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u350	Finally, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u351	This is about more than inconvenience. This is about how we politicians deal with military engagement abroad. This is about more than inconvenience. This is about how we react when we hear that through our actions dozens of people have died. The Prime Minister says we've gone through everything in a procedural manner. But have we gone through all the procedures correctly? Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u352	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u353	Not at all. The cabinet should have known this before the decision was taken if you now say: it has gone well, because we have focused all the way on CENTCOM. This was relevant information. This should have taken over the cabinet and it didn't. The Prime Minister also claims that it was not necessary to take the decision. I really don't understand how he still dares to defend this here, in such a good mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u354	I can, because we always knew that, in the fight against this bastard ISIS state, we were at risk of civilian deaths, although we are doing everything we can to prevent them. We always knew that. We did everything we could to prevent that. The system in which you establish that if you suspect that there are civilian deaths, there is. That's CENTCOM. That's an authoritative club that can get the best information. Which, if they can confirm, also confirm. They've done the same in other cases. But here they say: it's very likely, we can't confirm it. You couldn't get into the area then, either, to investigate that on the spot. It was a dangerous area. That was impossible. In the end, you have to rely on that. It's an authoritative club, it's a command of the Americans. They do this kind of thing for coalitions like this. They have all the knowledge and experience and can do so with a great deal of authority. They finally come to this conclusion. What I object to is that Mr Klaver is again trying to give the impression in his question that there are confirmed numbers and that we already know that they are large numbers. We don't know any of that. There are very likely casualties, but there is no indication of numbers. I am not saying that there is a very good chance that no casualties have occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u355	No, I'm going to see Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u356	But we don't know how much and we need to be very precise about that. I think that is part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u357	I'm going to see Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u358	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is addressing me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u359	Yes, you spoke to him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u360	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u361	You just said it was a debate. Then I'm going to see Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u362	He puts words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u363	You may make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u364	I did not say in any way that the number of victims is a fact. I've been talking about indications all along. In this whole debate, I am sticking to the facts and separating indications from facts. I do not appreciate the Prime Minister putting this on me right now. I'd appreciate it if he took those words back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u365	That's how I hear it. I'm glad the misunderstanding has cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u366	The Prime Minister is about to talk about his uncomfortable moments and about anything better, but I have an uncomfortable feeling about the way the Prime Minister answers these kinds of questions. Sometimes shrugging our shoulders, we get bogged down in a whole technical discussion, and then he tries to distract by throwing up a blur where numbers are concerned. But there are a number of facts. The fact is that the Prime Minister himself just admitted that that information might have come to him through the SMO and the decision list of 26 May. So the Prime Minister acknowledges that he had that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u367	In a state-law sense, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u368	Or at least his government had that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u369	Yeah, in a state-of-the-art sense, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u370	Does the Prime Minister therefore recognise that he is responsible for this and that he could at least have taken note of that information? And that on the basis of that information, he could have asked for it, but that he left it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u371	Just two things. There would also have been nothing wrong if I had already heard it in June 2015 and could have remembered it now. But again, I simply don't know that either from the SME report or from the suspected communication from Jeanine Hennis to me that I simply don't remember. If it had, there wouldn't have been anything wrong. That's the piece. On 26 May, at least state law will be applied, as AZ has again discussed possible civilian casualties there. In any case, in a state-of-the-art sense, I am certainly aware of this. But then he's talking about asking through. That gives the impression that things have not gone well in the process. Everything went the way it was supposed to. All steps have been taken as agreed in advance. I will come up with a number of lessons, because with that you can really do that is also the question that a number of Members of Parliament have asked about the future. But I stand here, apart from the 23rd June error, that in that process, in my opinion, everyone has tried to give effect to the normal way to follow this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u372	We can only move on to the lessons learned at the moment when the Prime Minister also acknowledges that he had that information and that on the basis of that information, if he had concentrated a little more and if he had been paying more attention, he could have asked through, so we might not have this debate at all at the moment. Maybe we had the debate a lot earlier. The moment I ask that question, the Prime Minister just doesn't answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u373	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u374	I urge the Prime Minister to do the following. You could have had that information on the basis of the SME report on 26 May. That information was present within the Ministry of General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u375	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u376	You acknowledged that you were responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u377	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u378	You acknowledged that you could have had that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u379	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u380	On the basis of that information, you could have asked your colleague, former Minister Hennis, to clarify a number of matters. But you didn't. Do you recognize that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u381	No, because that wasn't necessary. Because all the steps were taken. The CENTCOM had already drawn conclusions at that time. It was impossible to enter the area and determine things for yourself. It was dangerous. Bombed. There were idiots there from ISIS. Within the coalition, we tried to get things back on track. That was the situation on 26 May 2016. Questioning at that time would not have given me any new information. That is why I say: if I had been informed in June 2015, that would not have been a problem either. In fact, that would have been fine. Others were aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u382	As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u383	Wait a minute, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u384	But I'm also giving you an honest answer. If I'm asked if I have any memories of it, I'm not gonna lie. Then my answer is: I have no memories of that. If it had, it wouldn't have been a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u385	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u386	But at that time, too, that had not led to an action perspective. Mr Kuzu is getting very tired of me, but I am going to answer him anyway. That would not have led to any other actions on my part at that time, because at that time, as shown by the whole reconstruction, all the steps you have to take under the procedure were taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u387	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u388	This is something I really need to get off my chest. Indeed, I am getting tired when the Prime Minister says: yes, it would have been no different, it could have happened this way. So I'm really wondering. We are not talking about building a railroad. We are talking about possible civilian casualties that have fallen. You're gonna talk a little more empathetic, with the tone you're doing that and the attitude you're doing that with, a little shrugging your shoulders, making it small at the moment it's big and making it big at the moment it's asking for details. That is not the way to debate it. The Prime Minister's just misting up here. He's trying to distract himself from his own responsibility. Because once again, the fact is that the Prime Minister had that information. At least that information was at his ministry. He was responsible for that. He hasn't asked through, and he has failed as Prime Minister. Does he admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u389	No, not the second one. The first one's true. And if I hadn't been to India, that information would have been in the Ministry of State law as early as June 2015. I could have been otherwise informed in June 2015. My honest answer to that is that I have no memory of it. But if it had, it wouldn't have been anything weird. Then the question is: if I had known then, would we have done things differently? That's where D66's question gets back: what kind of direction could you have? I'd like to say something about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u390	I have a question on the basis of the facts that have just been communicated. There was a meeting on 4 June 2015. I understand from the Prime Minister that there was talk at that meeting about civilian casualties...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u391	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u392	... and that at that meeting, which is quite understandable, the representative of the Ministry of General Affairs was not present? It does not then appear in the report, the Minutes, of that sitting. But now, afterwards, we can see that in that meeting it is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u393	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u394	... civilian casualties have gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u395	Possibly, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u396	Then how do we know? Are there any other notes, other than those minutes, from which that has become clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u397	What was discussed in that SMO, we all described in that letter, based on all the information. That's why it took us a few weeks to write a letter. We wanted everything double, double, double check. This shows that the SMO has said: yes, possible civilian casualties. That is not the case in the report. But that's all described in the letter, on page 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u398	But then it's clear, isn't it? It won't be in the minutes. Now people do remember that it was discussed at that time; they had to realize that at that time. You're ultimately responsible. Then you can expect your people to come to you and say: it's not in there, but do you need to know this? Otherwise, you'd lose control, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u399	Listen, the deal at that time was that if something like that happened, ministries had to be informed. This is also described in the letter from the Minister of Defence, which we co-signed. That's exactly what he's describing. That's how it happened. That's what she described in the previous debate. In this letter we explain how we do it. This is done through the consultation on military operations, that so-called SMO. And then it works that very often in the Foreign Office it turns out that the Minister is also informed about this separately once again. It turns out it is now. That's what happened. There is also talk of possible civilian deaths. This has also been done towards the Minister of Justice. I don't know exactly in what terms. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, of course, particularly relevant. That's all good, too. It could have been me, too. That wouldn't have been a big deal. The question is then whether I knew about it in June. My honest answer is: I have no memory of it. If you look at that SMO, it might be explainable, too. Jeanine Hennis says: I probably did inform him. You know, it could be. I have no memory of it, but I can't rule it out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u400	I can imagine that at another sitting the Minutes will come back to the table. Then there must have been someone who said: there is an essential point that has not been included in the Minutes. Otherwise, you can't take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u401	It's a list of decisions, they're not minutes. Again, with all due respect to our stenographers, that is not how such a meeting is defeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u402	I have one more question. Can the Prime Minister explain on the basis of what information can now be reconstructed in the letter from the day before yesterday with certainty that these civilian victims have been discussed if it was not in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u403	Well, I'd like to find out. That's completely established.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u404	How?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u405	It's been discussed there. I would ask you to provide this on the basis of what that was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u406	You will then return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u407	Wait a minute: what to offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u408	On the basis of which we know that it has been discussed there. That also turns out because in the report out to the Minister of Foreign Affairs... The representative of foreign affairs shall send an official note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It mentions the fact that there has been talk of civilian casualties. That's already proof. I think that's enough. It shows that it's been treated there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u409	Wait a minute, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u410	What I'm telling you now is all in the letter, nothing new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u411	The Secretary of State's?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u412	It says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u413	Where?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u414	It's in the letter. I don't know which page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u415	Could you quote it for me, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u416	I'm gonna look that up for you, but it's all in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u417	Well, no, it doesn't say that. That's the whole point. That's what's so interesting. On the basis of which we can now say: on 4 June was discussed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u418	I'm gonna go get that report back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u419	When are we gonna get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u420	I'm gonna have to hand that over to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u421	Wait a minute. You'll get back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u422	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u423	Okay. So you will come back to this point. I suppose you do, don't you? Let me take a look at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u424	Sure. I'll get back to you on this. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u425	Your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u426	You didn't want to share those minutes. They were classified. You just said that on an earlier interruption. Was there a semi-trailer at the Minutes? Were they accompanied by a semi-trailer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u427	Again, let's get back to the facts. In the end, the trust rule between the Chamber and me applies. I am now telling the Chamber that we found that in that consultation we talked about possible civilian casualties. Isn't that right, official? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I'm gonna double-check it all now so I can say it really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u428	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u429	Yeah, that's the question we're looking into. But the trust rule also applies here. If I say that here and you don't trust me, you should actually table a motion of censure, but okay. I am going to have that confirmed in writing, but the reconstruction found that SMO talked about possible civilian casualties. This has also been mentioned once in a report out to the Foreign Office. Is that right? Yeah, that's right. I'm gonna double-check it again, but it is. This is not reflected in the decision-making list of the SMO. That's not to disguise me here at all, because if it had been there, I could have known it in June 2015 in any case in a state-of-the-art sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u430	But you've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u431	That wouldn't have been a problem either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u432	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u433	So I'm not running away from that. The only question was, did you know about it? I have answered it honestly: it is not with me; I have no remembrance of it. If you reconstruct it, it might explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u434	I'm gonna stop you, too, because it's really gonna be a repeat of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u435	Sorry. Yeah, that's what I thought. I want to join the class, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u436	No, Mr. Baudet. The Prime Minister will come back to the question you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u437	To complete my image and for my understanding, when did you know about the civilian casualties?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u438	In a state-law sense, at least from 26 May 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u439	That too has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u440	I've told you that three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u441	That too has been said. I suggest that you take the other two points...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u442	And again, no problem if I had known in June 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u443	That is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u444	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying two more points. I will also try to answer a few questions. Of course, there's an inconvenience. If you look back now, you will find that all the steps we had agreed to go through in case of signals from civilian casualties have gone through. That's all happened. At the same time, a small public source was known at that time: the famous 70. I think you should now find that in order to have the whole picture in the future, knowing that that is a public source, unconfirmed et cetera, it would be good to put that kind of information right next to the confirmed information. That didn't happen at the time for all kinds of good reasons. But I think this is better for the future. Because I think there's a lot of discomfort that the number 70 has stayed in such a small circle. As a result, the link could never be established. They were messages in the international media. The only way you could tie it to this bet is if you knew those two were looking out for each other. That was known to a number of people from the Defense Department through that CENTCOM report. I think it makes sense how it all went down. CENTCOM will later say itself that it cannot be established. It's very likely, but the numbers aren't or aren't. Nevertheless, for the future, I think that it is useful and better for the image and context that it is shared. The second is how you make sure this ministry happens differently. That was actually Mrs Belhaj's question. The SGP and a few other groups have also raised the question of how to organise it differently in the future. In fact, that has already happened. We have a different structure. The SMO still exists, but there are now two consultations in the cabinet. There is a structured consultation every few weeks on all the foreign affairs that are going on. That's the board that deals with international affairs. For example, there is talk of international missions and all kinds of things. Furthermore, unlike in 2015, we have the Security and Intelligence Council. There we talk to the people who are directly responsible for the services. We're there with the NCTV, the chief of police, the CDS, Foreign Affairs and so on. In that combination it is my conviction... You don't want what went wrong in the future. You want to prevent that information from being known to the individual members of such an SME and that it may be communicated to their ministers, but that you do not have a joint consultation. In such a case, it is very important that you can discuss this together. For that, these two forums are now in place. One is the RDIA for the part not covered by the services. I see that Mr Wilders thinks: interesting part of the debate. The part that falls under very confidential is done through the RVI. That's settled now. I can see that now. Those things are all coming up there now. Again, no reproach to the past, because it went neatly as it was arranged at the time. I believe that this structure can be used to the future. That is specifically the point made by Mrs Belhaj. And the Prime Minister should take the lead role, as Hugo de Jonge would say, also bearing in mind the Iraq investigation. These are the two final conclusions on my part, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u445	And that's what you were done with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u446	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u447	It is good to hear that new systems are being put in place now, so that this can no longer happen. That's how I hear the Prime Minister, but maybe he can confirm that as well. It shouldn't happen anymore that a random ruler doesn't know something or forget something and there are meetings that aren't made of reports and that after a few months or years everyone thinks: hey, what happened? I'm gonna miss that part. You may not have to call the word "fault." I don't care what you call it, but you have to give us something to understand why you've decided it should be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u448	That was not on this issue. In the formation of this cabinet, we have re-established the whole system of sub- Councils. There were already experiences in the previous cabinet with the way in which the intelligence services were talked about. The conclusion was also that we needed to talk much more structuredly about international issues. I think that, at least a few years ago, we chose this new plan with the start of this cabinet or perhaps just in the previous cabinet. I can't guarantee here that something like this will always be shared. Yeah, that guarantee... But I can say that it is very likely that you will avoid the risk of the pilarisation, so that a pillar, a representative in an SMO of the State or of AZ shares it or does not share it with its own ruler. Besides, it doesn't necessarily have to be. In the case of General Affairs, the counsellors are in a lot of discussions. This is mainly to ensure that they can inform me very quickly when it becomes relevant. Of course, that report from State and Defense will be more direct, because it's really their core business. You then prevent that from happening one-on-one and that there is no joint consultation between directors. That's now settled in the RDIA and the RVI. So I do think the answer to that question is yes, but it is not a 100% guarantee. I can't give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u449	Mrs. Belhaj, your microphone is down. Maybe you should try another microphone. No one can hear you, maybe you should...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u450	... push him. The batteries are dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u451	I understand that you describe very technically what new things are actually organized so that people are better informed. But if you try to explain to the average Dutchman how it works at the top level at which you work, what do you say about what happens if you forget something? That could happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u452	Again, you say again that Jeanine Hennis' suspicion was a certainty. I object to that. She said she suspects she's informed me. I'm sorry, just a little sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u453	Good. Minister Hennis suspects that she has informed you, and you state that you no longer know if that is true at all. Then there are two people who can always do that, both of whom don't know something exactly anymore. I would also like you to say: 'That should not happen in the Netherlands, but we are all people and it happens. Then I organized something as Prime Minister. I have now whispered to someone: hey, why don't you help me keep these elements on my guard, because I can forget something someone might have told me." Let me put it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u454	Well, that didn't work. Sorry. It's not carefully formulated. No, I'm being accused of forgetting something again. It could be, but there's no certainty. There is a suspicion of information here. But we'll agree again when we talk about how you can prevent that information from coming together. I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u455	Finally, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u456	That part is important, and that's why I asked for it. What have we learned from the Davids Commission before? Are there any elements that are also at issue within your Ministry of General Affairs? No, we need more coordination when it comes to such issues. But it's also about the human aspect. Perhaps one day there will be another Prime Minister who will be able to say that he is no longer sure if he has been informed. What have we organised on the basis of your experience and the complexity that you now explain? If you just explain it to a Dutchman, what would you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u457	Then I would say again that in the question there is an assumption that I do not share, but I will leave that for a moment. Let's talk about what we agree on. You want this kind of thing to be discussed between the relevant rulers all the time. In addition, there is simply the consultation that deals with military operations. It's just gonna happen. But what you want to avoid is that there is not a regular discussion between rulers under the leadership of the Prime Minister about these missions in the sense of how things are going. This is partly done in relation to other major foreign policy issues or specifically to matters relating to national security. The Defence and International Affairs Council is one and the Security and Intelligence Council is the other. That is currently contained in the structure we have. My answer would then be... That's not because a mistake was made at the time. There was then work within the structure that there was. That procedure has been followed and I cannot blame it at all. But the point of the inconvenience on a few points has to do, I think, with the fact that those rulers are discussing the matter with each other. I think that is now completely secured in a structure. But I can't guarantee that anything ever goes wrong again, but that chance is really minimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u458	All right, then... Mrs. Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u459	Finally, Mr President. Can the Prime Minister indicate what he thinks about how it went? Does he think that's a pity or a pity? Shouldn't it have happened like this? Can he give that another qualification?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u460	No, I'm just saying I don't blame anyone. It all happened the way we agreed. But we all feel the inconvenience, too. That is that the 70 from that public source is not more widely shared at that time. I don't blame anyone for the structure of that time, but I think you need to make two arrangements right now. One. This kind of public information is shared, as soon as the Netherlands decides to investigate potential civilian casualties through a Dutch commitment. That's got to be the trigger, not that public source. The trigger then is: we have reason to investigate. Hey, then you're gonna lay there in addition to what's been reported publicly. In this case, that did not happen. No blame for that, but in the future we will have to do so. Two. The structure that we now have, both for the intelligence part and for the whole foreign policy, has been secured in the Council of Ministers under my direction. I therefore believe that it is now well settled in the future on these two points. I'm really convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u461	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u462	Mr. Chairman. I would like to go along with the last point, but before that I shall start by saying the following. In carrying out missions, as the Prime Minister said, we are doing as much as possible to minimise the number of civilian casualties, but unfortunately, as many Members of your Chamber have said, we cannot really rule out civilian casualties. I would also like to say that, as Minister of Defence, I have great respect for the pilots who have to carry out this difficult work. I think it would be a good idea to do that again here explicitly. I also looked back, of course, as Mrs Belhaj said. I also said something about this when we started discussing the budget. When I think about this now, following on from the point where the Prime Minister ended, I come to the conclusion that it is a question of recognising that our actions can kill citizens and that we are going to get to your Chamber there, Mrs Belhaj asked for clarification in good time towards the future. The Prime Minister ended with that in terms of the administrative structure, but I would like to say something about that in the direction of your Chamber. For me, then, every victim matters. The same applies to the defence sector. That's important to say here. When I look at how we want to do this differently in the future, because you are, of course, involved in your support under Article 100, I think it is important that, if the Cabinet asks your Chamber for support for Article 100, I continue to inform you adequately, but confidentially, about the implementation of that mission, especially if there is a suspicion that our actions have resulted in civilian casualties. That is all the more so because your Chamber must be able to continue to provide this support throughout the deployment period. That is ultimately what it is all about, even here today, when you look at the future. That is why we have also included in our letter the new standard that when Defense starts investigating potential civilian casualties, it doesn't matter whether there are 7 or 70 of them, we will inform your Chamber confidentially as soon as possible. That's what you've been informed about. In doing so, we can take your Chamber directly into account in the security considerations at that time. We can also indicate these considerations in your direction. We can also talk to you about what is or is not allowed in the context of public transparency at the time. I think that is particularly important. That is also in line with what the Prime Minister has just said. Your Chamber will also be kept confidential about the outcome of that investigation. That's part of it. It is, of course, about periods in which we operate, but then you are informed, and then, I think, we recognise much more the position of the Chamber, which we ask for support in operating under Article 100. We will do so immediately, as we indicated in the letter. A number of Members of your Chamber have also spoken about this. We didn't write that down for nothing. That, of course, is also in line with the inconvenience we were just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u463	There is an interruption, but I would like to see how you have built up your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u464	I shall now turn to a number of specific questions put to me, Mr President. That's how we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u465	Brief question, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u466	...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u467	You always go to the wrong microphone. It doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u468	That's life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u469	Well, there are worse things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u470	It's good to hear we're more informed as a room. But that will not help us if we cannot then do our job in an optimal way. So my question to the Minister is whether she is also willing to look in due course with the support of the House for possibilities so that the Chamber can also get reports in technical briefings, that they are stored, that we can possibly get the documents for us so that we can ask critical questions and therefore really make the best use of what she is offering us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u471	Sure. We must, of course, take care of that, because if we are going to do this and if we are going to take it seriously that you can continue to follow it, there must be a system for that too. It's about confidential information. But we need to be able to record it properly so that you can follow it through the process. Otherwise, you won't be able to follow. Well, that's part of what we're talking about. Mr. Chairman. There are a few questions left. The first question is from Mrs Marijnissen. She asked if we were prepared to make all of CENTCOM's reports public. The CENTCOM reports are classified reports from the Americans, not ours. We can't make them public. They are highly classified and it is not up to the Netherlands to make them public in that sense. Then there is Mr Klaver's question about the Pentagon's press briefing on 5 November. We were aware of that, you asked. In accordance with the agreements made within the coalition, the spokesperson told the journalist on request about the coalition attack in Hawija. He did not make any statements about which country of the coalition was responsible for the attack, even though he had just been explained by the Prime Minister, other than a reference to public sources that were there. That's what happened back then. Then there is Mr Kerstens' question about the final report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u472	Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u473	...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u474	You're also going to the wrong microphone. It's broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u475	Just now, journalists from NOS and NRC have posted an online email from CENTCOM asking for confirmation of the number of deaths. In that e-mail is simply confirmed by Colonel Ryan I quote him in English because the e-mail is in English: the strike to the VBIED factory caused secondary explosions that unfortunately killed 70 civilians, desperate the precautions the Coalition took to mitigate civil casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u476	Yeah, that's another question. That is the question asked by Mr Bosman. That's another question, but I'll get back to you on that, because I know that e-mail. We've seen it, too. I brought it to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u477	I wasn't finished with my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u478	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u479	That's a confirmation we're getting of the number of deaths that's fallen. That's about more than "it could be so many." The question is really asked how many deaths have occurred and CENTCOM confirms to the public, or at least to media outlets, what the number is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u480	That's a different question than the one about the Pentagon on November 5th. This is the question that Mr Bosman has asked me about the reportage of Nieuwsuur and the reports from NOS and NRC on this subject. I did see it. We saw it, and we found it strange that it happened, just like Mr Bosman thought it was strange. That is why we have simply asked CENTCOM for clarification. It seemed like the best thing for us to do. In response to my request, CENTCOM indicated that public sources are indeed claiming that some 70 victims have been killed. CENTCOM's investigation concluded that civilian casualties were most likely caused by the secondary explosion. CENTCOM has also really repeated that the investigation was unable to confirm the specific number of civilian casualties. And it is also unclear to CENTCOM why the spokesperson concerned has deviated from the official conclusions of that report vis-à-vis NRC and NOS. I have the e-mail that confirms that. I can have it distributed to you through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u481	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u482	Then there is Mr Kerstens' question. He asked about the final report on Hawija. Indeed, there is never a final report, a so-called close report, released by CENTCOM. As we also indicated in the letter of 22 January 2016, CENTCOM confirmed to us orally that the investigation had been concluded for them. As a result of this, the Defence Department set in motion the follow-up steps, as we also wrote in the letter on page 4. That is the reality that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u483	A brief question, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u484	And in one go at the right microphone! I read in the letter last Monday evening that CENTCOM has recently been asked whether or not there is a final report. The Minister now refers to an earlier communication from CENTCOM. Why has there been any recent inquiries? Was there any doubt? Did the DOD have something like "we want to know more about this than we've known so far"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u485	As the Prime Minister has also explained, we really wanted to know everything in preparation for this letter. We really did everything we could to get all the facts out of the way. At that time it seemed appropriate to ask CENTCOM once again. They told us: no, we are sticking to the oral communication we made at the time. That is what we have literally written down in the letter, as you rightly quote. It does say: recent research shows that indeed a final report, or close report, on Hawija, has never been drawn up. That is the reality that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u486	The Minister states that she really wanted to know everything before last Monday evening's letter and that she therefore asked. I will not faintly say that this was apparently a little less when it came to the facts, because at that time the question could have been asked again. I have asked the Minister whether she is prepared to carry out such a final investigation itself or to ask the Americans to do so, especially since it has become clear that until today there is actually no clarity about the number of civilian casualties. I think we all find that very unsatisfactory here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u487	CENTCOM has closed this investigation. That's how it is. That is what we have explicitly asked for, and that has been confirmed to us. It is not unusual for that to happen. There are many more studies that are closed without a close report. That's what it is. They just finished this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u488	Mr. Christmas, very briefly. Doesn't it work anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u489	He'll do it. Just the chairman didn't do it for a while. I mean push the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u490	That's so lame!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u491	Yeah, and I just said I wouldn't make a lame comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u492	But you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u493	Yeah, now I did. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u494	Very lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u495	I won't do it again, Mr. Chairman. At least not tonight. CENTCOM has been investigated, so to speak. It's what it is, the minister just said. But is the Minister himself prepared to carry out a final investigation in some way, so that the number of civilian casualties can be determined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u496	CENTCOM is the organization that has the most knowledge to do this. They're doing this, too. With all the knowledge they have, they have indicated that there were probably 70 civilian deaths. That's what it is. We do not have that knowledge ourselves. I will come back to Mrs Belhaj's question, if that's all right with you. She had linked it to the request she made to me last time in connection with the fees. I would like to say a little more about that. Mr Voordewind's question was partly addressed in the Prime Minister's reply. He also asked me a question: why no action was taken after the publication of NRC and NOS. That is a point we discussed extensively in the previous debate, but I can say this about it. In the months preceding the publication, my ministry was reviewing the transparency policy. That is what Mr Voordewind said, as I promised your Chamber. We had already done that, because we had adapted the entire weekly review of defence operations, as we are now proposing to do with retroactive effect. We reported transparently to you about where we flew, where we threw bombs and the locations. We were reviewing that transparency policy. I also reported this in the AO of 28 May last. This has been a very careful process, with the desire to be transparent always having to be balanced against security interests. That's still my job. We just didn't finish before. That is the reality that I also changed a few weeks ago. The final steps of the process had yet to be completed. So I could only inform you in my letter of 4 November about the policy change that we have made. You have rightly said that we, the Netherlands, have for the first time taken responsibility for the fact that we have caused civilian casualties in the cases just mentioned. It just wasn't before. I'd have preferred it different, but this is reality. What are you going to do next to the Prime Minister's point of view, to get the right information to the Chamber in the future, the lessons learned? I just explained the new standard. When the DOD launches an investigation into potential civilian casualties, regardless of the number, we will report this confidentially to the Chamber as soon as possible. Then we can also include you in the security considerations, which I have just raised in your previous question, and in what can and cannot be done in the context of transparency. In my letter, I also indicated that, in the case of future air operations, there will be sufficient capacity to adequately monitor cases where civilian casualties may be caused by the use of Dutch weapons. That is what it is all about: every time the link to the Dutch arms deployment. I would then like to enable your Chamber, as I have just said in reply to Mrs Belhaj, to carry out its supervisory task in this sense, publicly where it can, but confidentially where it is necessary. We're gonna have to weigh that every time. We will also make those security considerations clear to you. In addition, much more attention is needed for the improvement of the entire political awareness and the provision of information to the Department of Defence. I replied last time to Mr Stoffer that we are working on this. I'm sure I'll invest in that. Mr Van Helvert asked for the new policy in the same way. Of course, that goes right in; that is the intention. At least if we operate, we'll do it right away. We will then take up the practical agreements that Mrs Belhaj made with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions. As far as I'm concerned, that shouldn't take long. You also talked about the retroactive disclosure of the data about our bet during the first deployment period, as we have now done in the year 2018 in the weekly review that we have always published. I really need to see how fast that can be technically done, because we need to make a commitment to that. I can't see that right now, but we did agree to start immediately. We will start working on this right away and we will report it to you as soon as possible. I think that is enough to add. Mrs Belhaj had a number of questions. Ms. Belhaj asked about the D.A.'s office messages. They cannot be made public because they also contain classified information. Mrs Belhaj also asked about the settlement of claims and the investigation, in that combination. We discussed this last time. You know that the purely legal answer to your question on the settlement of damages is that it is up to Iraq itself to deal with the damage caused by the request for military support. That's the question of liability. After all, we operate in Iraq at the request of the Iraqi government. We have already talked about this, but as we have exchanged, that is not a satisfactory answer, not for you, nor for me. That is why I have promised that we will figure out how we, as the Netherlands, can take a step in voluntary compensation and also do something about it to the community. I told you to do so as soon as possible in the previous debate. Now Mrs Belhaj asked if we could link more of a factfinding mission to that. I fully understand the desire to verify things 100%, but, as has also been changed, this is going to be very difficult after four years. It is also really a question of whether such a fact-finding mission is going to produce exactly what we do not know yet. What we now know is that the destruction was great. Restoration is necessary. And we have to look seriously at the concession. We must realise that the chances are very small that we can verify everything 100%. We need to be realistic about that. Above all, I want to make sure that any compensation goes well there. That's what a motion was about on your part. That's a challenge in itself. I can imagine we'd be better able to do that if we were in the place ourselves, in Hawija. Or maybe an NGO can play a role in that. I cannot say any more, because there too we have to look at the security situation and so on, but I am prepared to seriously explore the possibilities for doing so. The safety of our people also plays a role in this. We need to realize that. I always have to keep a close eye on that. That remains my responsibility. Of course, when we get there, we can also collect the information about the fees and look at the community. But I do not want to give false hope to the Chamber by giving the impression that we are getting all the facts on the table, because we did not get that on the table through CENTCOM, which knows most about it. I have promised you 5 September that I will come up with a proposal as soon as possible on what we can do with the allowances. For me, low-threshold is really important. That's what we've exchanged. That is also an explicit aim. Ultimately, it is about the balance between low-threshold and ensuring that the compensation ends up with the right people. That can also be help for the community in general, we have said. It's gonna take a while to figure that out exactly. I'm willing to see if that can add anything, but I don't know if it's real or can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u497	I want to know if you have answered all of Mrs Belhaj's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u498	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u499	Yeah? Brief question, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u500	First, the answer to the questions about the D.A.'s office. The Minister states that this is confidential. Then my question is: how long is that confidential or can we see it confidentially? As a result of Mrs Karabulut's questions, the following questions were raised: There's no date on the letter; I've been bothered by that before, but okay. It is up to the prosecution itself to inform us more about this. So, as far as I'm concerned, you can come back later with a letter stating exactly how we deal with it. If the state's attorney's office has finished something, can it be shared with the chamber? Perhaps that could provide more clarity. That's question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u501	The D.A.'s an independent organization, so that's not up to us. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u502	It's a good thing the state's attorney's office is independent. Then I'll have to try another way. I am very pleased that the Minister is here, partly at our request, to examine all the possibilities for finding out how many civilian casualties there are. I think it would be the first time that the Netherlands would take up its responsibilities so explicitly after everything that has happened. In fact, I will be tabling a motion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u503	A brief question, Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u504	I actually had another question that had stuck with me after the last debate with Minister Bijleveld. She replied to a question from Mrs Belhaj of D66. She said that after the impact of the weapons, it was actually immediately clear to the kites that there was a secondary explosion. Now my question is: what is actually reported right after such a mission? If at that point the kites already see that the situation is wrong, that there is a secondary explosion and that there may be a lot more going on there, what is reported to the Netherlands from the mission area and possibly from the Dutch at CENTCOM?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u505	It'll be reported immediately. That's what an after-action report is about. That is also stated in the letter. That's what the kites normally do. An after-action report is being made. Then there is also an assistant prosecutor present, and he also reports it to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Based on this, all studies are started. That is also stated in the letter. That's the process as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u506	However, in the previous debate, the Minister says that former Minister Hennis was briefed on 9 June 2015 and that the figure of 70 civilian casualties was not necessarily mentioned, but that there was much more collateral damage. Then the Minister says: the pilots themselves, of course, saw that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u507	There's no difference of opinion. The pilots saw that, of course. They report on that. That's what an after-action report is about. In the previous debate, we did indeed talk about what was going on in that briefing. I couldn't release CENTCOM's information back then. That's still not possible, because it's highly classified. Someone was sent to Qatar; that's what I told you. That's the one you're quoting again. But there's no difference. An after action report is the beginning of the whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u508	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u509	For my understanding, it is already clear at that time that the kites have noticed that something has gone quite wrong and that there have probably been a lot of civilian casualties. You say in the debate that it is sent directly to the Chamber in such a CENTCOM report. You should've known by now. You say it literally in the previous debate! You say: "Then they could have expected, on the basis of the information that was available, that many civilian casualties were likely to have been included. Those were ordinary citizens, so to speak, and IS'ers who were present and died." That is what you are literally saying about Hennis' briefing on 9 June 2015 in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u510	The pilots saw there was a major secondary explosion. We all exchanged this in the previous debate. An after-action report will be made on this. That secondary side, so the explosion of that bomb factory, caused that collateral damage and most likely also civilian casualties. Of course, the pilots saw that. They saw that, because they didn't expect that. There's no misunderstanding about that either. At that time, I also considered the fact that they carried out their work precisely and meticulously, as Mr Bosman said once again today. But all this has already been changed in the previous debate. There is no difference between the fact that on the basis of that after action report everything is set in motion, the briefing that took place afterwards and the investigation that followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u511	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u512	So there's footage of that. There's a report on that. There's footage from the F-16 of what happened in that secondary explosion. With regard to the provision of information to the Chamber, I would appreciate it if that could also come to the Chamber, possibly classified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u513	It can't be. That's really not the issue. I have one question left. Mr Bosman asked about CENTCOM. The research is also aimed at civilian casualties. The Prime Minister has already said that. CENTCOM shall be the body conducting that investigation. Where there is a suspicion or a notification of civilian casualties, standard investigation shall be launched by CENTCOM on behalf of the coalition. That's the procedure. That's the agency that best can do that. Those were the answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u514	Thank you. The Prime Minister would like to answer two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u515	I had two more posts in the first term, which I may be able to answer now. Then they can be involved in the second term. The first question was: has there been contact with Jeanine Hennis to find out why she made the mistake with the set of 23 June. The answer is yes. Former Minister Hennis pointed out the incorrect response on 23 June. Her answer is that she doesn't know exactly how this happened. In her view, it was not deliberately misreplies. That was her response to the question. The second question was about the SMO and my discussion with Baudet on that point. There has been talk of possible civilian casualties and asked what I based them on. This is based on an internal feedback of Foreign Affairs of 4 June 2015. On the SMO, it has been reported that the Iraqi media has been positive about this coalition action, but that the possibility of possible civilian casualties has been mentioned. As has already been mentioned, this does not appear in the list of decisions. Those were two open points from the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u516	I'm looking at four MPs. I'll allow one question and then we'll move on to the second term. We are not going to re-examine the debate through two supplementary questions. I'm gonna finish the list. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u517	I understand that Mrs Hennis now admits that she made a mistake. This concerns the actual questions of 23 June. I just checked them out. But we also had an AO on 30 June and the same questions were asked there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u518	That's the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u519	There she gave the same answer three times, namely that there were no civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u520	I wasn't there. I can only say that the question has been put to her. I understand that question was also about the AO. What I just said applies not only to the question set of 23 June but also to the AO. That's all I know. This is it. She says, after she has been reminded of that error, that she does not know exactly how it happened. It was, she says, in her opinion at least not a deliberate wrong answer. That's her reaction. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u521	Mr Voordewind, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u522	Then the crucial question remains how it could have made this mistake, not once but four times in total, while it has seen and been briefed on the CENTCOM report. We now see that these 70 civilian casualties have been mentioned. How could you have had that information and denied it four times on 23 and 30 June at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u523	I just talked about that. It is no longer possible to reconstruct what did not go well there. As far as the CENTCOM report is concerned, I have said that it has seen this in a constitutional sense. I don't know if she's read it in detail. But the fact is that there is a mistake in that set of 23 June and in the debate. Her reaction is: I don't know how that turned out, but I didn't deliberately answer the wrong way. That's her reaction. That's all I got. That was a question from the Chamber and I tried to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u524	About the AO. Here too, Mrs Hennis says, on a question from Mr Van Bommel: zero. Mrs Hennis mentioned the zero: "Mr Van Bommel is right: I can never say zero, of course. I never did..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u525	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u526	Mr Van Bommel says: "The zero has then been taken back. We won't come back to that again." It'll help if we all read the pieces. That's okay. I have another question for the Minister. I asked about the certainty with which she called the 70 and how she saw it in relation to what has now come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u527	I'll do the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u528	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u529	Mr Bosman's first point is justified. There's a mistake in the letter of June 23rd. Next it seems to be repeated in an AO, but later she nuances it, actually also on the indication of Van Bommel. She says: you're right, I can't say that hard zero. Nevertheless, something went wrong. She responded by saying that she doesn't know exactly how it went, but that she certainly didn't mean to answer deliberately wrong. At the request of the Chamber, we checked her response. So that's been verified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u530	A brief question for you, too, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u531	So there's another report going to the State Department than to General Affairs? Was the report to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more comprehensive on that point? Did it say that there was talk of civilian deaths?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u532	Yes, that's correct. The Foreign Minister, who was present at the SMO on 4 June, gave a feedback to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It says what I just read. So it's a report out from that SMO from the representative of the State Department to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u533	It's very loud in the room!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u534	So Koenders knew, too? That's why Asscher's not here tonight! Now we understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u535	Look, Koenders responds to Hennis' remark that she told him what she suspects she told me, too, that he has no memory of it. He already responded to what he knew in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u536	So that's wet. It turns out that story doesn't add up. Thanks to a report sent to the Foreign Office, we can now reconstruct that it was the subject of that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u537	And that's an internal feedback from the State Department. Of course, I don't know if he's read it and so on. I can't tell you that from here. At least it says here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u538	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u539	The question was also not what Koenders knew, the question was whether there was talk in that SME about civilian casualties and what I based them on. So this is where I base it. I had that checked, because that had become me in the run-up to this debate. So I've just asked what we're basing that on. So that is based on this internal feedback to the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u540	Mr Baudet, everyone has had the opportunity to ask two or three short questions at the end of the debate. The same goes for you, and you may ask one last question. Then I'll go to Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u541	So now the question is: if that has apparently been discussed, on the basis of what information has that happened? And if there have been photos there, the question is what was in those pictures and whether that was so serious that it is completely unbelievable that there has not been any further scaling up to the Prime Minister and that there has not been any alarming talk about it, indeed. I think that, on the basis of what we know and what newspapers have published and so on, it is completely unbelievable that it has only been mentioned in non-alarming terms. You have just told Mr Klaver that there has probably never been such an impactful explosion involving so many civilian casualties, at least not in recent history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u542	Mr Baudet is really confusing a few things. It's Jeanine Hennis' memory of what she told the Foreign Minister and probably me. She speaks in the terms mentioned by Mr Baudet. This is the SME of 4 June. I have said that there has been talk of possible civilian deaths. This is the advocacy, the basis for it. That is not reflected in the report. That is Mr Baudet's question. I think I answered it with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u543	We already had an illustrious list of Rutte who has no memory and of Minister Koenders who has no memory. Minister Hennis will now be added, who has no memory of why that mistake was made on the 23rd of June 2015. All the key players involved suffer from collective amnesia. That's quite a coincidence. No one remembers what happened here. Indeed, the Prime Minister said in an interrupting debate that I had with him: yes, an indication of so many victims, that does not happen often; that may be the first time. Then you wouldn't have any memory of this being shared? None of the people involved have any? Apparently, there is no further question to former Minister Hennis as to how she might have answered those questions wrong. And the Prime Minister is satisfied that she has no memory of it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u544	Here too, I think Mr Klaver is really confusing a few things in this debate. I'm allowed to say that. What was asked of Jeanine Hennis here is: do you remember what happened with the answer to the questions of 23 June? I just responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u545	A response has just been given to this: I do not remember the answer to the question addressed to former Minister Hennis on 23 June. All those involved to whom anything is asked, but really all of them, give...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u546	About different things. You're confusing everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u547	No, no, no, no, no. I'm not getting everything mixed up here. This is about one and the same case. The Prime Minister can't take no for an answer, but this is about the attack on Hawija. This is about the civilian casualties that fell there. Subsequently, there have been various forms of involvement of directors. Coincidentally, all those rulers have no memory of what happened there. This is a line of defense. This might just save you today and keep the support of the coalition and perhaps even part of the opposition. But it's not credible. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u548	We're going to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u549	A short response, however, Mr President. Mr Klaver is getting a lot of things mixed up again. This is very specific about the error in the question set of 23 June. This was my reaction to that. In addition, Mr Klaver has entered into this debate on the assumption that something is deliberately withheld in the context of the extension. I understand that from his whole reasoning, the debate he is having here and his contribution in the first term. That's what he's trying to build. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u550	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u551	Everything has to be in that evidence. I repeat, there is no cover-up. There is no way that we thought: oh dear, the extension is in danger if this comes out. None of that is on the table. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u552	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u553	Mr. Chairman. This evening we talked about a huge mistake with many civilian casualties, most probably the largest number in the history of the Dutch armed forces. We've asked for the truth a lot of times. We have done this twenty times, even in this debate. What we got as a room was lies. Mr. Chairman. It is unbelievable, irresponsible and unacceptable what the cabinet is showing here tonight, and above all that the truth is still unclear to this day. That's why I have the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite constant pressure, the Chamber has not been fairly informed about civilian casualties in the fight against Islamic State;]] [[declares confidence in the Minister of Defence;]] [[expresses confidence in the Prime Minister;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that much remains unclear about Dutch involvement in civilian casualties in the fight against Islamic State;]] [[noting that the Court was not informed in an open and fair manner;]] [[decides to conduct further investigations into Dutch involvement in civilian casualties in the fight against Islamic State in the short term by means of a parliamentary interrogation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Kuzu, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Baudet and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-674]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Kuzu, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-675]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u554	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u555	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate. I would also like to thank the Cabinet for its reply. I thought it was hard, I'll be honest. I still think that the cabinet is too easy about this. It's too easy when it says it has no memory of this. Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you once again why I think it is so important that this information is available. What matters is that we are responsible for what is happening. Mr Bosman mentioned this in his speech. I think he's the only one here who knows what a kite is going through when he finally has to fire a rocket. I would like to stress that the military are taking action, but that we are politically responsible. In order to really carry that responsibility, we need all the information. All information. I think that is important, because it has often been about the appreciation we express for the military. In the end, it's about whether we're pulling that responsibility towards us. Because there has been too little attention for how many victims were there, I do not think that we have drawn that responsibility towards us. That is also a bad signal to the military who serve for us there. A motion of censure has already been tabled. 71 seats supported that motion. It doesn't happen often. The last time my group tabled a motion of censure, before we did so against this minister, was against Jan-Peter Balkenende about the Iraq investigation. It's pretty unique when we move on to something like that. Does this minister still feel the support to be able to continue working? Does she see herself as the person to be the figurehead for all those men and women in the Defense Department? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I wholeheartedly support Mrs Marijnissen's motion on parliamentary questioning. This isn't done. The cabinet may think it's done now, but I'm sure there'll be more documents coming up, and I'm sure there'll be more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u556	Thank you, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u557	We want the bottom stone above. If necessary, we will hear all involved under oath.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u558	Mr. Klaver, everyone has the same speaking time. You have spoken for more than two minutes and that is not fair to other colleagues. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's one question left of me. Mr Bosman just referred to that. I assume that the Minister of Defence is about to answer why she said so firmly in the debate on 5 November that she was personally informed at the beginning of 2018 about 70 civilian deaths. What were her sources then? Mr. Chairman. It has been indicated that the procedures for actions involving potentially civilian casualties are being improved. It is good that the need for this is now recognised, because it is urgently needed. I would add that, as far as I am concerned, the procedure, the alertness, must be different and better. I concluded my contribution in the first term by saying that I want to see a Minister of Defense who is addressing this notorious defence culture of as close as possible rather than as transparent as can be, and not a minister who is self-sufficient. A minister who ensures that we can rely on what is being said, because it is bound by very important decisions, rather than doubting them. There is a difficult task for the Minister, especially after the previous debate we had with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u560	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u561	Thank you, Mr President. There were two possible scenarios: either the cabinet deliberately withheld information from the Chamber, or they are genuinely as laconic as civilian casualties are caused by Dutch actions. Both scenarios are really unacceptable. The people affected by Dutch action could not hide from that bomb. The cabinet is hiding behind every trick it can come up with: protocols, we didn't know, no, it wasn't a lie, it was a mistake. And if the Chamber has very serious doubts about the cabinet's motives for informing the Chamber, whether confidential or not, when extending the mission, for example, and the Council of Ministers does not agree with everyone, then there is the ultimate show of power: you cannot prove all that. That's good! On top of all the information itself, people who ask critical questions say: as long as you can't prove it, it's not true. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party, thanks to the SP Group for all the work it has been doing in this area for years and for the critical questions it has raised which led to this debate, has co-signed Mrs Marijnissen's motions. Trust is gone and it is high time that the truth emerged through parliamentary questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u562	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked one question in the first time I did not receive an answer, but I understand that. That was the question whether the wording attributed to Mrs Hennis, namely that her communication would not have been alarming, was conceived by herself or by another. I understand that question has not been answered. It doesn't need to be answered either. I am sorry that I have not seen the motion of censure of the SP. I would have liked to sign it with you. We are certainly going to support her, like the other motion, on the parliamentary questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u564	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u565	Thank you, Mr President. It's all a lot worse than we thought. We have been lied to, we have been deceived, and the lies are simply reduced to mistakes by the Prime Minister. That's a disgrace. It's like there's some kind of memory virus or lie bacteria in the VVD and anyone who comes into contact with Rutte. That is, of course, unacceptable. The Chamber is, and that is a fact, twice lied to by Minister Hennis. Cabinet members, at least three, knew that. The Prime Minister also knew that. He was informed by Hennis. And that it wouldn't be alarming is, of course, a crazy excuse. Unbelievable. The lies of this Hennis have not been corrected by the Prime Minister or those other ministers. Not on the 23rd and not on the AO Extension mission on that 30th June 2015. That means that the Chamber simply agreed to an extension when it did not have that information. That's a disgrace! If you were in the army, you should have been court-martialed and gone long behind bars. We have taken a decision here as a democratic body and we simply did not know any relevant information about those civilian deaths. I am not saying that my party, the PVV, would have voted against, but we should have known. It's mafia practices we didn't know. That's unforgivable. The only lesson learned for this Prime Minister must be that the cabinet resigns. This time Mrs Marijnissen of the SP beat me to it. That hurts me, but I do give it to her and I supported her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u566	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u567	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Helvert and Detective Bosman, because their line of defence was better than that of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence. The information was known to the Ministry of Defence and General Affairs. Rutte should have known. That is precisely why we have co-signed Mrs Marijnissen's motion for a resolution on the withdrawal of confidence. We have also co-signed the motion on parliamentary interrogation, because the bottom stone has to be above. In addition, I have two motions. The first one is about the former Secretary of Defense, because no one in Iraq is plumbing her. It is also about the international standing of the Netherlands. That is why it is important that we ask her through the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u568	I'd start the motions right away. Do you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u569	Yes, I even have two, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u570	That's why. If you don't, you're in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u571	Yeah, I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the former Minister of Defence, Ms Hennis, has shown error in informing the Chamber of the civilian casualties resulting from Dutch military action in Hawija;]] [[calls on the Government, through the Prime Minister, to inform the former Minister of Defence that the Dutch Government has the view that the former Minister of Defence can no longer work as a UN envoy in Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that as a result of Dutch military action in Hawija, Iraq, there are at least 70 civilian casualties to be regretted;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should make every effort to take care of the victims and the survivors;]] [[calls on the Government, with a large delegation, comprising at least the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, to travel to Hawija to express sympathy towards the victims and relatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Azarkan and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-676]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Azarkan and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-677]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u572	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u573	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind. Right? Yes. Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u574	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we have had this debate. The most important thing for us is that it remains remarkable that Mrs Hennis does not have a good memory of the fact that these mistakes were made at that time. Perhaps even more important is what we stand for now and what is the commitment of this cabinet to be more transparent and to ensure that we are working on the lack of information, as we have had as a Chamber. That is why I welcome the Minister's commitment to inform the Chamber when investigations are being carried out into civilian casualties, possibly confidentially, but publicly if possible. I appreciate that. There will also be work on political awareness in the department. Those are important lessons. Secondly, my group believes that it is very important to proceed with compensation and compensation. That is why we also wholeheartedly support Mrs Belhaj's motion, which she is about to table. The suffering has been done, but let's see if we can compensate these people for the damage done to the village, but above all to the next of kin. I hope that we will have a generous commitment to this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u575	Thank you. Excellent within the speaking time. Mr Klaver has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u576	Mr Marijnissen has tabled a motion on a parliamentary questioning. I know that the Christian Union is very critical of all the amnesia there is. That is what they have shown in the debate. Shouldn't the Chamber simply continue to question itself? Does the Christian Union support this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u577	I said that I found it remarkable that Mrs Hennis now says that she has no knowledge of how she could have made the mistake. I wonder if we can get more information about this in such a parliamentary interrogation. I understand it's under oath. But what we now think is the most important thing is that this minister, who we are dealing with now, is taking lessons and that we are going to improve the provision of information to the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, this can also be done in confidence, because at least we will know what is going on. And again, our second important point is that this compensation will be paid to the people who have been so affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u578	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. The tension between what you can and cannot know is palpable in this debate. I think it is very important that this cabinet says: we want to show more transparency than before. The transition from the old to the new way of communicating is at this point in time. That's palpable. I am also pleased that the Minister says that she is not going to start with this in the future, but that we are going to start with this transparent policy right away. That's what we're doing now. I think it is good to think as a Chamber about how we deal with this kind of difficult confidential information, because it can also hinder you in the debate. So we need to see how we all handle this well. I think it is very important that the Minister of Defence also wants to talk about this. Madam President. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is also appropriate to say in this debate, when we talked about the armed forces, that we are really very proud of the men and women of our armed forces and the crew of the aircraft. They also saved a lot of people there in Syria and Iraq. Well, that's a good thing to say. Also with the shooting down of the weapons factory, where that terrible accident happened with that secondary explosion of bombs from ISIS, they weren't bombs from the Netherlands, many people were saved who couldn't have been killed by the weapons of ISIS. In that sense, I think we should have great respect for the work that is done there on the edge of the cut, with the highest pressure there is and with great care. Much respect and thanks from our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u580	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of GroenLinks. No, on behalf of D66. How could I be wrong about that? Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u581	Mr President, it's not an insult, you know. I think there has been a good debate. I have heard a minister say clearly, as in the previous debate, that a mistake has been made and I apologize for that. I did not hear the Prime Minister use the word "mistake," but I did see some kind of awareness that a lot of processes in 2015 were not such that such a thing could happen, regardless of who remembers what. I think it's good that those lessons are now learned. I think it would be interesting to inform the Chamber just a little bit more than it is now in this little debate, so that we can really understand it. Then I can explain to everyone I meet how it works. It would be good if the Prime Minister or the Minister said: yes, I think it would be a good idea if we sent it to you again, so that we never have to have such discussions again. Mr. Chairman. I do have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that research journalists from the NIS and NRC in Iraq investigated the incident in Hawija last summer and spoke to relatives and authorities there;]] [[noting that different (non-governmental) organisations talk about different numbers of potential civilian casualties;]] [[Whereas, at the time of the air attack, limited access to Hawija made it difficult to obtain details of civilian casualties;]] [[having regard to the opinion of CENTCOM that additional research was necessary but could never, in the end, make a precise determination of the number of civilian casualties;]] [[considers that public transparency and accountability for civilian deaths is important;]] [[Whereas pursuant to the motion for a resolution adopted by Mr Belhaj, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on 671 (27925) the government was asked to mobilise funds for voluntary compensation towards the survivors and communities in question;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts, where possible in cooperation with NGOs, the UN and local authorities, to carry out on-the-spot investigations into the civilian casualties resulting from the action of the Netherlands in Hawija and to inform the Chamber of Progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Belhaj, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Kerstens, Mr Voordewind, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-678]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u582	Mr. Chairman. If there are civilian casualties in a war, that's very bad. However, that is not the question before us tonight. It's about whether the Chamber is well informed. First, a mistake was made in 2015. Then information came to the Chamber that should not have gone to the Chamber according to the protocol in force at the time. And then that information turns out to be wrong. In the previous debate, the Minister of Defence indicated that she was aware of the situation last November. She apologized to us. We accepted it at the time. That is why we did not support the motion of censure. The Prime Minister gave a clear answer, namely that he knew on 3 November. In that respect, our line will not be different either. In the past, therefore, there is no question in our minds. For the future, we said last time and also this evening that there really must be a change of culture. He's been appointed even more strongly tonight. As far as we are concerned, we can go on with this Minister of Defense, with this Prime Minister and with this cabinet. We will therefore not support the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u583	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Prime Minister for their clear answer. It was a strong debate, but it is also about something. In addition to the fact that we have discussed here, it may be even more about our own responsibility. I can agree with Mr Klaver's fine words. He said that we need to be more aware of the consequences of the choices we make here in this Parliament. We must be aware of the consequences of sending men and women to war zones. There's always consequences to that. We must therefore be prepared to bear those consequences. Or you have to say in advance: we don't do it. But that must be clear in all the debates that we all have. That is why it is good that we are having this debate. Maybe we should have done that in front. But it's the way it is. That is why it is a good thing that we are talking about it now. There were two questions left from my side. The Secretary of Defense was very sure about the 70 victims. She'd come back to that anyway. I would like to know what happened to that certainty. Does the Minister also agree with me that determining a number of civilian casualties now is an impossible task? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u585	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions and clarifying them, but I did not actually hear anything new other than during the debate on 5 November. The Chamber was mistakenly informed on 23 June 2015. That was a mistake and a generous apology was made for it. As far as I'm concerned, that's enough. I still find it unprofessional and confusing that there is talk in the documents about a presumption of information and that it is plausible that ministries have been informed. I hope that will not be possible in future. I will not support the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u587	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u588	Thank you, Mr President. The rulers cast smoke curtains after smoke curtains, and again the Chamber is not well informed. The rulers say that these images from the F-16 cannot be shared with the Chamber. But I had it checked out for a while, and it turns out it's been done before. The CDS Middendorp once gave a briefing on the progress of Dutch F-16s against IS in Syria. In addition, images from the F-16's have been shown. RTL News has shown the images or some of them in two broadcasts, on April 9th and September 11th. The first time was in 2015 and the second time on September 11, 2017. Perhaps it could be dealt with in this parliamentary inquiry, but I would ask you once again to share these images with the Chamber in one way or another. That seems very important to me. I wholeheartedly support the motion of censure and the parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u589	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u590	Madam President, colleagues, this debate was about trust. This debate was about whether it is somehow credible that the Prime Minister was not aware of perhaps the most gross military mistake, blunder, that we have made in recent decades. Incredible number of civilian casualties! The Forum for Democracy fully supports our military, but this is about the functioning of democracy. This is about the functioning of our Parliament, and it is about whether we can still trust this government and this Prime Minister. The answer is no, and that is why we support the motion of censure. This is an issue that transcends precise policy questions. This is really about the question: is there trust? The Prime Minister has said that a few times. He said, "In the end, it is a matter of trust. Do you believe me or don't you believe me?" In this debate, things have emerged at so many times, which I think is: oh, but so are they; oh, so is that; oh, this is ragged; everything is ragged. The whole story's raging on all sides. We cannot allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u591	Mr Baudet mentioned the F-16s' commitment as a blunder. And two sentences after that he says again: yes, but the Forum for Democracy has great respect for our men and women. Mr President, this is just a knife in the back of all the military!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u592	Do you know what a knife in the back is? That there is still not enough equipment for our military. That there are still no good amenities on barracks. That we should regularly submit parliamentary questions, because we are once again receiving reports from soldiers in barracks where there are legionella bacteria and where there are no voting rooms so that they cannot vote. We hear that there are no internet connections and that there is no good connection to the home front, and so on, and so on. It is also a knife in the back against our army that the VVD, which has been in the government for so long, is not bringing defence spending to the level required. These are all issues that the Forum for Democracy stands for. Of course we always support our military, but in this situation, with what has happened here, with these civilian casualties, we can certainly talk about this as an issue that should have been discussed here too, especially before extending such a mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u593	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u594	We must note that Rutte continues to speak incredibly unreliablely about what he knew, what other people in the cabinet knew, what he remembers. All these things are unacceptable...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u595	Mr. Baudet, stop. I'm gonna stop this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u596	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u597	This is gonna be again... We've just had extensive defense budget. I notice everyone's awake all of a sudden! That's okay. Mr. Bosman, just for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u598	No, it's not a personal fact. The important thing is that Mr Baudet writes tough texts on supporting the defence industry. We missed him in the DOD budget. I missed him with amendments. I missed him with a counter-budget. In short, tough lyrics, hot air, nothing to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u599	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u600	I find it heart-warming that I've been missed. The only thing I can say to Mr Bosman is this. Don't worry: at the next elections, we will return to such a large extent that we no longer need to miss any debate for agenda reasons. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u601	Thank you. Then this brings us to the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u602	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u603	Mr. Chairman. I'll take the first four motions. Then, with your permission, Mrs Bijleveld will answer a few more questions and the final motion. The motion in part No. 674 is the motion of censure. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 675.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u604	You don't have to give an opinion on a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u605	Okay. I don't have to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u606	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u607	Okay. The motion in part No. 675 I also advise against. We believe that everything, the whole story of the facts, is in the letter. We therefore advise against the motion in part No. 675. Then the motion to part No. 676. In the previous debate, the Minister of Defence has already expressed a "unadvised" vote on a similar motion. I want to repeat that here. It's a ridiculous motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 677. Also dissuade, with reference to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u608	I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u609	Thank you. There is one question left, one from Mr Bosman. Yes, I forgot it in my first term. Mr Kerstens agreed to this question. I have to tell you, I've read it back, too. I said it twice too firmly. I should have said that it had not been officially established and that we should have talked about'very likely'. There's no misunderstanding about that. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 678, the motion by Mrs Belhaj c.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u610	Mr Bosman has an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u611	There was another question about the ability to determine the number of civilian casualties. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u612	That's right, that's the second question. We probably can't, because CENTCOM can't. And that's the one who had to do it for us. Those are the ones who are also best qualified. I would have answered that, but you just asked me for the second time. I agree with the way you put it. And with apologies, Mr President, I forgot the second question. Then I would have stayed with the motion in part no. 678. In the conversation with Mrs Belhaj, I have already said something about this issue. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, but I don't want to offer false hope. I will do my utmost and take a serious look at it, as I have just done, also with the involvement of NGOs to see if it is possible to go there. I will also include it in the motion from the previous debate on this point that has been adopted. We must look at the security situation. I do not want to give false hope about being able to identify the number of civilian casualties. That is what I said in the debate with Mrs Belhaj, which is why I thought I had already answered the question. But we are doing our best to look precisely, as I promised you on the previous motion, how we can come to a settlement as easily as possible or a compensation, looking at the community. I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. We're gonna see how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u613	Mrs Belhaj, short question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u614	I think that's very good. But just a moment before the correction to the interruption of my colleague, Mr Bosman. CENTCOM couldn't do it then, given the security situation on the ground. They were limited by that. But now the security situation is such that journalists can go there, that there is a form of stability, that people can be interviewed, and that the graves where people lie can be identified. I understand that the Minister cannot guarantee it 100%, but that certainly means that there is plenty of room to do the maximum to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u615	Certainly, the situation is different, but it is still unsafe, it is still the case that we are also operating in Iraq with an anti-ISIS coalition. So, as I just said, I can't give you 100% guarantees. If a journalist does a number of things, it is really something else than when military or an NGO does. That is why I think it is wise that NGOs should also be discussed. But I just have to make that relativization, because I don't want to give you false hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u616	I do not support the argument of the motions that we have tabled and which have been so dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u617	Mr President, one more time. Mr Kuzu will not like it, but I really refer to the reaction of Ank Bijleveld to the motion in part No. 676. I liked that one very much. I have nothing to add to that. So it is strongly discouraged. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 677. We're not gonna do that. The Belhaj motion outlines a number of sensible routes, but the motion in part No. 677 is over the top. We were right to work there. In addition, things can happen that we did not foresee, but we are opposed to what is being asked here. That is what Mr Kuzu has to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u618	Finally, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u619	I wonder why it is over the summit to visit, as Prime Minister, with a delegation, an affected area for which we have been responsible. What's that all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u620	We are not responsible in the way that Mr Kuzu means. We're part of a coalition. I was very pleased with what Mr Bosman just said in the direction of Mr Baudet. We support our military. We support the pilots who run the F-16s, the pilots who have done a great job there. And indeed, Mr Van Helvert also said it: it is tragic if civilian casualties fall, but that factory exploded for a reason as it exploded. That means there was a lot of dangerous stuff stored there that could have killed thousands and thousands of people. Mr. Kuzu, for that reason I disagree with the motion in part No. 677.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u621	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-10.u622	It is customary to vote right on a motion of censure if there is no objection. That's not the case? Then we'll vote on one motion in five minutes. We will vote on the rest of the motions next Tuesday.
