ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u1	The next item is the final budget law of the Ministry of Health (EZK), the Ministry of Health (LNV) and the Animal Health Fund 2018 (35200-XIII) (LNV part).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u2	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us. We have the modest number of five speakers from the Chamber. We are all going to keep it short and pointy, because it is the last day of parliamentary year and we do not want it to be night work. Well, it's gonna be night work, but we don't want it to be morning work. So we're going through it fast and flashy. The first speaker, Mr President, has asked to speak for 30 minutes. Well, I'm sure a zero has been put down there too much. Anyway, I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, who is going to keep to the subject. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with a word in advance, because it is indeed exceptional that we should discuss a final law on the last day before the recess in plenary. It was like this. Normally, these final laws come into the procedural meeting, as it is called, and then a legislative consultation is decided in committee. On a proposal from the CDA, the committee did not want to hold such a legislative consultation. I remember saying that you can't; you can't block the treatment of a law by a majority. But the committee stood firm. There was no small-scale, earlier committee consultation. That is why we are here now, because the Animal Party believes that the Minister should be accountable for its policy in 2018. If the route is blocked through the committee, then you wait until the law is on the list of hammer pieces, as it is called, and then you say: well, I'd like to talk about it, so I'd really like to break the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u4	Yeah, great, we're gonna talk procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u6	Mr President, I would like to say something about history and the report. This budget was a combined budget of EZK and LNV. There has been a legislative consultation EZK/LNV. In it, the Party for Animals had every opportunity to speak. So she doesn't have to blame the CDA. It was just efficient: not treating one thing in two places. It could have been just like that. That's what I'm saying before the historiography.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u7	What could have been done is very nice, but blocking a legislative consultation if one member needs a legislative consultation on a final law is simply not possible. The consequence is that it is now plenary. I do not mind, but we should not complain that it is the last day before the recess and that we do not want morning work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u8	Let's get to the point, a little bit of substance towards the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u9	A little bit of content towards the people. I think it's important to explain things like that, because otherwise you're wondering why that's all happening here. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore about the policy announced by the Minister in its 2018 budget and what has come of it, the accountability and the final act. Now the Animal Party has looked carefully at what is in that responsibility and, above all, at the budget. I look at the general objective. The Minister wrote: The Ministry aims at internationally leading competitive, socially responsible, safe animal and environmentally friendly agro-fishing and food chains. The budget also included: the Minister is responsible for promoting transparency in the Dutch food chains, ensuring food safety, implementing adequate veterinary policies and monitoring and enforcing animal welfare, manure, nature and food safety regulations at the primary production and slaughter stages. But what did we see in 2018? I will begin by monitoring and enforcing the regulations in the area of manure and nature. The minister was only in office for two weeks when the NRC wrote a big article about the huge manure fraud in the Netherlands. The Party for Animals was not surprised, because that is the way it works in the most cattle-proof country in the world. A very small country with a lot of animals. Where are you gonna put all these feces? They are illegally dumped or traded. The minister was angry, because she didn't expect that from the cattle sector. She said we didn't know. But in the course of 2018 it appeared that the Ministry did know and that there were reports, not only with warnings about the fraud but also with clues on how to solve that fraud. Not only the reports that were in the Ministry had an extensive march towards how to solve that fraud, also the Planning Office for the Environment and later in the year, because nothing happened, the Public Prosecutor knew them. If you continue to breed, use and kill so many animals, you will never get that manure fraud solved, because the fraud incentive is one-on-one attached to it. I can imagine that the Minister was shocked by the manure fraud when she was just in office, but in the course of 2018 she was able to take the facts, especially those about which solutions do work and which solutions do not work. So my first question is: can the Minister explain why she has not chosen these solutions? Is there an ancient culture in the Ministry that does not want the real solutions to be implemented? Are there people who do point out to the Minister the need to shrink the livestock in order to get out, but who is not being listened to? Is it a culture thing at the Ministry or has it been a political consideration not to choose what all those experts have advised the Minister? The second thing I would like to call the Minister to account for is that she says that we are responsible for monitoring and enforcing the rules in the field of nature. In 2018, the European Court ruled that the ruse chosen by the government to circumvent nature law, the Programme Approach Nitrogen, would be legally unsustainable. Nevertheless, the Minister continued to authorise the granting of permits to livestock farms. Then how can the Minister insist that she has complied with the law? The construction that was invented was already against the law. And when a ruling came out of the European Court of Justice, she just continued to fail to comply with the law. The question is why she did this and what explanation she has for it, given her own responsibility to comply with the law, which applies to everyone in the Netherlands. The government has to be the first to comply with the law properly. Mr. Chairman. Then the general objective of the Ministry of Agriculture they write it themselves animal-friendly food chains. I would remind the Minister that some animals are not allowed to do so and others are allowed to do so. The breeding of tails is prohibited. I think that is right, because cutting off body parts is directly at the expense of animal welfare. You don't have to explain that to anyone. You understand that right away. It is forbidden in dogs, cats and horses, but it is allowed in pigs. Why is that and what is animal-friendly about it? Remove mammals from the mother after they're born. Everyone knows mammals have live babies. If they get a boy, they'll have milk. They're called mammals for a reason. We do not allow kittens or young puppies to be removed from their mothers immediately or shortly after birth, but the Minister is happy that this happens with cows and goats, with calves and with goat lambs. If you'd like to be philosophical, you call that speciism: a distinction by species. However, the Minister does not do any philosophy in her budget - that is not necessary either - but she does say that she is aiming for animal-friendly food chains. So if you've already acknowledged that it's not okay to cut off body parts in dogs, horses and cats, and if you've already recognised that it's not okay to take animals that are just born and need their mother and breast milk from their mother in dogs and cats: why do you think that's okay with calves and goats? You already know it's not animal-friendly, you've already named it. Why does the Minister allow that? And then the Minister is responsible for promoting transparency. That's what she says. In 2018 she made a series on YouTube called: Boeren in Nederland. The very first episode was about forest pigs. Those are pigs that live together in small groups. They still have their tails. The females get a litter of pigs once a year. They're not taken away from her, they don't cut tails. I was wondering why the Minister chose to show a completely non-representative part of Dutch livestock farming. I think there's a handful of pigs being kept this way and there's millions locked up in stables they can't get out of. Why does the Minister choose to create a series of Farmers in the Netherlands, at the expense of the taxpayer, from the 2018 budget, which in no way contributes to transparency about the Dutch food chain? It's just a commercial. The other video she made was about a meat chick holder with one star. "Just dropped" is called those chicks. The chicks were maybe a few days old. There were also images of chicks that were maybe two weeks old. But we didn't see any footage of the stable right before they went to the slaughter, which still produces the most crucial images. No, we saw images of cozy, yellow, fluffy chicks that had all the space, because they weren't fully grown yet. But six weeks later, of course, that's different. Animals with one star have also been bred for rapid growth. Why does the Minister choose to show the cosy picture, if her own goal is to promote transparency in the Dutch food chain? The last picture we saw, the last video about Boeren in the Netherlands from 2018, paid from the Ministry's budget, was the dairy farm. With romantic images of a farmhouse between the trees. No cow or calf in sight. While the Minister still has the enormous calving mortality on her plate. The fact that calves are removed from their mothers immediately or almost immediately after birth makes them sick. The calf mortality rate is enormous. The solution is not to take the animals away from their mother and not to focus on intensification. But I don't hear the Minister about that. Why is she hiding all that painful footage from livestock farming, which is the reality, and chooses to pose with her ministry as the PR office of livestock farming? This does not in any way justify the transparency it claims to want to promote itself. Sometimes images come out, for example because someone has been hired by a pig farm, or by a catch team. These are ploughs that catch animals in duck or chicken farming and put them in crates and then go to slaughter. When these images come out, the Minister says things like: this is not representative, or: yes, there are also companies where things are going well. She does so without any justification showing that this is actually happening. While on those images, it is confirmed by the supervisor NVWA that what is just allowed in the Netherlands. Quite a lot is representative, isn't it? Cutting off the tails of piggies, keeping sows between bars. So why does the Minister shoot into the reflex that always shows the sector, too? It always says: it's not representative, it's a rotten apple............................................................................................................................................................................................................. If she is okay with sows standing between bars, she should also be able to say honestly to the Dutch citizens, for whom she is sitting here: this is how things are going here; this is allowed by law; this is what is behind hammacks and slices of bacon. The sad conclusion is that activists volunteer to do the work the government doesn't do. As a thank you, they are criminalized. The amount of slander and slander that is poured out upon these people is to cry. I was wondering if the Minister knew the activist movement in the Netherlands. Does she know about the existence of the Save Movement? This is an international movement, which has been active in the Netherlands for a number of years. Those people stand at slaughterhouses and keep wakes there; you can also say "saves" or "vigils." Those are there to be there for the animals, who often don't get any drink. They give the pigs or the chickens some water and they make images of the animals that live there their last minutes and are actually waiting for their death. That is peaceful, it is legal, and it is also meant to inform people about how animals actually stand before they are slaughtered. There are footage of pigs with severe injuries that the minister doesn't show, but these activists do show. There are images of chickens that can no longer stand up from misery, and we know that from the meat chick industry, which these activists show, and the minister does not. Those people are being criminalized. Is the Minister prepared to take note of activism in the Netherlands, including street activism? In street activism, people are on the streets, with footage from livestock farming, and they are having socratic conversations with people who are interested. They ask questions like, did you know this was happening? What do you think of that? Do you think we can deal with animals this way in the Netherlands? Did you know that this is behind the products for sale in Dutch supermarkets? I believe that, in view of its own objective of promoting transparency, the Minister should be open to this activism, deepen himself and ensure that it has a rebuttal when these people are slandered. The amount of hate they get over them, sexism as well, given the reactions placed on the images that Save Movement puts on Facebook, the dogs don't like it. I've never heard the Minister say that. I'd like her to come with me sometime. I understand that she was addressed by someone from the Save Movement and that she was invited to attend a wake once. I hope she is prepared to do so. Another important reason for having this debate is that there is a lot going on with the NVWA. We have incredibly long drawn the cabinet's attention to the culture of fear that we suspect at NVWA because of all the signals we get from people who want to do their work there, but are simply opposed by their leaders or colleagues. In 2018, we did that, but in the years before that. Within the NVWA there are people who want to do their job well, but who do not get the chance to do it. The question is whether these signals will be sent to the Minister. I asked that in 2018. Then she said: I do not feel that the NVWA is a culture in which things should not be discussed; I have talks with NVWA, and my impression is that the NVWA has a policy that allows that kind of signals to come through. But by now, we know better. In the meantime, we have seen this in the pilot carried out in the northern slaughterhouses. There had always been continuous supervision by the NVWA. Then there was a pilot in which another department of the NVWA went to watch. He came in there and said, "What's happening here can't be done at all." So there's been a NVWA'er there for years who wrote down: there's nothing going on here. Then there was another NVWA man, and suddenly the biggest abuses were found, which even led to prosecution by the Public Prosecutor. The D.A.'s office had to say, "Oh, boy, we know this now from one slaughterhouse, but we think that happens in other places too. At the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, therefore, not at the request of the Minister himself, nor at the request of NVWA, two other slaughterhouses were also examined. What do you think? Same story. The owner of that slaughterhouse is sending letters to the Minister of Agriculture, which is the signal that he wants his own NVWA'er back, because he always said that nothing was going on. That's the culture we're talking about. There is no maintenance and the Minister has kept that under the hat until the prosecution intervenes, until RTL came out with images and until RTL came out again with images. Research has been carried out on northern slaughterhouses. It's fine that that happens. But what gives the Minister reason to think that it is only there that is going wrong and that the NVWA works in all other places in the Netherlands, in all other slaughterhouses and in all livestock farms? Those signals aren't new. In the general consultation on the NVWA that we started in April, I reminded the Minister of earlier research, after which Secretary of State Dijksma had to admit that his harsh conclusions were that the incentive to not maintain could be stronger than that to maintain. Why? You've grown up with the company, you don't perform, you don't feel like performing and your supervisor is working against you. That's a big deal. The Minister is now taking action, but as far as we are concerned this is too limited. I have advocated extending this research not only to northern slaughterhouses, but also to all slaughterhouses and other areas in which the NVWA should monitor. In a slaughterhouse, for example, there may be an argument between the slaughterhouse and the N.V.A.A. who does want to do his job and says: this cow is very sick, you cannot slaughter it. But how did that cow even get to that slaughterhouse? Who put that cow in the truck? That happened on a farm, didn't it? And where's the enforcement there? Why isn't the Minister wondering what's going on there? Those signals, that the NVWA cooperates far too much with the company they have to control, are really not just about slaughterhouses, and really not just about the north. Mr. Chairman. I have some illustrations of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u10	May I interrupt you for a moment? You've made some excellent points, in a way you can do alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u11	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u12	We still have 14 VAOs to go. I'm gonna have to hammer them all. I have another debate to open for a third term. I would appreciate it if you could go through the rest of your speech a little pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u13	Mr President, I understand your point. But the Chamber is in the middle of a debate with the Minister about the NVWA. That's what we started in April. The second deadline would take place in June. Meanwhile, although 1.7 million animals are slaughtered every day in the Netherlands, surveillance is not in order. I think it would be a good idea to ask questions about this to the Minister before the summer. But the coalition said no, we won't do that until October. I do not think that is wise, so I would like to ask my questions about this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u14	Here comes another falsehood. It wasn't the coalition that thought that. There was a broader majority who thought so, so not just the coalition. The Minister has also indicated that an investigation is under way. Mrs Ouwehand, think before you throw such falsehoods into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u15	There's an investigation going on. The Animal Party has said that the Chamber should be given the opportunity to ask the Minister if that investigation is going to do what is necessary. I do not think it is sensible, not even for the people who work at the NVWA and who are wondering whether or not they should report to that research office. Isn't that gonna bother me? We know that the NVWA and the Ministry don't have a very good track record. It doesn't usually end so well with people ringing the bell. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to have an opportunity to explain this a little more tonight. How safe is that for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u16	You have another great AO about the NVWA, said in my mind on October 2nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u17	That's gonna be in October, when the investigation's done. We want people to come in now and be safe when they do that, don't we? That's the point. Then you're not gonna put that off until it's done? Mr President, I am afraid that your efforts will not be successful. I'm just gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u18	You're just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u19	...dedicate my time to these questions. Yeah, 'cause it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u20	Brave forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u21	Brave forward, that's how we do it. Mr. Chairman. I've faced the Minister before with the following situation. In slaughterhouses there is an NVWA member, who has to check the health of the animals. If the animal is dead, then on the other side of the line is a KDS'er, which is the private judge, who has to look at food safety. However, we have already received these signals from the Minister, and that is not the first time that there have been slaughterhouses, where the inspector who deals with the carcasses, found that animals have been sent, have not been sedated into the slaughter line and have not been horribly sedated. They had broken pelvis and didn't go well, and the slaughter process just continued while there were malfunctions. Then the KDS'er, who is not even in the service of the NVWA and who should only be concerned about food safety, is thinking: what is happening here? He walks to the N.V.A.W.'s office and asks, "Would you please maintain?" But the NVWA man just stays outside smoking, shrugs his shoulders, looks the other way and all those animals just go through the slaughter process. The same KDS'er reports to the Party for Animals that he sees carcasses full of manure and bile during the inspection of carcasses of pigs. Due to the extremely high speed of the slaughter line, intestines and other intestines are cut open. He also sees employees using dirty knives and not washing their hands. He warns the responsible NVWA veterinary surgeon. He shows him what those carcasses look like and asks him to intervene, and he doesn't. The rate of slaughter shall not be reduced. One day, there's gonna be 1,800 kilos of pork going to the destruction. So these animals have suffered for nothing and are killed for nothing and thrown into the destruction bin. That does not happen once, but every time and nothing is recorded. The only thing that is recorded is the results of a separate number of carcasses, with additional staff and with a lower tire speed all dirty pieces have been carefully cut off. The NVWA vet will be there when this play is performed. Result: a good report figure for hygienic work. Is there any contamination during the process? "No, that's fine; there's 100% enforcement," the NVWA says. That employee thinks: this is not going well at all. He reports the course of events repeatedly to the NVWA and to his own manager, KDS. What do you think? The owner of the slaughterhouse complains to the NVWA about the critical noises. And what does the NVWA do? The NVWA requests KDS, where this critical employee is employed, to transfer him to another company. So that is another signal that we have already heard from the northern slaughterhouses: we want our own NVWAs, who are not so difficult. And if there is someone who's giving you a hard time, then -he's gotta go. Mr. Chairman. My questions are, however, about the investigation that the Minister has initiated. Because I understand that this critical employee has knocked on the door of the minister and that the minister has sent him back to the top of the NVWA. He had all the documents and therefore has to speak again to the person in the position of power, who should be called into question. So the question is: did the minister know that he was sent back to the supervisor and that he himself had all the signals sent to the minister? The question is whether these employees of KDS can also report to the research office that the minister has asked for independent research. Until now, as I understand it, only NVWAs are allowed to report. It's okay if they do, but there are other people who have noticed things in the performance and enforcement of the NVWA. Is the Minister prepared to also ensure that KDSs can report? And maybe there are animal welfare organisations like Eyes on Animals who would like to report something, I don't know; maybe there are activists who want to report something. Last few weeks, with the heat stress, I got reports that the NVWA didn't want to perform, while people at the scene said: look what's happening. In short, is research being opened up to anyone who has anything useful to say? Is the minister really looking for the truth about what's going on with the NVWA? Can the Minister guarantee that the investigation is independent? I have just mentioned it because Mr Geurts of the CDA brought it up, but I understand very well that people at NVWA are very concerned. What if you work there and you know what happened to whistleblowers in the past? Then can you trust that you're safe at the research office and can you trust that it's independent? A follow-up question is: can people trust that the right research questions have been asked? A good form to ensure that I would like to hear what the Minister would say about this in order to speak to the whistleblowers themselves. The minister's predecessors have done so. Secretary of State Dijksma has spoken to whistleblowers himself. I can imagine that, when the investigation is complete, the people who have done their stories and reported things will want to look with the Minister at the results of the investigation so that, if they have any comments on them, they know that they are being heard. Apart from their own executives and outside the research office, there were still comments about it. Can the Minister undertake to do so? I would also like to ask whether the Minister can say something about the reorganisations which the NVWA would or would not threaten with. What can the Minister say about the sense of security that the people who work there, and who do want to maintain, must really have? The point is that their jobs will not be compromised in one way or another if the supervisor finds out that they have talked to the Examination Office. I don't know what's going on in there, but at least people shouldn't feel that way. Is the Minister prepared to say that there will be no redundancies and that she will do everything in her power to ensure that people who come forward are safe? Because it is of the utmost importance that NVWA break through that culture of not maintaining. Finally. The Minister has sent her responsibility for 2018. I have asked several questions about this. Despite the fact that the Minister is now conducting an investigation into the functioning of the NVWA, I remain of the opinion, and with my group, that it is irresponsible, while you know that there is no maintenance, to send 1.7 million animals a day to the slaughterhouse and to leave those millions of animals in those stables, without proper enforcement by the supervisor. What can the Minister say about that? How responsible is it to just go through with everything during the investigation? I understand that research needs time, but doesn't it have to be done to protect those animals? Shouldn't we stop exporting animals, for example? Should we not stop breeding animals until we can guarantee that animal welfare and food safety are effectively monitored? Is the Minister prepared to take a step in that direction too? Mr. Chairman. Finally. We said when this Minister took office that we see that there are difficult choices to make in agriculture. The minister's halfway through her period. I haven't seen much of it. I'd like to encourage her to pick up the ball after all. The analysis is just in the Ministry. She actually has all the important bodies in her back: the main advisory bodies of the government and the judges who support her if she said "I'm going into livestock farming now." She would definitely have the support of the Party for Animals and a large part of the parties in the Chamber. The parties who, despite all these signals and despite all these reports and despite the judgments of the judge still do not want to move, have really put themselves out of play. Mr. Chairman. I've got four minutes and 30 seconds left. I think I've done you a great service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u22	It flew over, you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u23	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u24	If you would like to make up those remaining minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u25	Want me to sing you a song?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u26	No, no, no, please don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u27	Oh, no. Okay. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u28	It's been a pleasure. The other speakers have given up speaking time, except for Mr De Groot? So is Mr De Groot. Then Mrs Ouwehand was immediately the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Is the Minister already able to respond to the points raised by Mrs Ouwehand? The next VAO is due to begin in 12 minutes. I would like it if we could use the room for another debate at 8:40 p.m. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u29	Mr President, what is more beautiful than ending the parliamentary year with a complete review of the year? That's about what happened here. I must say that Mrs Ouwehand has raised quite a few issues that have indeed been raised over the past year. In that sense, it is also appropriate for this day. Mrs Ouwehand has given many reflections from her point of view; let me make that point. Everyone here is free to do so, and it is also good that we can do so here. At the same time, I think there is something to be said about the issues raised by Mrs Ouwehand. But, Mr President, you have already indicated yourself: it is a full evening. And hopefully it won't be the last time we talk; of course it always depends on how long they leave me here. In general, I assume that we will talk a few more times, even after the recess. This concerns many of the issues raised by Mrs Ouwehand. We get another AO Animals in livestock farming, an AO about the NVWA, an AO about the PAS, because that consultation is, I believe, also inserted. I think that these are the moments when we can go into some of the issues that Mrs Ouwehand has raised quite extensively. She has asked a few more specific questions and let me try to answer them. The first question. First there's a rusted-up culture in the ministry? The answer is no. Why is the breeding of tails allowed in pigs? We're just trying not to let that happen anymore. The sector itself is also taking all kinds of steps in this direction. Why do you allow young animals to be taken from the mother? Because in certain cases it benefits the well-being of the young animal. Why do I choose to make the series Boeren van Nederland, a series that does not contribute to a realistic picture of the sector? I am sure that the images you have seen are images of farmers who are actually active in the Netherlands. To say that's not a good picture? They exist, Mrs. Ouwehand, and we have visualized them. Activists who are criminalized. I did indeed meet a number of them this afternoon and they had ample opportunity to express their opinion. I was asked how I feel about that, too. There were a lot of cameras and I got about everyone on my neck when I was asked what I think. At that time I said that I think it is very good that we can express our opinion in the Netherlands. That's what these people are free to do. I have also said that it is good at the same time to have respect for the different choices that are being made. I still think so. I think it is important, in a debate that does indeed sometimes evoke some emotions, not to always widen the gap between the different groups. At least that's not my bet. You also have to try to listen to each other and to talk to each other, but then you have to accept that there is different thinking. This applies to two sides and not just from one side to the other. That applies to both sides, and I still believe that. Do I know the activists in the Netherlands? Well, I don't think as good as Mrs. Ouwehand. I'm pretty sure of that, because I think she's going a little more into the circles of the activists than I am. But as indicated, I did indeed speak with a number of people at the vegetarian barbecue this afternoon, because I was there as well. I was also at the Binnenhof barbecue and I wonder if Mrs Ouwehand went to both barbecues. Maybe that's a question I'm allowed to ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u30	It's called entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u31	No, I've never been to the meat barbecue. I think it is fundamentally wrong that Members of Parliament should let the meat lobby fester themselves. The vegan barbecue outside is actually a protest against the intertwining of livestock farming with politics. It's a good thing the minister went to the protest barbecue, but she'll never find me at the lobby barbecue. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's talking about my question in a handy manner. You can always say: these farmers exist; so I'm making a series about that. The question I have put is prompted by the Minister's statement that the images that come out about the common livestock farming are not representative. Then it seems to me that she has a very heavy responsibility to show representative images herself. If you start a series about farmers in the Netherlands with forest pigs, forest pigs! While there are millions of pigs locked up in stables where they get sick of the air they have to breathe, where they walk around with swellings, where their tails are cut off, you have to reflect a little bit further than to say: activists have the right to stand on the street, but they also have to respect another's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u32	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u33	The Minister himself must show representative images, and she must go a little further than that it is not just an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u34	Those images that have been shown are real images from the Netherlands. They exist. I could almost say to Mrs Ouwehand that she should be happy with that, because she can also show: these are also options that we have with each other. I can't hear her say that. In particular, it continues to stress that in other cases things are not going well. I have also indicated in the past year where there have been obvious abuses, that this is not permissible. But where images were obtained in ways that are not legal or where methods that are not accepted in our rule of law were used, I also indicated that. Because I also think you should take that into account. And as for that fetching, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to tell you a secret. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u35	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u36	I was at the Binnenhof barbecue and I actually didn't get much food because there were so many cameras on top of me. And that fest, that actually happened a bit more at the vegan barbecue. I didn't pay for that either, but I really enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u37	That's good, because that vegan barbecue is paid for by donations from people who love animals. And the Animal Party pays neatly for its own share of what it eats there. But there's no commercial interest in that. It's really a protest. Anyway, let's have that discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u38	Why don't we talk about the barbecue at home or at the dragonfly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u39	That discussion does not go between the Minister and me, that is something from Parliament, and the President may be able to play a role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u40	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u41	What I'm really worried about, really sincere, is that the Minister doesn't seem to feel that, because of the choices she's making, she's giving the impression that her ministry is the PR agency of livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u42	Very good. And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u43	My question is: how come the Minister doesn't even seem to have that basic insight? If you choose the most romantic images, while the bulk is very different, and you don't show them...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u44	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u45	...then there's something wrong with your sense of representativeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u46	I think that is not a question, but rather a statement by Mrs Ouwehand. Let me now turn to the case of the NVWA. Mrs Ouwehand has spent quite a lot of time on this, and I must say that this is a very serious matter. And we take them seriously, too. I started the 2Solve investigation myself a few months ago, because there were more and more noises that things didn't go well. We said ourselves: we need to do research, not from the NVWA itself, but from an agency that can really operate independently. I put that research directly under our sg, that's the technical term, to indicate that the NVWA itself doesn't have a role in that. Our sg is the one...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u47	And "sg" stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u48	Mr. Secretary-General, I apologize, Mr. Chairman. The highest official of our ministry is the one who directs that investigation. We have called on people to come forward at various times, because we also really want to hear the stories from practice. When I hear that there is a fear to come forward, at least from here, I would like to say from this position: I guarantee that you will have no problem with that, and if you do get it, you can also turn directly to me. Mrs Ouwehand also asks whether it is possible for her to speak to the whistleblowers. She said "after the investigation has been completed." I think this is a valuable addition, because I think it is important that the researchers can do their work now. They really need to be able to investigate this and come to an independent judgement. I shouldn't sit in the middle of that, because then it won't be independent. As soon as the investigation is complete, I am prepared to engage with whistleblowers myself. That's what I'd like to say here. Mrs Ouwehand also asks whether all kinds of other organisations can apply for research. The research focuses very clearly on the NVWA and the processes surrounding the approval, including in the slaughterhouses in the North Netherlands. Then I think that we should be looking for that and that we should really delineate the research to the people involved or have knowledge of it from the organisation itself, so from the NVWA. Otherwise, I think that researchers will not only get certain organisations on the one hand, but also a lot of things on the other. This does not improve the speed and also the overview of the research. I really think it should focus on what they're doing right now. We are working very hard to complete that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u49	Speaking of speed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u50	Mr President, I'm almost done. Again, I'm prepared to speak to the whistleblowers upon completion of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u51	I would like to start the next debate in two minutes, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u52	Mr. Chairman. I still have motions, so I'm gonna file them in my second term. I'm really wondering something. I have already mentioned the situation with the KDSs who see a lot in slaughterhouses a few times. I think they have very valuable information. So I wonder why the Minister is not prepared to let these people into that investigation, because they have seen and pointed out important things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u53	I do not know the specific case of the KDS'er, which Mrs Ouwehand calls. I'll look into what's going on, because it's said I sent someone back. I haven't sent anyone back myself, but if it happened in my name or under my responsibility, I will really look into it. So I'll also see if that KDS guy can be spoken to by that research firm, because that seems to me to be valuable. He'll be working there in no time at all. So the people who are really working are, but I don't want to allow all kinds of NGOs into the investigation. Finally, the question of whether there will be redundancies. As I said yesterday, no irreversible steps are being taken in the whole process of reorganisation that may be started. That's not gonna happen until we talk about that 2Solve investigation. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mrs Ouwehand's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u54	I appreciate that. Is there a need for a second term? I'm gonna check the room. Ah, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u55	Mr. Chairman. For the people in the public gallery and the people who are watching at home, this is never the way a debate is going. I suggest that we do it more often, that the Party for Animals alone has speaking time. It would be nice if the Minister would do a little more work on the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u56	I have good news for you. I have just sat down with Mrs Arib and for the next two months you can stand in this room as often as you like. I understand your party is rich, so if your party pays for the electricity bill, it'll all be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u57	But then you won't be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u58	Not usually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u59	No. I find that somewhat uncomfortable, but thank you for the offer. It was very generous. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the commitments in the field of NVWA's research. I am really glad that those people who are wondering whether or not they can come forward, whether that is going well, before the summer, when this investigation is going on, have heard from the Minister that she really thinks it is important that everyone can come forward freely and that there is room for discussion with the Minister afterwards. I believe that this will benefit the research and that it will be in the interests of everyone. So thank you for that. Then I have an argument with the Minister about her responsibility for animal welfare and, above all, transparency about it. I'm not gonna bring it up for nothing. We've been hearing from the sector for years: come and see, everyone is welcome to come and see for themselves. When at the beginning of 2018 the images from a pig farming came out through Pigs in Need, the reaction of the sector was: this is not representative, it was made at night and anyone who wants to come see and make images is welcome. The Minister repeated this in her letter on the abuses in pig farming. The industry invites the press and other interested parties to come and see for themselves and make images, because "they have nothing to hide." That's what the sector said. I spent a whole summer wondering if I could look inside and make footage. It didn't work. A sector that says it has nothing to hide has a lot to explain. And I hear from the sector every day: come and see for yourself. Then I say: yes, I come to see for myself, but then I also want to make images, because I share that with the Dutch audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u60	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u61	Then I'm not welcome anymore. I think the Minister should get out of that camp. It stands for transparency. If you have nothing to hide, then you have to live up to it. I said "scissors" and I saw Mr Futselaar frowning a little. The Minister has to get out of that camp that always says: it's not representative, come and see for yourself. And then the door is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u62	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u63	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on transparency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of LNV is responsible for promoting transparency and chain responsibility in the Dutch agri-, fisheries and food chains;]] [[calls on the Government to fulfil that responsibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-XIII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u64	Mr. Chairman. On animal welfare, the Minister said: there will be another AO and there will be letters. Yes, but the minister doesn't live up to her commitments, for example about the goat's mortality. Another case: and the government does nothing, and the NVWA looks away. For years there were at those goat farms NVWA's who carried out an inspection. They all gave curls. In 2017, thanks to an inspection by a social organisation, Eyes on Animals, it suddenly appeared that the mortality on those goat farms could be 62%. Those animals are so sick because they were taken from their mother, that a third to two thirds of misery dies. Suddenly it turns out it's tears with spit in those goat farms. But that turns out to be because an outside party came to watch. Everyone was outraged about it and the government, then Minister Kamp, said: there will be a plan from the sector and there will be a progress report. This Minister has now twice failed to honour her promise in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u66	At the end of 2018 we would get a progress report on this. That's what we had to talk about. It came in early 2019. Then we would have a progress report by June, and that will now be September again. I understand, Mr President, that you are a little impatient, but imagine how the animals feel. Those promises that come and come and go, and there's always a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u68	So, Mr President, I would appreciate it if you could give me the time to just finish my speech here. If you were such a goat in a goat farm, I'd stand up for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u69	Well, that's a load off my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u70	That's right. Mr. Chairman. The minister's just getting away with it way too easy. There will be another letter, there will be another progress report. I also mention piglets' mortality. Ten years ago Minister Verburg said that this piglets mortality is too high and should reach 10.5%. That's still ridiculous, but let's go, there was a goal set. At the end of 2018 it appears that the sector is not doing that at all, and this minister is not even acting. All she's saying is, yes, I think it's irresponsible and you'll get another progress report. We were supposed to get it in June. It's gonna be September again. And that sector is going on and on. We read in the Farm that the number of piglets that have to throw sows is being increased even further. And the chairman of the POV, the trade union for those pig farmers, says: yes, ethics, ethics, you can talk about that, but it doesn't matter if people don't want to pay for it. Then I ask this minister, a minister of the Christian Union: do you see ethical issues like this? Is ethics only valid if a dime is paid for? In fact, I wonder what that is about, because because of the horrific swine fever crisis in China, pig farmers are now earning more, and I do not see any improvement in animal welfare being made with the extra money they are earning now. So, Chairman, that just pisses me off. You can say there's still something for the animals, but there's still something for the animals, unless you do it sometime. Mr. Chairman. That said, I come to NVWA. The minister has to get to work to really protect the animals, and there is research to make the NVWA work better. That's good, but you can do better than that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that many reports have been published over the past 11 years indicating that there are very serious deficiencies in the establishment and implementation of animal welfare and food safety monitoring;]] [[noting that there has been no improvement in improvement plans and reorganisations;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the external investigation into the functioning of the NVWA to all farms in livestock farming, animal transport and all slaughterhouses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-XIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u71	Finally, one final motion. That will reassure you, Mr. Chairman. The responsibility for non-functioning the NVWA and for looking away from all the signals that supervision is not working at all is also here. It is high time to examine the political responsibility for non-functioning animal welfare and food safety monitoring. The Animal Party therefore wants a parliamentary survey, so that it becomes clear who has been playing behind the scenes and who has played a wrong role in it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that many reports have been published over the past 11 years indicating that there are very serious deficiencies in the establishment and implementation of animal welfare and food safety monitoring;]] [[noting that there has been no improvement in improvement plans and reorganisations;]] [[expresses the need for a parliamentary inquiry into the functioning of the NVWA;]] [[calls on the Bureau to submit further proposals on the design and form of this investigation in this calendar year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35200-XIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u72	Exactly. We are organizing a parliamentary survey here ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u73	Thank you. Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u74	I have a few minutes left, Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank the Minister for her commitment in the field of NVWA's research. I think that's important for the people who are going to report. But the Minister will also really have to get to work. Perhaps this summer she will be able to use it to protect animals and keep promises. I mean not only the promises made by this Minister, but also, above all, the promises made to animals 20 years ago and which are still not being respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u75	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u77	It'll be so quiet for the next two months without you. Is the Minister already able to comment on the motions? There are three of them, one of which is addressed to the Chamber. It would be nice if we could do that in one smooth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u78	When I get them, I'm gonna treat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u79	Very good. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u80	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, two of which are addressed to me. The motion in part No. 21 calls on the government to promote transparency and chain responsibility and to fulfil its responsibilities. I've indicated before that we're doing the same thing, but that's for everyone. It's not just my job to be transparent. This task also lies with the sector and with all kinds of other parties in the chain. So I do not recognize myself in the remark that I do not fulfil that responsibility. I therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 22. That motion calls on the government to extend the external investigation of the NVWA. We're really working on that investigation right now. It is also important that we complete that investigation at some point. Some things have been added to that investigation, also on the occasion of new issues that came up. But I think it is also important that we talk about the investigation once and for all, and for that it should be possible to conclude. With a view to a speedy conclusion and discussion of the investigation, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 23. It's not addressed to me. It's addressed to the members of your chamber. I would advise against the motion, but it is up to your Chamber to make its own judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u81	Clear. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-41.u82	Tonight, what do I say? Tomorrow morning, we are going to vote on these motions.
