ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mrs Lodders, on behalf of the VVD, has the floor for her questions to the Secretary of State for Finance, whom I also welcome, on the screening of customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Every day thousands of people and goods enter our country through our air and sea ports. Customs plays an important role in keeping the Netherlands safe and offering opportunities to entrepreneurs acting abroad. The Netherlands is a beautiful country and the VVD wants entrepreneurs who continue to offer opportunities for trade while keeping the Netherlands safe. With the forthcoming Brexit there will be even more pressure on this important service. That's why the service needs to be in order. There are several reports that this does not always seem to be the case. A few months ago we had arms exports; we requested a debate on this. There have recently been reports of too high working pressure at Schiphol Airport, which means that no 100% checks on flights at risk are carried out. Now there are the signals about corruption and money laundering. And we read that screening when hiring new people is a joke. That scares me, knowing that 900 new colleagues are wanted for Customs. Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on at Customs? Are they incidents or is there a deeper problem? What steps has the Secretary of State taken and is he going to take to address these problems? And can the Secretary of State say anything about the screening of new employees? Again, it is about our safety and protecting our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, in the direction of the questioner: I think that in the introductory sentences a number of important things were put down, which I also strongly agree with from my own role. Customs is an extremely important part of the economic engine that is the Netherlands. Goods have to go in and out. This applies, of course, especially to goods that we like to have in our country. Customs is also responsible for controlling goods that we do not want to see leaving our country. In this respect, it is important that the questions are asked. We have been able to read in the newspapers this weekend about the fact that three Customs officers are currently part of a criminal investigation. That is deeply regrettable. Let me start by putting this down. That is regrettable, not only because it shows the picture that apparently there may still be incidents, including in the customs field, but also for all those people who work at Customs. That's a lot of them. They work very hard to make it an honest service, but they still suffer from the fact that they are also looked at when a colleague makes a mistake. Let me say that first. This really lives with Customs. It is not for nothing that a number of people have come out to say that they think it is extremely important to see how good they are doing. These kinds of incidents, because they are, of course, they don't belong. Let me say something in general about customs integrity and screening, because I think that is important. For Customs, integrity is pretty much the most important issue. This is not only a high priority, but it is also reflected in all the steps being taken, from the adoption of customs officers to screening during their work. That's really important. We must not forget that as we make the customs systems closer... As you lock the house better, the chance of pressure on the doorman at that house is increasing. That's what Customs realizes. That is why adjustments have been made in recent years, including following an incident in 2015 and 2016 after which a corrupt customs officer was convicted last year. That too is important. The image that you as a customs officer decide at what time you open which container, was created a bit in some interviews following the article in De Telegraaf. That doesn't make any sense anymore. As a result of the previous cases, for example, there is now an at-random system which means that you do not know in advance which shipment you will check as a customs officer. That's incredibly important. That is a point we have been working on. There have been more points that we have learned from. By the way, the screening depends on the function you perform. There are all kinds of legal rules for how you can screen people. Various restrictions are also included in the ARAR. We are currently trying to make the most of this screening at Customs. I really want to keep the word "laugher" away from me. But indeed, even if you screen someone you can do that through a vog, by screening or by looking at an environmental analysis of the past ten years.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. by even.........eveneveneveneven... even........... by even by even by even by even by even by The three customs officers who are currently suspected were in a group that had been screened a little more heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	There is also limited speaking time for directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	I get it, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to take a little time to point out that these kinds of points are not for nothing. Customs and integrity are so closely linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	That's what you said. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I was a little faster, so let's get this out of the way. I am glad to hear that the Secretary of State sees the problems and is working with them. The image that does come out is not only bad for the sense of security, but certainly also for the entrepreneurs who want to trade abroad and not least for all those people who do their job every day and want to make their office, customs officer, the most beautiful profession, and who work on our security and trade. On this point, I endorse the words of the Secretary of State. So I'm glad the Secretary of State sees the problems. I still have a concern when I read that fear of violence is increasing, such as chases and shootings. Two weeks ago, it was shot and kept quiet, if I can believe the newspaper. That cannot, of course, be the case. We see how it can go wrong with some public authorities if we are not on top of it, and we must avoid that in Customs, because it is too important for that and the interests are too great. How will the Secretary of State monitor this and keep the Chamber informed of developments, so that we are informed in an up-to-date manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	Very briefly. It is true that more than a week ago a warning shot was fired when a check was carried out, when the work was carried out. This has also been done in accordance with the directives, including as regards subsequent communication. That incident was reported to the district attorney's office, and he'll look into it further. That kind of thing happens. The screening and compliance with the requirements in terms of integrity remains important to me. We know that we are now recruiting 900 extra customs officers for the Brexit. I have indicated to the Chamber that one of the reasons we are not ready in time is that we do not want to make any concessions to the screening and to the integrity test we need. I can tell the Chamber that I will take this incident back to myself. We can see if we can take some further steps in the screening at the beginning and at the end, because there really should be no doubt about that. We need to take a look at that. I shall come back to this in a letter in a few months' time, so that we have no misunderstandings about the adoption of the Brexit customs officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Rounding up. That would be very nice, because I think it is good to report incidents, but also how the service and the Secretary of State deal with the tightening up of screening and the taking of measures. Then it is clear not only to us as a Chamber, but perhaps also to people who have evil intentions, that they cannot get away with the idea that it is not all that bad, because it is really too important. Once again, it is about our safety and about our entrepreneurs, who want to trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	I had another question because I don't quite understand it. The Secretary of State points out that screening is a little more than a vog. At the Customs for Schiphol, you must have a statement of no objection. I could not find out whether this also applies to the Customs of Rotterdam. I would like to know why there is a difference, because I do not see any reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	We have a number of rules for this, with which we actually follow state policy. We have, frankly, three categories. Ordinary employees must all have an explanation of behaviour and a discussion where an integrity example is also made. That's the lowest level. Then you have a heavier level for extraordinary investigators. There's a screening. For example, there is also a look back and there may be some kind of environmental analysis in it. They must be rescreened once every five years. The heaviest functions are the trust functions, for example of people with very special access to a particular gate or to knowledge that we really want to keep very limited. For them, there is an AIVD study, say the toughest screening study possible. This also applies to the fact that all three have a logic. This is not only with us but also with other implementation services. Unfortunately, there are rotten apples or pears that can continue to exist, but you will notice that the more we screen, the less that chance is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	No, we can't do that anymore. Thank you.
