ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, especially the Minister of Justice and Security. The next item is the debate on the drugs problem in the Netherlands, and I will give Mr Krol the floor on behalf of 50PLUS as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Our country has an alternative economy and it is estimated that it accounts for around EUR 20 billion a year. The people who hold this empire, they think they're untouchable. Fines and prison sentences have been calculated. They radiate it: the government doesn't care, we're the boss here. They drive around in expensive lease boxes, arms out the window, impressive. According to the authors of these two interesting reports, Pieter Tops and Jan Tromp, both here in your lodge, Madam President, they shoot at traffic signs to make it clear: not the police, not the tax authorities, not the other authorities, but who make the difference here. A year and a half ago, I saw barrels of drug waste lying behind my house in the woods. When I walk my puppy in the evening, I see cars coming and going in a parking lot just around the corner. Banknotes go from one window to another and the purchased merchandise from one to another. Drug crime is pretty close, and it's not just that. We are now talking about "misdemeanors." It'll just be your kid. And look at the number of deaths among drug users. This is now three times higher compared to 2014. There is an alternative economy that affects and disrupts the regular economy. Everything shows that the upper world and the underworld are becoming more and more entwined. The Netherlands will become a narcostat. This debate is crucial. I appreciate the presence of the Minister of Justice and Security, but the fact that he is here alone is characteristic of the approach so far. The enemy is laughing at it! It stands strong as long as we do not join forces. This debate should also have been attended by finance ministers, Home Affairs Ministers, Defence Ministers and VWS. We're at a turning point: are the drug dealers winning or are we winning? The latter will not even be appreciated by all citizens, and I mean not only the users, but also the one neighbour, who can't buy food at the end of the month without that €50 from her dealer boy next door. Most guys who make capital with this trade are people of flesh and blood. They do it because of the money, but also because of the status. That's why they also sponsor the sports club, go out with disabled children and make the activities of the community center possible. If we take action, then as a government we must also compensate the people who are now taking money from these criminal funds. Madam President. I have 12 proposals. I have numbered them and I want a serious response to each of these proposals, so that I can table motions in my second term for any proposal on which I do not receive sufficient commitments. Here we go. 1. Set up a structural drug fund in which stolen money from criminals is earmarked. This fund finances the fight against drugs. Priority is given to taking drug money. It's self-deserving. 2. Set a generous reward for people reporting drug gangs, as far as I'm concerned, a million euros if a large drug gang is rolled up on the basis of a crucial tip. Guarantee, if necessary, a new identity and a new existence abroad in the event of threats. 3. Officials, directors and representatives of the people who are bribed, we take hard action. Following a conviction for bribery, there is a legal ban on running for election and exclusion from official and public functions. 4. Municipalities are crying out for more enforcement capacity. Then give them that, structuralally. 5. Intensify border surveillance with Germany and Belgium. Use empty customs offices as a base to grab more drug criminals in the collar. 6. Fortunately, the deployment of our army happens more often. It's working! Once again, we are calling for a systematic commitment. We're sending up to 550 soldiers to the Bahamas for emergency relief. Fine, but let such a similar number of soldiers deal with the war on drugs here. 7. There are now 150 police detective dogs, including drug and money dogs. These detectives are real top guys. Every euro invested earns itself back. Work in five years towards an extension to 1,000 drug and money dogs through breeding and training programmes and the 500 additional dog counselors at customs and police which are then needed. 8. Ensure a proper exchange of information between cooperating public authorities. Take urgent action to protect the privacy of drug suspects. What legal changes are needed for this? 9. Set up a rental register for private rental of business premises. 10. Rough apples among customs officers in the port of Rotterdam are subject to severe penalties. But it's even better to equip those customs officers with a bodycam. This will prevent containers from being placed green without control or the transfer of loads to unsuspected containers. 11. Fight drug dropouts off the Dutch coast. Now they're shave and sleaze. There used to be EU money for that, but not anymore. How do we solve that? 12. Pull the Dutch passport of convicted drug criminals with a double passport. Madam President. I'm gonna sit back in my place and I'm gonna tarnish what commitments I'm getting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u3	That's one way, indeed. Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I am replacing my colleague, Mr Van Toorenburg, who cannot be here because of personal circumstances. I do not have Mr Krol's 11, 12 or 13 points. I've got three. That might be a little more straightforward and the intention is the same. For the CDA, this debate is very important. It was initially requested because of the problems in the South of the Netherlands. The report produced in Amsterdam also added to the broad drug problem. It's a very important subject. Let me begin with my first point. In the CDA's view, the fight against crime begins primarily with citizens themselves. Above all, it is the citizens themselves who have the opportunity and who must take responsibility for acting as responsible citizens. Let us point out that on the drug file there is a lot to gain. I've been a state's attorney myself for years. I did sit at the police station on Sunday morning and there people were arraigned to me who, for example, had been caught at a carnival or something else with drugs. Then who did I get for me? A teacher from primary school, first grade and second grade, who was back in class on Monday morning. I had children at that age myself and I wondered if I would like the teacher who teaches my children to be at the police station on Sunday. I found a plumber who simply had to do installation work again on Monday, which is sometimes quite accurate work. I even found an O.R. once. Do I have to think: would I like that if I was lying on that table and there was an employee who might still have traces of narcotics in him? Mr. Chairman. It is incredibly important that we not only call on society to take responsibility but also give us the means to take that responsibility. That is why we at the CDA would very much like employers to have the opportunity to carry out alcohol and drug tests. That possibility has evaporated with the introduction of the GDPR. A legal basis is needed to make this possible. We can all go and say, "Oh, guys, let's talk about people's medical records." But it is now clear that we will all have to strike an adequate balance between maintaining order in this country and privacy interests. I find it incredibly important that employers should be able to make agreements on this with their employees in a fairly normal way. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. A second point is coordination in the fight against drugs. I have noticed in the conversations I had on this matter last summer in police and judicial circles, that this fight is actually rather crumbling. There is a club led by former mayor Noordanus, who does good national things in the field of undermining. But there is no coordinated approach, there is no "criminal policy." What is our political line, our policy line to tackle this in a broad sense? Let me give you an example. I have an interview here with John Jespers. He was a drug specialist with the Dutch police for 30 years. I was at his farewell the other day. He says: One of the problems we are experiencing at the moment is that people in Colombia have stopped fighting those plantations where those plants grow. If we see that in the Netherlands, what is the interference of the Foreign Office? There has been a task force led by Mayor Aboutaleb who was about tackling high impact crimes. Would it not be time for a task force to intervene in this integrated fight against drugs? Such a task force should link the police and the judiciary over the units and arrondissements, but also link all forms of policy to them, and activate everyone needed to do so. He said a while back: organized crime can only be fought by an organized government. I ask the Minister of Justice and Security how he is currently seeing this organized government, which opposes drug crime. I see Mr Voordewind rushing to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u5	I've also read the CDA proposal, of course, was it in De Telegraaf? It is a good proposal to see if you can coordinate coordination much better. Does the CDA Group consider that there could also be a role for the NCTV in that possible task force? The police union came up with that, too. Is there a role for the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security? Since he could already have such a role in terms of security, it could also cover drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u6	I think that the primary task of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security is that aspect of terrorism and the security of the Dutch state. There are people who say that we are slowly having a narcostat in the Netherlands. I will not repeat that to those people, because I want to say that there is no Minister of Justice and Security in the Chamber with sunglasses on it. He has no aura of drug crime around him. No, we have a normal society in which we must resist. And I am convinced that we can simply reduce this evil to reasonable proportions if we do that with each other. If involvement of the NCTV, the AIVD, the army or anyone else in the execution or intelligence can play a role in this, then we certainly must not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. I see an opening there. I do not entirely agree with the introduction. In the reports, for example in the report "The Back of Amsterdam," there are some very disturbing noises. 40% of the entertainment audience uses soft drugs, 4 kilos of coke is used in Amsterdam per day. But if we can work together and get the NCTV involved, I think we're going the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u8	There is still a small response to this point. We have to look forward to getting into some kind of doom scenario, assuming that it happens to us all and that we can't do anything about it anymore. Oh, come on! Most of us in the Netherlands are very motivated to just brush away this evil. So let's not let images bully us. In Dutch history we have faced bigger challenges. If we pick this up together, we can fight this evil. That's my belief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u9	This summer recess was 48 years since Nixon started the war on drugs. In the eighties we also joined in the Netherlands, but not yet completely. Before that, Minister Van Agt of CDA-huis conducted a very sensible policy, aimed at regulation and tolerance. I actually have a very simple question to my colleague from the CDA: what has almost 50 years of war on drugs got us? There's more organized crime and cocaine has never been as cheap as it is at the moment. So why are all the CDA's proposals aimed at doing more of the same, namely further criminalising? There's gonna be a drug test at the office every Monday morning. How are we going to solve the problems in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u10	I do not think I am able to evaluate 50 years of drug policy in the context of an interruption. I strongly dispute that I am making a plea here to inject even more confused drugs into it. I think that is the argument that society is once again being discussed. I put forward a concrete proposal for this, which does not lead to criminalisation at all, but does lead to natural dams. It is very clear to me that you stand for a political direction in which drug use comes with freedom, happiness and hip-hop hooray. I stand for a movement in which I want to give parents a handle on how to explain to their children that drug use is not normal and that we need to regulate it in a proper way. I think it is very important, on the contrary, that we should give the employers the opportunity to take up their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u11	In my own speech, I will go into more detail about how GroenLinks thinks about drug policy. But I'm gonna stick to this point. Mr Van Dam says: I am not arguing at all for further criminalisation or for further war on drugs. But then I wonder how to run a drug test at work. As far as I'm concerned, that is criminalising. Are we going to check every school bag on the school square, every briefcase on the Zuidas and every coat on a festival grounds? In my view, this is a truly unstoppable road and it certainly does not make the country safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u12	It is nice that Mr.Van den Berge calls the Zuidas, which is also referred to by many people as the "snuff." I have spoken to entrepreneurs on the Zuidas who say: give us the opportunity to test our staff. By the way, I think a lot of co-workers think that's very good. People are sick of it. They don't want to work in that context anymore. They don't want to work with colleagues who do. If you give society the means to take on its own responsibility, then I think that is fundamentally different from what you say: we are going to increase the penalties and we are going to extend the criminal justice instruments. I really think that's a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u13	I can see you're having second thoughts. Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u14	I don't doubt it, Mr. Chairman. I'm thinking; I do that a lot when I listen. In my own speech, I will go back to it in more detail. I conclude that Mr. Van Dam proposes to do more of the same: more criminalization and more enforcement. I'm not against that in itself, but I am if that's all we do. I will come back to that myself later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u15	Fine. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u16	I was just thinking about coordinating around undermining. That sounds very sympathetic. I have also asked mayors and experts what they actually think of this proposal. But I still have some hesitations. My first hesitation is: is there no more need for regional customization? It is a national problem, but at the same time cooperation is needed in the regions. Coordination is another kind of institution. My second hesitation is: is this our first priority? More powers to share information have been requested for five years. We are now working on model agreements, but we still lack very concrete crowbars to be able to actually share that information. Wouldn't it be more convenient to use it instead of setting up a new institution again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u17	I share with Mrs Kuik that there are many opportunities to change in the area of information sharing. But I didn't bring that into the debate because the Minister will be coming to the Chamber shortly with a bill. I always trip over the name. It is in the vein of sharing information in partnerships.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u18	Something's being whispered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u19	The lip readers among us have been able to read it. I didn't quite hear it, but I think we know from each other what bill we're talking about. I think it would be wise to wait for that bill before I come forward with another proposal. However, I fully agree with Mrs Kuik that this is also one of the priorities in the policy. About the proposal I make for a task force the following. My colleague Heerma said something in the newspaper last week about a club that needs to be there. My proposal is slightly above that in terms of strategy. I am impressed by what Aboutaleb has done with the approach to high impact. That wasn't a separate unit, that was coordination. That was to ensure that entrepreneurs did things, that prevention things were done, that things were done even in the care sphere in relation to a certain type of perpetrator. If we look at how spectacular those robberies have fallen, that's a restless possession, because if we don't keep up, it can go up again, I think: there's a profit to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u20	I recognize that as well, but my concern lies in the following. We think we should put a national coordinator above everything that's already in place. I really wonder if such an institution will help with the concrete suggestions and measures that already exist. The same holds true for the weather to create a unit. In all parts of the country units are needed. If you get that out of scarcity, you don't necessarily have any more. Again, I thought it was a nice idea. I've had it tested by mayors and police officers. They all say: I don't know if this is the most sensible way to go; just look for it more in possibilities, look for it in capacity instead of scaling it up in this way. So I don't think I support it for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u21	Then that's clear, too. It wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u22	I will try to ask a question that follows that. Mr Van Dam is actually making a different proposal from his group chairman in the newspaper last week. I do have a question about that separate police team. From the interview with Mr Heerma in De Telegraaf I understood that he does not advocate extra money. Then a separate police team must be found within the existing budget. Does Mr Van Dam think that this can be done and, if so, at the expense of what current police duties should it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u23	I like that there is so much interest in the CDA's plans in this area. That's very good. I think I am referring in part to next Wednesday's General Political Reviews, where this will undoubtedly be an important point of ours. However, I would like to point out that the proposal I am referring to is quite different from the one put forward by Mr Heerma, which is indeed a proposal. In particular, in line with my earlier proposal, I believe that society needs to be much more involved in tackling drugs. That doesn't have to cost any extra capacity of police officers or anything. To give you an example. In my opinion, there are not many companies that provide boat transport from South America to Europe; let me say some twenty. What kind of agreements are being made with these companies? I am thinking, for example, of 100% control in South America. Can we create ports in South America where ships can safely be loaded? That is what I need Foreign Affairs for, and I may need the European Union to do so. That's a drug policy I'm advocating. We should not leave the approach alone with the police and the justice system. We must activate citizens and businesses in society and also offer opportunities. All these other policy areas besides the judicial column must be activated in order to fully oppose this. Then I'm sure we'll make a real success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u24	Finally, Mr Van Nispen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u25	I do not agree so much with Mr Van Dam on this point and I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about it and why certain logical things have not already been done, but I still have a little bit to do with the police capacity. That's not what we're gonna talk about today, because it's gonna come back next week. I find that complicated. I believe that Mr Van Dam could answer the following question. If a separate police team is to be formed within the current scarcity of national police forces, at the expense of what tasks could that be? Well, that's the question I'm gonna stay with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u26	I have a third point, I say, to keep up the momentum. My third point, and that is a very well-known point that Mr Van Nispen will not sound strange in his ears, is about tackling undermining, of which drug crime is an important part. This is about the one-off fund of EUR 100 million. I think, and I think many of us think this is what I do, that you need to go to structural funding. Then I am also very much in favour of not doing it again in the projects and in the things, but simply putting them into capacity to deal with the problem. I would like to ask the Minister how he is now faced with this structural funding, and perhaps how far he is with it, and what he needs from us for it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, within my speaking time, I would also like to make the following pleas and ask the Minister for a reply: can we not organize that the proceeds of stolen criminal assets are being used to feed such a fund? Can we do it that way? Of course, that's one of those things that you can say doesn't fit into our rule of law, but at the same time I think it's a huge motivator for people when we do it in a good, distant way, with the aim of getting it done at some point. There is currently 1.9 billion in criminal records. How can we get money out of that to make sure that the things Mr van Nispen says are done? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. Locking up, Mr. Van Nispen. Questions about motions always come in the second term, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u28	I'd like to interrupt, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr Van Dam asks the Minister what he needs from us. What, for example, does Mr Van Dam think of a joint motion in which we simply ask for that occasional fund to be structured? I believe that this motion has already been tabled by several colleagues. If we can agree to that together today, we can simply instruct the government to do so. It's just a very simple proposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yeah, and you can do that in second term. But you can also respond to it, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u32	Very briefly. If I have motions to that effect if I am part of a government party I must have done my homework. In that respect, you know exactly how I am in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again a debate on drugs and undermining and related crime. Too bad it's necessary, but it's a good thing it's happening. Mr. Chairman. The fight against this multifaceted monster requires a long, repressive, coordinated and consistent approach, which will also cost a great deal of money. But this approach is necessary, because these issues are a threat to society and to the rule of law, for two reasons. Firstly, criminals accumulate large illicit assets with the production of and trafficking in drugs, which through money laundering enter and threaten the legal economy. Secondly, there is excessive violence in public space because criminals defend their territory. Mr. Chairman. Only in this debate can I make a distinction between the drugs problem in the Netherlands in general and the drugs problem in Amsterdam in particular. For many years Amsterdam has deliberately done nothing against drug nuisance, because, I quote, enforcement was seen as something on the right. Everything must be possible: festival here, festival there, without having an eye for the shadow side. Then Amsterdam asks for more agents when the criminals liquidate each other in broad daylight. Contradictive and hypocritical, too. Mayor Halsema is the first person to put things in order, but has not shown the courage to do so, even after four parties in her city council have called for her to take action. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is also doing far too little in the country. In fact, he comes up with conflicting policies. A single 100 million has been entered into an undermining fund to tackle organised and undermining crime. But there will also be an experiment with the tolerated growing of pot for recreational use, the so-called weed experiment. In all the debates on drugs, undermining and organised crime, my group has always said the same thing. That's what I'm gonna do now. Because our proposed measures are the only ones that help. Firstly, it is there again; I said it at the time of the budget debate and I tabled a motion on it last year: the one-off budget of 100 million is totally inadequate. A structural undermining fund, a structural budget, is required to be co-financed from the illegally acquired assets taken from the criminals. That is why I shall retable this motion for the structural undermining fund, which I tabled last year in the budgetary procedure. I can guess the Minister's answers, because last week I asked the exact same question in Question Time. And then it was another njet. I am therefore very pleased that Mr Van Nispen asked a question about this and that Mr Krol is also very concerned about it. I hope that the CDA will do the same, because Mr Van Toorenburg has done the same in the past. The only thing this drove into the wheels at the time was the coalition. So I'm very curious, but I'm definitely filing that motion again. Secondly, in order to achieve rapid and efficient withdrawal, much more and much earlier cooperation is needed by all public and private organisations involved: the Tax Administration, the FIOD, the police, etc. We all know the whole line. The so-called privacy block for the exchange of information between these authorities should be lifted as soon as possible. Where is this legislation? And three: simplify the so-called Bibob procedure in the sense that it should be much easier and faster to reject an application for a licence if there is a dark brown suspicion that the licence is intended solely to enable and protect illegal practices. The fourth point, Mr President, is that the policy of tolerance on soft drugs must stop. The Minister simply has to comply with the Opium Act and not start a weed experiment. It's crazy to put the ball with the users. Of course they are also a cop, because they are the users of a joint, a line of coke and an xtc-pile. They certainly maintain the problem, but they are not the first designated party and not at all if the Minister himself makes an exception to the law and thereby normalizes the use of soft drugs. Because it is certain that the THC content in the current joint is so strong that it is highly addictive and actually almost wipes out the threshold for the use of hard drugs. So the Minister has a lot of explaining to do. Let me give you a side-jump: there is no such thing as a war on drugs here. Since 1976, soft drugs have been tolerated here. That's why we're here today. That is just what Mr Tops and Mr Jan Tromp say in today's Volkskrant: there is no war on drugs here at all. In summary... No, just one more point. Where the Minister keeps saying to my questions that 'this minister is not going to legalize drugs', we must bear in mind that this minister is almost always talking about ecstasy pills. Those are hard drugs. That's a big difference. I've done it a few times. He never talks about soft drugs when he says, "This minister doesn't legalize drugs." I would just like to make that point. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. As I said, a coordinated intensive and, above all, sustained repressive approach is needed. Combine those with more money for police, higher penalties, sufficient capacity for the removal of criminal money and the necessary legislation. In addition: to stop the weed experiment and instead a government discouragement policy, so that it is clear to everyone, especially for young people, that drugs can have serious consequences for life ahead. All I have to do is refer to the Foolish Mothers' website. They call themselves that. Because that's where you see all the misery. There must therefore also be an eye for prevention. That will not be easy and it will take a long time, but better late than never. There's no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you. Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Helder just quoted from the interview with Mr Tops and Mr Tromp, but she did so rather selectively, because in the same article the gentlemen also said a few things about controlled legalisation, at the same time as tackling organised crime. Then how does Mrs. Helder look at that? Because apparently she thinks this is good, reliable sources. So I wonder how she looks at the other opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u37	As far as the opinion on legalisation is concerned, I have just said that we are fundamentally opposed to legalization. The article also states: "For us it is certain that the godly large amounts of money in the drug economy are the greatest threat to a decent society." Then the key question is whether legalisation will indeed lead to a substantial reduction in drug crime. I would also like to mention that advice. I can read the whole article, but I did not have the time to do so. So the PVV says no to legalization. You were talking about "a war on drugs." So there is no question of that. As far as my group is concerned, that is not necessary. We're not in America here, but legalization, no. Prevention must be done, because it has not been tolerated since 1976, but my group is very much in favour of repression.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u38	Then I can only conclude that the PVV shop very selectively in a report and in an article and that she only uses the pieces that suit her. I don't think that's wise, because you have to tell the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm far from blaming you for that. I've got the article for me. I can also quote from it. It's five points, and I can do that for a while. Accountability and public health first. Well, I just said that. You don't have to accept it. That is why drugs are indeed banned, because public health is paramount. So that tolerance policy was simply to overlook the application of Article 5. My group is against this. The next point is the underworld. Well, that's what we've responded to. That is why we are all holding a debate here. Legalization is the next point. My group is against it. Involvement is a point. I just said that we're all working together on this. My group has a preference for repression, but I have said that prevention is also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. Drug crime is a billion-dollar industry. It's not about hugging criminals, it's about tough drug lords. It affects all of us, because you find a drug lab in a residential area with all the risks involved, there are misdemeanors, you see drug dealers in the street or even children who no longer select their school on the quality of education, but on whether it's a drug school or not. This gives a clear picture of what can go wrong, especially because the upper and underworld are becoming more and more intertwined. It is therefore not a problem of a festival party, but a very stubborn voracious monster that hits us all. It also calls for a multifaceted approach to combat drug crime, because the upper and lower worlds are increasingly touching each other. Car rental companies, real estate entrepreneurs, real estate agents, but also well-known companies that you can ask how they actually get their assets. How can they develop so quickly in certain cities? Also the brutal brutality to buy, as a middle finger to the mayor, a property opposite the town hall, just to show: government, I don't care what you do at all. In short, we are in a hurry to tackle this multi-headed monster. The first point I would like to raise in this connection was mentioned in my little debate on the interruption with Mr Van Dam, which concerns the sharing of information. For five years, all mayors, starting in Brabant and Limburg, have been saying this is not an Amsterdam problem: give us the powers to better share information. We know that people who have a benefit in the meantime are trading in real estate, we know that certain properties have been bought up that can never be behind only legal activities, we see it and yet we cannot yet act. What you don't know is a second issue, but if you can't fight what you already know simply because you don't have the powers, not within the municipality, not between municipalities, not with third parties, then we have a problem with each other. I know that there is now a Model Covenant from the Strategic Council when it comes to the Task Force Undermining, but it is also being said: it is really too little. So get it done. A second point is control. Do we accept that the market is the biggest driver of how we regulate our economy? Look at the checks we carry out in the port of Rotterdam. When we get on a plane in Curaçao, all people are checked to see if they've got balls in their bodies. Well, I don't know how many pounds you can put in your belly, I might be a little more than anyone else, but it's never gonna be a lot. But we know that there are no 100% controls at the port of Rotterdam. If you have 0.1% control there, you're lucky. Still separate from the ports around us. It is a public secret that the port of Antwerp is as leaky as a basket. Scans do a lot, but not enough. Screening leaves a lot to be desired. Due to the arrival of the Brexit or the possible Brexit, all additional people are hired. Have these people been checked yet? It's a big issue. Another point of attention in the same audit is opium legislation. Why is the Netherlands so interesting anyway? This is partly because we can act so well, but also because our opium legislation is simply not conclusive. Other colleagues have pointed this out on a number of occasions. A lot of designer drugs are so easy to implement: for thousands of euros and a street value of millions. That too has been mentioned for a long time. We know we have to do that, but it's just words. Deeds are left behind. Mr. Chairman. As I said, this is not an Amsterdam problem and this is not just an urban problem; this is also a rural problem. Think of all the empty farm sheds, breeding grounds for criminal activities. We know, but we don't act on it. There's hardly any money available to buy up that kind of barns and buildings. The nitrogen debate we are now having with each other will only add to the problem. Does the Minister have any contact with Mr Schouten about how we are going to tackle this major problem? I ask mayors what solutions they see. They see the problem, but solutions are not yet available. In short, a multi-headed monster that we need to tackle with a lot of stubbornness. Mr. Chairman. So I'm in favour of harsh punishment. I'm in favour of tough measures. I think information sharing is extremely important and I think that money should be allocated to it. I hear in the corridors that the cabinet still intends to release several tens of millions for the FIOD and the Tax Administration. I would welcome that. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether this story is correct. Are we perhaps going one step further, as Mr Van Dam and all the other parties advocate, by making the undermining fund structural? Can we expect a takeaway fund, too? Then we can spend the money we take away on tackling the undermining. That's gonna pay more. Finally, Mr President. One important point I would like to mention is that I expect the cabinet to also see how we deal with the neighbourhoods. We know that Holendrecht is particularly vulnerable in Amsterdam, Rotterdam-Zuid and a number of other neighbourhoods. I mention low-educated, low-work perspective and sometimes low-educated. These neighbourhoods are all breeding grounds that criminal organisations sometimes thankfully use. I would therefore like to call for a multiannual perspective and invest a new neighbourhood approach à la Rotterdam-Zuid........................................................................................................................................................................ I still miss that in the cabinet's approach, and I would like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u42	I have a question for Mrs. Chicken. She's all saying things that I'm actually very sympathetic to. These are justified comments. I have strongly advocated that we should activate society, so just the people in the country themselves, employers. Mrs. Kuik is a member of a large popular party. At least her party may have a little less support now, but I really think it is one of the great popular parties in our country. What does it think of activating the responsibility and role of citizens? The measures she mentions can rightly be requested from the government, including the latter, the neighbourhood approach. This brings her a little closer to citizens. But how do we follow her perception of changing attitudes in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u43	You know, I'm leaning very much towards the approach Tops and Tromp are taking: don't go further in criminalising the user, because that doesn't make much sense at the end of the day. I'm very much in favour of an open discussion. I think it is very good to have the conversation with each other, just as we do with alcohol, smoking and driving safely in traffic. But I myself do not believe in further criminalising the user. That's my first answer. My second answer is: it was not so bad now, but I see that the Minister too is very much going to bashen the user, while the problems are much bigger. We've been waiting five years for legislation. We all crave extra money for capacity, but every time I ask a question about that, he starts criminalizing the user. That annoys me. I want to have the open conversation with you, but it should not be a covert, a pubic or an excuse not to address the bigger issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u44	Through this interruption, I'm trying to have the open conversation with you. I can hear you saying what you don't want to say, but may I invite you to say what you do want in that regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u45	There are a lot of mayors who are right to say: listen, as an end user or user, you also have a role in this industry. Only, I don't believe that measures to further criminalize that user are going to help. There is a demand and, moreover, 80% export. So it just takes a lot more. So let's get together first in the area of information sharing, legislation and your justified call for more capacity. I'm really expecting something next week on Prince's Day and I'm hopeful. Then we can have the open conversation with each other about what helps in the awareness and reduction of unwanted drug use in the Netherlands. I'm also a lot more of you looking at the health risks. So I've just got another flight path.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u46	That is what I hear, and I am very sorry about that, because I think that we can win a great deal in activating this citizen, but perhaps we should have an open discussion on this more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u47	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u48	Yes, open conversation, but I've seen the Minister do it a number of times now that he's using it as an excuse not to deal with the big problems. Then I'll become poisonous, because it doesn't do justice to this serious subject. And it doesn't help either, because it's not like we haven't been betting on that user in the last few years. So that's really a misconception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u49	I see the Minister's commitment to the criminal networks behind them through the undermining fund. So I don't see the point. Mrs Kuik's good point is that she says that we need to do much more to give young people a perspective, including Holendrecht. I myself come from Amsterdam-Zuidoost and grew up there in the 1970s. The situation is different now. But then the next thing surprises me. We tabled a motion here yesterday, which called for prevention, to combat drug use. The Labour Party voted against it. Can you explain again why, in the light of that whole glowing argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u50	That's a question in a few parts. That 100 million occasionally is very good, but it's not structural. We are all in favour of this, including Mr Van Dam of the coalition. So I really expect it to say on Princess' Day: we're going to make this fund structural. That's one. Two. I did not support that motion because it continues to criminalize the user. I don't believe in that. I believe, on the contrary, that you need to look very closely at health risks and awareness. I think that'll help. I think it is still too much of an excuse not to address the even bigger issues, such as information sharing, legislation, controls and the fact that the market is always gaining from common sense. After all, these super and underworlds are not so easily interwoven for nothing. That is the big issues we need to tackle instead of hiding behind criminalising the user.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u51	I will say that this motion was tabled by Mrs Kuik and Mr Dik-Faber. This motion refers precisely to the health risks of drug use and to the importance of prevention. That's what Mrs. Kuik mentioned here. So it's and-and, I'd like to say to Mrs. Chicken. We need to invest in prevention, and we need to tackle those criminal networks behind it. So why not en-and?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u52	But who filed that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u53	I know the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u54	It's about the swim/dick-faber motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u55	Not Chicken, but Chicken!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u56	Oh, Chick! I thought Chicken, so I thought it was a weird discussion! But then it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u57	No, Mr. Chairman. I know the motion. We have also talked about it, but precisely because the CDA and the Christian Union have a very different intention with this motion than I think is sensible, I did not support it. That's one. Let's talk about my plea for a neighborhood-oriented approach. In Rotterdam-Zuid I think that we are doing really good things with a former alderman as director. We only focus on the things that turn out to work: more hours of education, keeping children off the streets, offering perspective and working with parents. You'll see it works. That's the kind of approach I want in several of these neighborhoods. Because if we don't keep putting it in there, it's too easy: you start as a pizza courier, then you're recruited by a criminal network, and before you know it, you're in it. Perhaps we should also consider exit programmes, not only for prostitutes, but also for small criminals. Because I don't think they want this. Mothers sit with their hands in their hair because they don't know how to handle this. That's what I'm advocating. And we're not gonna realize all this by just focusing on: God, who is or isn't using a pill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u58	All the examples mentioned here by Mrs Kuik have to do with preventing young people from slipping further into drug crime. Anyway, maybe we're more in agreement than Mrs. Kuik now wants to admit. My final question concerns a point that I will also bring in myself, namely the testing of pills. Mrs Kuik may have implied it, but if we want to counter that culture of normalization, what does Mrs Kuik think of the fact that this government still has ecstasy pills tested by semi-governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u59	That's what I'm very sorry for. Look, the usage is there and stays there. I would like you to look at this kind of thing just on a decent scale and thinking, just like Tops and Tromp suggest. You need to look at legalization and look at health. You know what? If they're gonna do it, I'd rather it's safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u60	They're hard drugs!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yeah, so what? It is not that one is more or less dangerous than the other. The use is there. You can close your eyes to it, but this is just a given. But again, my general plea, regardless of whether or not to test drugs, is to stop the excuse of criminalizing the user.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u62	That's been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u63	Focus on the big problems that exist, because that's really what experts like Tops and Tromp, police and mayors are asking of us. And I've really called them a lot before and this weekend again. Listen to them!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SPG.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u65	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. A few weeks ago, when I saw the commotion about the report The back of Amsterdam and the shocked reactions, my first reaction was: but what's the news? I thought we knew this a long time ago. Does this fuss, this commotion, do justice to the tough struggle that mayors have been fighting in the region for many years against undermining their congregation by drug crime? I must say that I also found the cramping attempts to disqualify the quality of the research almost entertaining. It was some kind of shoot the messenger effect. Yes, I'm sorry, Chairman, but that's the expression, in English. That disqualifying was not possible, and it is right, because the message is very hard and rightly so. But my second thought was: this is hopeful. Finally, we can get support for combating drug crime. The Netherlands has built up a reputation internationally for a pills paradise, a weed halla, a drug dream. Now it may finally break into our country's realization that this is a nasty fairytale image. An article in the Volkskrant had the headline: does thinking about drug use in the Netherlands change? I sincerely hope so. The Minister also rightly stressed the importance of changing attitudes: that we no longer consider drug use normal. We need to understand that by using drugs, you're contributing to maintaining a criminal business model. We must realise that drug gangs are causing many victims among people in a vulnerable position. We must realise that drug addiction destroys young people's lives. Mr. Chairman. This requires that we not only strive for a smoke-free generation, as the cabinet does with enthusiasm, but also for a drug-free generation. My question to the Minister is therefore specific: is the Minister prepared to stand up for this and make this a policy commitment? At the same time, it remains necessary to tackle drug-related crime vigorously. I support the input of colleagues who have made a number of proposals here. We're picking up three bottlenecks. First of all, the undermining fund. The cabinet has occasionally released 100 million for the undermining fund and, structurally, invests an amount of up to 10 million. We hear and see that we really need to get on top of this. It's a good start, but it takes more. Question to the Minister: Is he willing to investigate whether municipalities can be supported for an additional period of time in tackling undermining, i.e. a broader, better, structural approach? The second point is information exchange. Laws and regulations prevent the exchange of information between relevant authorities and municipalities. This hampers a broad approach to drug-related crime, in which the police, the Public Prosecutor, the Empire, the Tax Administration, the FIOD, regional information and expertise centres and other bodies join forces. Concrete question: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Van der Staaij and others motion? April of this year? It has been submitted in a different context, but it asked the government to investigate on which parts of the security domain there is a risk that recourse to privacy would hinder the exchange of information necessary for an adequate identification of the risks or an adequate response to undesirable developments. The third point we are calling attention to is cooperation. Cooperation between municipalities, state authorities and financial investigation bodies is crucial. Just before the summer recess, the Minister announced investments for the detection of money laundering, the fight against fraud and undermining. It involved, among other things, the FIOD, the Tax Service and the State Attorney's Office an amount of up to, structuralally, 29 million as of 2021. The exact setting-up and distribution of resources shall be determined by coordination. Question to the Minister: Can he explain the state of play and the distribution of the money? What are the priorities? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mr. Chairman. The effects of hard drugs are enormous. Then I'm not just talking about using it. There's a whole world hiding behind production, of exports, of weapons, of serious crime. It hasn't been happening alone in the underworld for a long time. I come from Amsterdam and I know the people who got on their bikes early in the morning to go to work and bring their child to the shelter and who saw a severed head down the street on the doorstep of a shishalounge. It gives me goosebumps again when I think about it. It's gonna happen to you that you see that. With me in Amsterdam-Oost. A family that's just hanging out at home and suddenly having to deal with a reckoning. Bullets fly around and they see bullet holes a few centimeters above the cot seconds later. These are shocking examples. Of course, we have also had to deal with the brutal attack on our freedom of the press by the attacks on Panorama and De Telegraaf. We know that small businesses feel intimidated by mafia practices. One of the most poignant examples of how the underworld interferes with our upper world has also been mentioned by colleagues. Those are the so-called misdemeanor killings. I think we all remember that at the end of last year 17-year-old innocent Mohammed was shot in front of his friends and friends. These are examples from Amsterdam. Those aren't from today, they're not from this week. We've known this problem a long time. However, as an Amsterdamer, I am very concerned about the current priorities of the current college, of the current administration. I would also very much like to know from the Minister whether discussions have been held with the Amsterdam administration. Can the Minister really assure us that they are on top of this now, that the priorities are in order? That enforcement doesn't go to kids who are swimming because it's 30°, it's going to deal with thugs? It is rather naive to think that this problem would only be from Amsterdam. Colleagues have said the same thing. We see it all over the country, of course. Our country is known as the largest producer of synthetic drugs. Last year, an investigation was published by the Police Academy, in which a small country can be big. The Netherlands was also described as a world champion of ecstasy production. This dubious title can also be taken back to the south of the Netherlands, to Limburg, to Brabant, where there are some leaders. There too, the underworld continues in our own world. We know that schoolchildren are in the grip of these mob headlines. Police region Zeeland-West Brabant indicates that they are dealing with children of 13, 14 years old who are recruited to deal and to act as a drug mule. It is clear that, as far as the VVD is concerned, I have also heard all my colleagues in this way, and that we are still sitting there, dealing with organised crime and undermining. Nor should we pretend to stop at the borders of our country. This is a big problem we're all looking at. That is why I am very pleased that the cabinet has cleared 100 million for the approach and has already submitted a number of laws and that laws are still coming. What I would like to know from the Minister is how we are going to measure its impact. I hear all kinds of colleagues saying that there should be more money. I would like to know: how are we going to measure the effect of what we are doing now? What are we gonna see later that what we're doing now was the right thing to do? What can we pay the Minister for later? I would very much like a specific answer to that, so that we can follow that up with each other. Next, a truly effective approach to organised crime stands or falls with the way you can share information. This is incredibly important. I heard police chief Paauw from Amsterdam last week asking for this too. He says: give us the opportunity to share information, not only with public authorities, also with private organisations. Quite frankly, I understand that there are all laws and rules, including European rules, but I do not want to wait for them at all. I ask the Minister: start a pilot, see if this can be done, in Limburg, in Brabant, in Amsterdam. This is my first debate on security in the Chamber, but I myself have a lot of experience on this subject, particularly in Amsterdam. At the time, I was able to work with Mayor Van der Laan a lot when it came to the approach of the Top 600, which I also heard colleagues say, "You were really going to share information and look up the boundaries of the law." I want to do that here, too. I would like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u68	We have been listening for a few minutes to the input of the colleague of the VVD and I think: when will the idea come from the VVD itself? The CDA, also a coalition party, comes up with a plan itself, but the colleague of the VVD lists what we all hate and what we all know, and says: I want to know from the minister where we are going to take care of the minister. I would also like to know what the VVD itself is doing, rather than just tweeting who deserves what punishment, and "handle hard" and "we also want a power gun." You're on the buttons! Where's your plan? I never find it so strong to say: 'I want to hear this and that of the Minister'. You are also one of the people's representatives, one of the largest coalition parties. Where are the VVD's plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr. Chairman. In my story there were plans from the VVD, because fortunately we are in the cabinet where we take responsibility, where a lot of money has been made available to deal with undermining and in which we work together to prepare laws. That will be in the rest of my speech. A good information position also means that you can follow the big money, towards the leaders that still get away with it. Follow the money, of course we've heard that before. The police clearly need help with that. The VVD has recently put forward proposals to involve outsiders in dealing with cybersecurity, who can help the police as a volunteer. Then the police can temporarily fly those really smart heads in. We want the same thing: follow the money. Where's the big money going? I would like the VVD to see where the good-looking heads are on the Zuidas or anywhere else that can help the police temporarily on a voluntary basis. There are plenty of people who want to, and I think the police can use that as well. In addition, my colleague Ronald van der Linde has recently submitted a list of all the action points with which you can tackle money laundering harshly. I would like to know from the Minister what is happening now with all the specific points that the VVD has put forward, just as Mrs Helder is asking, about what you can do to tackle money laundering. We know that only about 1% of the money involved is now being tracked down. It's all got to be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u70	Then I'll go back to Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u71	I still haven't heard what the VVD wants or thinks of itself. We can refer to plans on money laundering, but that is also a letter from the Minister, eleven pages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u72	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u73	We have them ourselves. You can keep shaking a very nice no, Mrs Yeşilgöz, but you immediately said again 'I want to know from the Minister'. The VVD simply doesn't do anything, but it's not about wanting to do that. That's what the core is about. This requires tackling, not naming what we've known for years. Mrs Yeşilgöz herself said she had years of experience in Amsterdam. Nota bene Amsterdam, where enforcement is seen as something on the right! The VVD always says "we are right"; well, Mr President, I don't hear a beginning here yet. I am anxious to wait for the rest of the speech, because until now I find it very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u74	I just laid down clear plans of the VVD here and said: we have to apply this here, what is the state of it and what can we do with it? There are about 15 action points that the VVD has submitted in recent months. Then I think it's a bit sour for Mrs. Helder to pick up her old story and say: I don't hear anything. Then you could say, "Listen better."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u75	Finally, Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u76	In conclusion, those were not plans of the VVD; those were plans of others. The same applies to the flow of financial experts to the police. That was a police idea! When the VVD says "o, but we had thought of that in the past," it is a bit faint to say "Mrs. Helder lists her own points." So does the VVD, only we invented them ourselves and you borrow them from someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. Before Mrs. Helder sits down, she can turn around. That orange folder contains the proposals of the VVD that have been submitted, with the logo of the VVD on it. Actually, I don't even find that so interesting myself. The point is that we bring in good ideas here, that they are then implemented and that we really do deal with those scumbags. That's the point. But I see that the PVV finds it very important which logo is on it. That folder contains all the proposals from the VVD that we have already put forward and which can be applied perfectly to ensure that we pick up the nearly 30 billion that deal with money laundering and which we now only detect 1% of. That needs to be addressed, we need to bring in the right people, people who really know how to find the big money. I have one more point about SMEs. We also hear from a lot of small entrepreneurs that they think this is a very intense subject, that they see around them how the streets change, that they themselves have a lot of information and that they do not always dare to share it or know where to share it. I think the Minister knows these many examples. The Chamber received a letter from SMEs not so long ago and so did the Minister. They're asking us to help them on these points. I also know that there is an action plan. I would very much like to ask the Minister's specific attention to small entrepreneurs. The bottom line is they're being bullied away by mafia practices. These are people who don't know where to go. They are not necessarily represented in all these large umbrella organisations with which we sit. I would very much like us to pay attention to that. I call on the Minister to engage in that conversation. I would also very much like to bring in my contacts. There are people who are really worried and also clearly see what is changing in the street. They can point out where it's not right. I think we should help those people and embrace that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u78	One of those good ideas, I think, is the undermining fund. I don't know whose idea that was anymore, and it doesn't really matter. There is indeed 100 million to tackle organised crime. The problem with this is that it is occasional money and not structural money. Now Mrs Yeşilgöz says: I hear all my colleagues crying for more money. That's not so weird. I do not think we have a single fund of EUR 100 million. It doesn't matter if I think so, because I hear that from a lot of worried mayors. The call from the Chamber has also been very long and wide that you need to make this money structural because you cannot build long-term projects from one-off money. Mrs Yeşilgöz is right to say that she wants to know what is happening with that money and that it is being evaluated. That's obvious. We're not gonna spend any money without looking into the results. It is a problem that it is not structural money. The mayors are asking for it themselves. What is Mrs Yeşilgöz' response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u79	I think it is a very fair remark and a fair question to me. This is one of the reasons why I asked the Minister how we are going to assess the impact of the first 100 million. We all know that this problem did not arise today. Unfortunately, we have not eradicated this with each other for the next two years either. It's gonna take a longer breath. One of the most important points the mayors and the police, youth care and the Tax Administration mention is information sharing. Let's settle that with each other. Let's see what the effect of the money we're spending now is, so we can get very focused around the table to figure out what else is needed. I can reassure Mr Van Nispen. He'll always have the VVD next to him. I want to know what we're doing right now. What's the effect of that? How are we going to arrange super fast that the information that is there can be well shared, so that we can also deal with the criminals? We just haven't gotten there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u80	I'm not quite reassured anyway. My concern is that we will first carry out all kinds of thorough, long-term studies into what happened to the money and that we will want to measure and know everything exactly, when we know how big and persistent the problem is. That is why I believe that the appeal of many mayors and many MPs is right that one-off money cannot be used to build long-term structural projects. That is why it makes much more sense to now give the assurance that this money will not be gone. There is my concern and it could take Mrs Yeşilgöz away today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u81	I don't think we're very far apart. I really want to make sure that what we're doing now is the right thing and that it's really about money. I have heard several colleagues talk about sharing information. That's one of the most crucial things we hear from the field. That's what we hear from the mayors, the police and the social services. They see things, but if you can't share them, you can't deal with the problem either. We need to get together to focus on what's necessary. There's money and I think it's a little crazy to say that I already know by definition that there's money to be added. Chances are it's true, but let's take a look at the effect. What's it really gonna take? I don't think it's a competition who hates it the most. We all want to deal with it. We all want to see the effect. That was my call. I really don't think we're very far apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u82	What have Mr Van den Berge and Mr Krol coordinated? First Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u83	I would very much like to continue with the structural money. Of course, we have to share information. I think there is a large majority in the Chamber for that, but I would like there to be a majority in the Chamber who can imagine that those criminals we are fighting against can plan ahead. Those mayors can't do that, and those provincial directors can't. They can only do this in one way: as a government party, you say: Minister, from now on structuralally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr Krol is now very quickly ignoring a fundamental problem, namely that of sharing information. He says: yes, of course everyone wants it, there is a majority, so let's just do it. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. On the one hand, it is good that it does not work that way, because of course we also have to deal with privacy and data with which you have to be very careful. However, when dealing with big leaders and the scum, you have to look up the boundaries. I wonder if there's a majority for that. I also wonder if the Minister is going to do that. I want to make sure first. I want us to find the boundaries and share the information. I want us to go after the criminals. That takes other things than money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u85	I hear the VVD saying that Amsterdam must maintain. I assume the VVD believes that this also applies to other municipalities. The mayors I've been talking to are dying to keep up, but they need more handles. The undermining fund is a solution, but there is also a need for more capacity in the public prosecutor's office, more capacity in financial investigations and more investment in youth care and addiction care. There has been enormous savings in recent years. How does the VVD view this? Could we perhaps move in together so that we can take action on the preventive side as well as on the search and prosecution? Then we can really tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u86	Of course this plays in more municipalities, but in a different way and with a different problem. I mentioned Amsterdam, because we are here because of the Amsterdam report, but also because the left-wing government clearly indicates that there are very different priorities. That's what I see as Amsterdammer. I see where enforcement is going. It goes to kids who, because it's 30% degrees, swim in an area where it's not supposed to. It goes on to debate for hours about the philosophical significance of the I Amsterdam letters. That's what we've been going through in Amsterdam since GroenLinks is the biggest. I would very much like to set out the priorities so that people know: the board is here for me. Get to work on that first. Then I'll find out later if there was any more needed, but Amsterdam still has some steps to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u87	I'm not on the city council of Amsterdam, so I'm not going over the college either. However, I think it was the College and Mayor Halsema who asked for this report from Mr Tops and Mr Tromp. The mayor's just saying: Lower House, Rich, give me more handles to maintain. In that respect, I would say from a distance, because I do not live in Amsterdam, nor am I a member of the city council there, that it is being worked on and that the board and mayor Halsema are on top of it. My question was another one. I understand it's wider than Amsterdam. That's what we think. It is also Tilburg, Breda and Zeeland. I ask the VVD if we can work together to strengthen prevention, detection and enforcement. I'm not just talking about more blue on the street. It is also about strengthening the public prosecutor's office and strengthening youth care that has been severely cut back, and addiction care. More will have to be done than increase the number of cops on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u88	Fortunately, extra money also goes to the police and to tackle undermining. But all these municipalities themselves also indicate that they are not even able to share information properly. This is so crucial and so important. This is where we have to make the battle first. As far as I am concerned, we must be prepared to say that we are looking for the limits of what is possible. We are going to give the mayors, the youth services, the Tax Administration and anyone directly or indirectly involved in this type of crime the means and instruments to share this with each other. You'll see how it works. That is also why I cited the Top 600 approach in Amsterdam, because you saw what happens when justice, police and youth services work together. There were dozens of organizations sharing information with each other. So we need to find the limits of what we can. That's what's needed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u89	Finally, but no repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u90	In conclusion, President...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u91	You don't have to, because an interruption is just a question. But you like to conclude?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u92	I like to conclude. Let me summarize this briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u93	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u94	I think the answer from the VVD is no. Share more information and a little more enforcement, but no more structural solutions. I conclude that from the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u95	That is a wrong conclusion, but I look forward to the support of GroenLinks when we come up with proposals on how we are going to look up the borders to share information. It would be the first time that GroenLinks stands for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I like that we're going to work together now. I think this is my first plenary debate with Mrs Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u97	Yeşilgöz...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u98	I was afraid of it. I'm going to practice for a while, but I think it's better to have a quick cup of coffee with each other. It's easier. I do have a question. I'm sensing a momentum here. I heard in the corridors that perhaps tens of millions more are being allocated to undermining. I hear Mr Van Dam, CDA coalition partner, say: I want this to be made structural. I see two ministers who would like to do so. The VVD is "hard on crime." So why not use the momentum now to ensure that the 100 million will indeed be structured, and that it will be reflected in the documents for Prince's Day and in the budget? Maybe those pieces have already gone to the printer, but we've seen a side letter like that before. So anything is possible and it's not Friday yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u99	What I am wondering is whether Mrs Kuik has a good idea of what the effect of the first 100 million will be. What are we doing now? What will be the effect of that? And how are we going to judge that later to make sure that was the right path? Because we haven't seen that anywhere yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u100	That's right. I can tell you that this 100 million has occasionally been used rather fragmentedly and that I am not very happy with that. But I do know that there is still a great deal of enforcement capacity needed. Again, in your own city there are now companies that are becoming very big and that is what people feel. At the same time, we do not have the capacity to control that. It's Holendrecht, the city where this VVD spokesperson lives, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u101	It's a district.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u102	A district, excuse me. In the district of Holendrecht there are very busy enforcement teams, but there are neither the means nor the people to do so very actively. So in short, if I just focus on Amsterdam, I can see that there is a huge lack of capacity. The same story I hear from the mayor of Arnhem, the same story I hear from the mayor of Tilburg or from Eindhoven. I hear the same story from the mayor of Gilze-Rijen, who is sitting in the gallery right now. In short, the 100 million can be used really well in structural terms. Then we have to have a whole debate about where we want to use that money and that we also need to evaluate at the same time: at your service. But I'd say security is always top priority in the VVD. What's the slogan again? Well, we can almost see it all, because you always do so well. Take care of it now! I feel the momentum, the CDA colleague wants it, only Friday the ink is dry, so it's still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u104	In any case, I see a great deal of support for a firm approach to undermining. I have heard Mrs Kuik give many different examples of how to handle it super effectively when it was not about money. I mention sharing information, but also a neighbourhood approach, and I am committed to smart prevention and repression. So there's really a world to be won here: we share that. I'm not talking about years of evaluations, I just want to know what we're meeting here. What are we going to achieve with this money over the next few years? And I'm sure we'll figure it out when it's clear what else is needed after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u105	And why don't you join me for a cup of coffee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u106	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u107	Okay. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u108	Mr. Chairman. We need to talk about organized crime. You can call that undermining, but there is also discussion about that term. And you can argue about exactly what the size is. That is all very interesting, but the fact is that we have a major problem with organised crime. And no, that's not just Amsterdam, because we see it all over the Netherlands. Shooting in residential areas, liquidations involving the killing of innocent people; it has been left on its way for too long and the seriousness has now penetrated. But isn't it much too late? Shouldn't we have invested heavily in detectives earlier to strengthen the information position there and to act? A significant proportion of organised crime is drug-related, and of course we need to deal with it. But I also think that tackling the users and launching a kind of war against drug use in the Netherlands is not going to help. I really doubt that, even if it is only because of the export figures. Should we not move towards a new hierarchy of drugs internationally, taking into account the harmfulness more than at present, based on the latest scientific knowledge? In fact, our current classification of permitted drugs and prohibited drugs is rather arbitrary and has grown historically. Mr Tops and Mr Tromp are here today in the Chamber but are not taking part in the debate. I would like to read a quote from the opinion article, which I do wrong to the context, but I hope that will be forgiven. I would like a response from the Minister to the following quote. Mr Tops and Mr Tromp wrote: "The national government must prepare itself for controlled forms of legalisation of drugs. Maintaining a standard that is not shared by a large part of society is a question of difficulty." I hope that the Minister will be able to respond to this very comprehensively, because I think this is a very interesting observation. The call for less festivals does not seem the right SP. We are not going to halve the honorary division because so much police effort is needed or make payments in the banking sector impossible for half of the time because so much money is being laundered? I think that is a really bad way to go. It's not just about drugs. We really need to talk about the white-collar crime. We have become more and more fixated on the underworld as a society, but the scandals in the upper world actually undermine society much more. Think of manure fraud, dirty diesels, usury policies, derivatives scams, major corruption cases, such as Ballast Nedam and Shell, and the role banks such as ING and ABN AMRO play in money laundering. Think also of an office like KPMG, which regularly ignores rules, or the pharmaceutical industry. In the boardrooms there are also criminals who disrupt society, right in those boardrooms. But big companies are hardly being prosecuted. There will be a settlement or an improvement plan, sometimes even the own lawyers may investigate the case if agreements are made with the Public Prosecutor's Office, after which the book will be closed. Should we not even pay more attention to this, I ask the Minister. What else? The SP wants more attention to be paid to picking criminals. Take away the crime money. Hit them in the wallet. Follow the money. Take on the facilitators, the superworld that's helping with this. The Royal Notarial Professional Organisation also asks for research into the involvement of notaries. I think that's very wise. How is it that police and justice have been talking about financial detectives since the 1990s, but they have never managed to take away more than a few tens of millions a year? Indeed, this is very serious about the total amount of money that is laundered annually, estimated at some 19 billion. Only a few tens of millions a year are taken away, so that's not good at all. When are we really going to follow the money flows, I ask the Minister. And why would this minister suddenly succeed? Because it has been promised many times in the past. Shouldn't we more often check all kinds of foundations and constructions, and, if necessary, lift them, in the fight against criminal financial flows? What is the Minister going to do to get all the investigating bodies to work together for this one important task, namely to ensure that crime does not pay off? The SP also wants to invest significantly more in capacity. At the end of this cabinet period, there are fewer full-time operatives than at the beginning. The cuts in the police, customs and tax authorities are taking their toll. The extra money that the Minister is constantly stressing is not enough to clean it up. I told you, there are fewer full-time agents at the end of this cabinet period. How come we already have to read in the media that there is no extra money on Princess' Day? I read that in the media. Usually only the good news is leaked, but this also accidentally escaped the Ministry. If it is true, I ask the Minister. No extra money on Prince's Day, that can't be true, can it? The police are now, quite rightly, spending a lot of time on being present: monitoring and responding to citizens' requests for help. The police are very good at that, too. According to the SP, there is also a part of the solution here, I would like to emphasise one part of the solution. Ensure a good occupation of district agents, because just these eyes and ears in the district can signal early and intervene if, for example, brothers and sisters are at risk of slipping into crime and getting into the wrong environments. Then link that to local justice, which is fast, effective and visible to society. The SP has made proposals for this too many years ago. It is problematic that we always work with all kinds of projects. There's gonna be a bag of money, but it's not gonna stick, and then the cops are gonna do something else until the next project. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. Does the Minister see that, too? And how does he feel about the one-off 100 million for tackling organised crime? Is he prepared to say today that this is going to be structural? I don't really know why you should fill that fund with nothing but crime money. I wouldn't want to make it dependent on that. The money just needs to get there. The money's there, too, so let's take care of it. Finally. After the publication of the Tops and Tromp report, there were mainly indignant reactions from the VVD and the CDA. Surely the SP thought that was a bit remarkable, because since 1966, have we not had almost only ministers of justice from the CDA and the VVD? Surely it is not the case that all these problems have declined in these years? If the shoe fits, put it on today. In any case, I think it would be very good for the Minister to reflect on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sure it wasn't a coincidence that Mr Van Nispen closed with the year 1966. Mr. Chairman. When I started the debate, I was a little worried that it would be a very polarized discussion. I thought that was a bit the case in the media over the last few weeks. Now that I'm standing here, I think that's really not so bad. I think that's a good thing. I think we are actually in agreement on a great many points. I think that my contribution will also fall into this, although sometimes it may also cause some raised eyebrows. Mr. Chairman. We do know a few things. We know that there is a lot of money being made in the trade and production of drugs. We also know that this money leads to ruthless violence, with sometimes, unfortunately, innocent victims. We also know that dumping the ecstasy waste is a major problem, especially in the Brabant countryside. Perhaps the biggest problem is the huge sums of money being earned and laundered, because that ruins the legal upper world. The organized crime behind drugs I myself am not a fan of the term 'undermining', because it is too vague for me to say that I am absolutely asking for an adequate response. I'll get back to you on that. As far as I am concerned, the other side of this discussion should also be taken into account. Because why should we ban drugs if a lot of people in the Netherlands are no longer so concerned about moderate use of ecstasy or smoking a joint? Are we not maintaining the illegal market by banning these substances, which mainly benefit criminals? I don't really hear that from this Minister of Justice. He seems to have converted to the somewhat orthodox CDA wing, but I hope that the Minister of Justice sometimes thinks about these pressing questions. My first specific question to this Minister is: how does he look at the justification, but also the usefulness and necessity of tackling something that many people no longer regard as criminal? I believe that this is a fundamental question that every Justice Minister should ask himself from time to time. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, a war on drugs is not the right way forward. The past has nothing but failures. I refer to the American prohibition of alcohol, but also the less known but very rigorous actions by Gorbachev in the 1980s to get Russia off the bottle. All hopelessly failed. The fact that the Dutch investigation services take up thousands of kilos of cocaine every year but I do not think any less is being sniffed, fits in that list as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. I think we need a two-way approach. The disruptive effects of drugs must be combated as effectively as possible, but at the same time we must also think about keeping funds unnecessarily in the criminal circuit, much of which is literally shrugged off by a large part of the Netherlands when it comes to moderate use. Part of the solution ultimately lies in a well-regulated drug trade, most of which consider punishment unnecessary. But, Mr President, I am not naive in that. Legalisation and then regulation is neither political, legal nor practical. International conventions, angry neighbors and practical problems mean you can't just legalize drugs. In the Netherlands Mr Van Nispen rightly pointed out that there is a lot of drugs being produced and traded and that, of course, makes it extra complex. This means that we need to think internationally and at European level about a different approach. And even though we're going to try to regulate drugs in a different way, it won't be easy. Control and enforcement remain necessary in order to counter an illegal market alongside a legal market and to protect the integrity of a legal market. It is absolutely no easy way and certainly not a quick fix. I see Mrs. Helder at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u111	I thought I was watching that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u112	Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u114	At least my presence has been noted, Mr President, so thank you. I was actually referring to what Mr Groothuizen said about people who use drugs without problems. Is this really a problem-free use of drugs? The stuff has to be produced anyway. That's one. Drug-free? You can already hear that they want to introduce drug tests at work, that the THC level in soft drugs has become much higher, making the addictive effect much greater. On these two points: can there be a problem-free use of drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u115	A question in two parts. Part one, I think, is a bit of a matter of chicken and egg. Part of the problem is that it has to be produced illegally. I think we agree that this is problematic. But with a regulated, legal market, you might be able to deal with that part. I think there are people who can deal with drugs like a lot of people can deal with alcohol or other drugs, in a way that does not cause problems. But I also see that there are, of course, people who do not succeed, like cigarettes, with alcohol, with games of chance and with other things that can make life easier and sometimes also difficult. I think this could be done, but of course that does not mean that this is always the case. It is always wise to pay attention to prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr. Chairman. The quick fixes bring me to another point, for which there are no quick fixes, but that is important. We live in a society in which material prosperity is seen by many people as the ultimate proof of a successful life. Let me just call it the "South ash feeling." Young people measure their success with expensive clothes or a big car. With a drug career, this prosperity is also at hand for young people who cannot easily reach it in a legal way. I see the attraction of the drug circuit to less promising young people as a major problem. It therefore seems crucial to me to invest in offering alternatives and opportunities, but I also hear very little about this Minister of Justice. That is why my question to him is what he is doing in the cabinet to offer young people a good alternative, especially in the neighbourhoods where the prospects are less good and there are such entrapments. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. I shall return to the problems we are dealing with at the moment, because they are. The report De backder van Amsterdam identifies a number of these problems: lack of police capacity, lack of information and a criminal summit that remains out of the question. They are all understandable points, but they are not new and probably not all one-two-three to solve. One of the lines that many experts and people from practice point out is that I support that line, which is the taking away of criminal property. Let us not be too gloomy about that. There are quite a few successes. The police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the IRS are getting better at taking criminal money. If you looked ten years ago, the results were really less than they are now. But it can and must be much better. One problem is the fact that organisations all have their own removal targets. This is an obstacle to full cooperation. Organisations mainly look at what they can bring in themselves, not so much at the workplace, but at the level of management. I have already seen many nice plans from the cabinet on how to strengthen the approach to organised crime and money laundering. That's all wonderful, but I don't really see anything about this. That is why my question to the Minister is: when is he going to come up with an overall objective of taking it away, so that we can break this stimulus? Mr. Chairman. As a result, the following. I'll finish with that. Mr Heerma recently advocated the creation of a Dutch DEA. I'm actually wondering if we don't need much more of a club dedicated to financial investigations, with sufficient specialisation and resources. In the search, it's still like that, I know that unfortunately from my own experience, men and kilos are always going to die. I understand part of that. Violence, sex cases and home invasions get people much more direct. It's tempting to run after that, but that leaves the financial approach, especially with the police, behind. Wouldn't something from a financial police even be an option to make more work of taking away criminal assets? And then you can still talk about whether that should be a separate unit, or just a fixed unit within the police. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u118	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The advantage of moving towards the end of the first term as a speaker is that you can also look at the debate a little bit. That's what I'm gonna try to do. I agree with Mr Groothuizen on his own. If I followed the discussions in the media over the last few weeks, I was afraid that this would be a fairly unsophisticated debate in which it would only be about brutal repression. That is not the debate so far. I am happy about that in itself, because I think we need to bridge that divide, that polarisation between harsh repression and enforcement on the one hand, and on the other hand the decriminalisation of drug use and prevention and information on the other. We need to find a better balance between these two almost different worlds. This debate is positive in itself, but at the same time I also hear things that cause me great concern. Let me point out that GroenLinks is also very concerned about the problems of drug crime. Of course, we are regularly alarmed by articles in the media, by investigations such as those of Mr Tops and Mr Tromp, who are also here today. We know the footage of people in Brabant who are afraid of drug criminals who force them to rent out their barn for xtc production or weed cultivation. These are terrible images, but we also know the terrible images of parents of vulnerable young people in Amsterdam or Rotterdam-Zuid, who are at an end and do not know what to do anymore. That is, of course, the problem with organized drug crime, as a number of colleagues have said: it is a multifaceted monster. On the one hand, we have the natural heads of the monster, literally. You could say the head of the snake, the brains behind organized crime. These are, of course, heavy boys who make a lot of money, but at the same time there are, of course, a lot of vulnerable young people on the tail of that monster, who are also simply victims and recruited. Sometimes, for example, pizza couriers are lured in because they can make a lot more money by passing a few grams of cocaine than by passing pizzas. Once they're pulled into that drug world, they're gonna climb up that ladder, too. So I don't want to trivialize it in any way. Some of those drug couriers end up becoming tough top criminals, of course, but that's not how it starts. That is why my group and GroenLinks think it is very important that we look not only at harsh repression and harsh enforcement, but also at prevention, in a very realistic way, because you will need all these measures. Of course, where organized drug crime is concerned, you will also need repression and enforcement. Of course we'll have to do that. This requires tailor-made work on a local level. A number of colleagues have already argued in favour of this. I also support pleas to make the undermining fund structural in order to provide municipalities with tools to organise knowledge exchange better and more effectively and also in other ways to give municipalities more tools to intervene in that criminal drug world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u120	I just sat down when the spokesperson of D66 made his speech, because I thought that we would probably get about the same message from GroenLinks. I welcome the input that this is a substantive debate and not a debate at the edges, with screaming and that sort of thing. I was a little disappointed myself that during my speech you started talking about criminalising, because I didn't make any proposals for doing anything in criminal law. It's about society that matters to me. But the extremes in that discussion are not only at the back, in criminalising, but also at the front. I would like to ask you something on that point. In December 2018, GroenLinks conceived the plan to bring the production of xtc under the direction of the government. That's what your colleague used to get all the media. To be honest, I think this is also a form of polarisation in the current period of time, because I think you also know that a lot of parties do not feel at all about going into a form of normalization. My question to you is how GroenLinks, also in view of the report by the gentlemen who are now sitting in the back of the couch, is currently opposed to the proposal to normalise that production of ecstasy and bring it under the direction of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u121	Let me say first of all that I too am glad that we are now heading in the direction of a conversation. I think that's very positive. I'm gonna say a few things about criminalizing later. Mr Van Dam is perhaps right that he is not directly in favour of bringing more under criminal law, but if employers are going to test workers for drug residue in their blood, I think that is a form of criminalisation. I'm also wondering how meaningful that is. For example, I would also be concerned about a surgeon who comes to work with an alcohol cone, in which I do not want to compare alcohol, soft drugs and hard drugs in any way one-on-one. It is precisely in this area, organised crime, that there are, of course, very large differences between these two. But when it comes to health, they look alike. As far as the specific question is concerned, my group is indeed in favour of looking closely at the legalisation of certain forms of drugs. Then we're talking about the production of those drugs, including ecstasy. We're not saying you have to do this today in the morning. You have to look very carefully at how to organize that. I would also like to put that question to the Minister today. I know his answer, but for the sake of completeness, I'd like to ask him this. The reason why we are here is that we are now seeing that the production of xtc continues to harden. Crime is also increasing in this sector. Crime is getting harder and harder. We see through all kinds of bans and also commandments that more and more chemicals need to be used. They end up in nature, in the environment. That is precisely our point: the further criminalisation of drug production and use is not a solution. As I have read Mr Tops and Mr Tromp's report, so do they. They call for a comprehensive approach. They are therefore in favour of repression and enforcement, and I have heard a number of colleagues here today, but they are also in favour of looking carefully at controlled legalisation of production, where this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u122	I have trouble with that, because in the end you end up in a hip-hip-hip society where everything is always possible. So we fight drugs and we produce them. I think it is very important that that government also has a clear role at some point. I see now, for example, that the regular approach to hemp growing becomes extremely difficult with those coffee shops in mind, because judges say: on one side of the country you do pilots and here we are going to fight it. I also see this danger when we expect the government to fight ecstasy and the government to produce it. Isn't that a completely contradictory logic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u123	As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to separate the moral judgment on drug use and the question of how we, as a society, deal with drug production and drug use. If it were my kids and they would say, "Daddy, I want to take a pill," I wouldn't say, "Go ahead, go out and buy a pill." Then I would also say: inform yourself carefully first, look at the risks, see for example what the Trimbos Institute advises on this, should you? That's my moral judgment as a person. At the same time, and that is what I think is my role as a representative of the people, we need to look at how we, as a society, deal with drugs. We know that drugs are being used, we know that there is demand for drugs. Then we think it would be wiser to organise and regulate it better where possible under controlled conditions, at controlled outlets and controlled production points. It is precisely in this way that we can effectively tackle organised crime, which is becoming increasingly harsh and for which the solutions that are being proposed today do not provide conclusive answers either. We also do not argue that you can buy ecstasy pills later at the supermarket.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u124	Very briefly. That's exactly the essence. What do we tell children's parents and do we have a consistent story? With the story of GroenLinks, I can't go anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. Can I respond to that or should I do it my own time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u126	You may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u127	Very briefly. I welcome this discussion, because I really appreciate it, but I cannot agree with Mr Van Dam's conclusion. I'd advise my kids the same thing when it comes to alcohol. If they say, "Daddy, I'm having a prom tomorrow" or "I'm going to a booze party tomorrow," I'd ask them, "Would you do that?" Don't you think about the risks first? And yet the production of alcohol is legal. We simply allow beer breweries in the Netherlands; they simply pay taxes. So as far as I'm concerned, this is a very consistent story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u128	I'm going to use the term "vulnerable young people." I have referred in my contribution to the website of the Foolish Mothers. These are mothers who have experience with the fact that, despite a very good education, teenagers do not tie you up, you should not do that either. As far as I am concerned, the term 'vulnerable young people' is being used a little too widely in this debate, at least by Mrs van GroenLinks. Then I am not talking about young people being tempted to do some suspicious ATM transactions just below the border for €600 so that they don't run into trouble. I am not talking about the young people who are going to shoot around a schoolyard with a gun for a small amount of money. These are not vulnerable young people, they are young people who consciously choose to make quick money. Does the colleague of GroenLinks make that distinction too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u129	I make that distinction, but I think I was just explaining very clearly how this is done in practice. That's what I hear from municipalities and police officers. Those young people are lured at a young age. Not all of them, there are probably among them who do it for the quick money or to buy a nice phone or a scooter, but there are also many young people among them who don't see a way out. Young people who don't see a financial way out. Children of minimums who have a hard time in this country. And, yes, they see a way out of bringing around drugs, for example. I don't talk it right, by the way, but that's how they get in. As far as I am concerned, these are vulnerable young people who often climb the drug career ladder. This is problematic and we want to address it, not only with harsh repression, but also with information and perspective with a balanced story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u130	With these young people, my group sees a role for brutal repression, because it is true: in the successful neighbourhoods there is no problem sniffing or taking a pill. I quote a colleague, but it is falling down in the vulnerable neighbourhoods. That's why I hit it and Mayor Halsema said it, too. I am also talking about these young people, and my group believes that there is a real need for repression there. Because you just have to let it out of your head to liquidate someone for a few hundred euros. How can you ever successfully participate in society? That one time you come into contact with drugs: every young person makes mistakes, that's what he or she can learn from. However, this requires prevention. I had hoped that Mr van GroenLinks would make that distinction too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u131	Well, if Mrs Helder had listened carefully to me, she would have heard that I made that distinction. I spoke very clearly about the vulnerable youngster who is being recruited, who is being lured into it, about the youngster who does not find a financial way out. The pizza courier thinks "if I once bring a few grams of cocaine to the Zuidas, then I make many times more money than with those four pizzas I bring around." That's how it starts. Of course, if we are talking about liquidations or shootings, then we have to deal with that, then there must be enforcement. Those kids need to be arrested. I agree with all of that. Only, for many young people, not for all; the group is very diverse and it starts much earlier and relatively innocent. Then there's so much more you can do with prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u132	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Prevention is to make it clear to young people what the harmful effects of drugs can be. The young people who are being lured choose the money. They are not vulnerable; they make a choice. And I think that's a really big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u133	Let me conclude by saying that Mrs Helder obviously cannot imagine people who are suffering very hard in this country and earn too little and who sometimes do something very wrong. I'm not talking about liquidation; I'm talking about the young person who starts out as a drug mule. I'm not saying that's okay. I'm not saying there would be no enforcement at all. However, I say that we should not have a kind of tunnel vision of harsh repression, harsh enforcement, harsh repression, because that does not help those people, and that does not make our society any safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u135	Then I'll continue my argument. Mr. Chairman. If it is up to GroenLinks, then we are going to work on a balanced approach. It consists of prevention and controlled legalization of production wherever possible, but it also consists of repression and enforcement wherever it is necessary. In this respect, I can agree with what many colleagues have already said. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, too, the undermining fund becomes a structural fund and we are going to provide structural tools to municipalities to get a grip on criminal drug trafficking. Part of it is also about changing laws and regulations. Then it's also about the intertwinedness of the underworld and the upperworld. That is something that we also clearly read in Mr Tops and Mr Tromp's report. This means that the money flows from the drug circuit end up in the real estate market and other super-worldly economic sectors. Then you will also have to give municipalities a handle so that they can apply more regulation to the real estate market and gain more insight into financial flows. I said it earlier in a brief debate of interruption: then, for example, you will also have to increase the financial detective capacity and then you will also have to increase the capacity for prosecution in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Because if we can learn one thing from researching effective forms of approach, then it is that serious crime has a huge impact on the chances of getting caught. If a young person knows that he may be caught, but is never prosecuted or that it takes two or three years for him to be prosecuted, then you can talk about measures of punishment and more blue in the street, but then it is also wrong somewhere else in our justice chain. I would also like to ask the Minister: how does he view this? Does he want to offer municipalities more tools to regulate, for example, the real estate market and to gain more insight into financial flows? Is the Minister also prepared to see if the financial investigator's capacity could be increased, for example at the Financial Expertise Centre? I would also like to join with the questions that have been raised earlier on information sharing. Does the Minister see any other way of making this information sharing easier, other than through the example protocol he is creating? Mr President, I see I have one minute left. I would like to make another point briefly. I just gave GroenLinks' vision of how we should deal with drugs. About 50 years ago, President Nixon started the war on drugs. In the Netherlands, there is no war on drugs, but in the mid-1980s the Netherlands did participate in some of them. Since the mid-1980s, policy has become more repressive. We do wonder what its effectiveness has been. Should we not think about better forms of approach? We also see this in other countries. There are more and more countries looking at decriminalisation and controlled legalisation. I am thinking of Canada, Portugal and more and more states within the United States. My question to the Minister is actually a very simple one: could the Minister, within the framework of the UN, see if, together with all the members of the United Nations, we can map out what are effective approaches to dealing with drug crime? And what approaches don't work? I believe that we can then have a much more fruitful debate with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday I took part in the march for security in Amsterdam, my own hometown. I walked with a neighbor of a boy who was shot last week, an 18-year-old rapper. Other people from Zuidoost also walked along. The liquidations are only increasing in Amsterdam, sometimes two in one day, in my own city, sometimes in the city centre. Mr. Chairman. We are holding this debate on substance. That's a good thing, because we're really trying to get a step further. That's good from all the parties here. But I would like to point out on the one hand the double left and, on the other hand, the double government. Let me give you examples of the left-wing parties. They sometimes take advantage of each other when it comes to the consumption of meat, the emission of greenhouse gases, the burning of fireworks and how terrible that is, but when we, the CDA and the Christian Union, ask us to come up with prevention proposals when it comes to the important health benefits that we can achieve from those vulnerable young people who have just been talked about, then the left does not give up. It seems as if the seventy-seven mentality in this Chamber has stuck with them: a kind of walhalla, nirvana. That may seem good for the importance of the yogasnuivers and the Zuidasslikkers, who can undoubtedly make very thoughtful choices themselves, but that does not apply to the teen from Rotterdam-Zuid. The same does not apply to the 30s with a slightly intelligible limitation. For them, it is not social to have all the pleasures just for the taking. That's not merciful, is it? And I am not talking about attracting drug tourism, including in Amsterdam. Mr. Chairman. I know that normalization of drug use is a thorn in the eye of this minister. But I also find his plea complicated, because the government has now developed some kind of bullshit when it comes to drug policy. We'll have mayors roll up pot plantations, but let them grow pot themselves. We roll up drug labs, but we also offer 20 places in the country to have pills tested. Isn't that also an incredibly bizarre thing to do? And yes, those weed trials in ten congregations that I mentioned are really one of the bones of this coalition agreement for my group. And let me say it again: we are very sceptical about the results of these tests. For us, they are absolutely not an opacity for legalization, quite the contrary. But is the Minister also going to tell himself his often mentioned mirror when it comes to the normalization of drugs by government policy? Shouldn't we just stop offering drug testing from government-funded institutions, like the Trimbos Institute? The culture of standardisation must be broken once, mustn't it? I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, information sharing. Colleagues have also paid attention to this. Of course, I am looking not only at the drug user, but also at what happens to the money they spend on drugs. That money makes sure that everything is for sale to criminals. Ordinary entrepreneurs are tempted to make an empty barn available or to overlook a transaction. Municipalities know it's happening but are also bound with hands and feet, among other things by privacy restrictions. Frank Paauw of the Amsterdam police said that the discussions between police and other authorities seemed like a game of Hints: they should not say who it is, while everyone would benefit if information were shared. The Minister knows these signals, but the mayors and the police ask for them time and time again. Does this minister hear their request? And what can he do to make openings that bring down the walls erected by the Empire? Mr. Chairman. My colleague, Mr Van der Graaf, has already drawn attention to this: the so-called crumb thieves recruited by criminal organisations at an early age. I get the impression that the municipalities are not sufficiently clear at the moment how these guys are recruited, what the negative role models are in their environment and what alternatives we offer them. I see this not only in this group, but also in questions about complex real estate transactions, licensing systems and new ways of drug dumping. Can we not provide municipalities with more ammunition to fight drug crime and undermining? If municipalities have these kinds of complex information questions, where can they go at the moment? Can they also, perhaps co-financed by the government, have research done in their municipalities? Mr. Chairman. My fourth point is enforcement. Where legalisation has a misplaced social image, as I said earlier, researchers Tops and Tromp rightly argue that enforcement has a misplaced right-wing image. Enforcement is what you do for vulnerable people. The police often want to maintain, but they don't know how. With the many millions spent by the cabinet, policemen will join us. They're being trained right now. When are the police forces really gonna notice this? Did I hear the Minister say that at the moment there are no means of working towards a structural implementation of the undermining fund, but that this is ultimately his express wish? Is that right? Finally, Mr President. Not only do we need more people, but we also need more direction. We have heard a nice proposal from our colleagues from the CDA. We have added whether it is not an idea to add the NCTV, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, or perhaps play a role in its direction. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on these five proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. This was also the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-6.u139	I'll suspend the sitting until 1:45 p.m. and then we'll start with the arrangement. I'll take a look at the minister: is 45 minutes enough for you? Yeah? Then I'll suspend until 1:50 p.m. We then have the arrangement first and then we continue to respond on the part of the government.
