ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party has informed me that he will take part in this debate from 1.30 p.m. The debate today is about the General Financial Reviews, the budget line IXB. I would also like to welcome everyone, including the people in the public gallery, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. "The eurozone is heading towards recession," headlined The Financial Daily last week, but the sun is still shining for this minister. The debt is safely below 50% and the money is blotting against the boards of his ministry. In 2017, there was a surplus of about 10 billion euros. Last year there was a surplus of EUR 12 billion. This year a surplus of EUR 14 billion is expected. That is EUR 36 billion too much collected tax money, because that is what it is. This Minister is now finally giving back EUR 3 billion. Of the 36 billion he raised too much, we get a crumb back, and we have to be happy about that. Mr. Chairman. The fact that this Minister cannot stand up for him is also demonstrated by the fact that he no longer has to pay interest on the loans. In fact, he's getting money. A negative interest rate; that is a dream of every finance minister. There's a happy minister here, and you can see that. But this minister is so busy counting the money that he forgets the ordinary citizens. They hardly see anything of all that wealth. This is why consumer confidence didn't fall below zero last month for nothing. A small majority believe that the Netherlands is going in the wrong direction. That is not really a reason to applaud this Minister. We also see that the ECB has now reduced interest rates in such a way that our savings and pensions spontaneously evaporate. Last week, Lex Hoogduin tweeted: "The value of the savings decreases by 3% per year, regardless of the capital return tax." That means half the purchasing power of your money in 24 years. After 50 years, there is still a quarter of them left and an eighth after 75 years. In other words, just a moment and our savings bank booklet is empty. Everyone can see that the ECB is doing something wrong, but nobody intervenes. Neither is Klaas Knot, our man in Frankfurt. He struggles a little bit for the stage, but he doesn't get any further than that. Why doesn't he step out of the ECB board like Sabine Lautenschläger or rather Jürgen Stark? That's the least of it, isn't it? You don't want to be a member of a club that runs a completely wrong course and which you disagree with in principle? Klaas Knot sees this quite differently. He defends the wrong policy even in the Netherlands. He even admits it. He says: I am not with the ECB to defend Dutch interests. Clearly, Klaas Knot is not our man in Frankfurt. That's why the PVV says, "Get this guy out of here." We want someone who defends the Dutch interests, just like Draghi does with the Italian interests; he does no different. The ECB is doing so wrong and is so bad for the Netherlands that it is incomprehensible that we accept it so easily. This minister, too, should take the fist on the table, but he is hiding behind the independence of the ECB. Something or someone robs you of all your savings and you don't say anything. That's this minister. Klaas Knot even wants to cut our pensions as quickly as possible. "Short can't wait; let's take the pain quickly," he says. That's the pain he caused himself. He is co-responsible for the ECB's policy and determines the rules and the accounting rate. Mr. Chairman. Why does this minister refuse to look at the real returns of pension funds? Pension assets have doubled in ten years and the participants have not seen an extra cent in return. The ABP made an investment profit of 50 billion this year, but has to count from DNB by 2.25 billion. What's that supposed to mean? Why should the participants not benefit from the investment profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'll be brief, because I promised. My question to Mr Van Dijck is about purchasing power development. He speaks very clearly about it. Now the PVV has once had the opportunity to do something about it. So don't scream along the sidelines and give all kinds of qualifications, but really do something about it. Now I ask Mr Van Dijck: how was purchasing power development during the time when he was part of the cabinet through tolerance support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	When we tolerated it, I believe in 2010, so nine years ago we were in the eye of the financial crisis. There wasn't much room for purchasing power back then. But now the money's fucking up against the skirts. I just prepped it. There's 36 billion in surplus. Now there is room for purchasing power and what does this cabinet do? It has promised that everyone would notice that things are improving economically. That's what I blame them for. When we tolerated it, it went very badly economically. We had a deficit of 5%. Now we have a surplus. They promised, but they won't come up with their money. They don't give people purchasing power. Last year, half the people on it went backwards. The year before, half the people on it also deteriorated. It was about 0.2%. People complain stone and bone and can't keep their heads above water. I blame them for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	Not only during this period but also in recent years, the PVV has constantly indicated that purchasing power can be improved. And I think he can do better. But I do note that at the time it was possible and the PVV could have sent it, the purchasing power for all Dutch people fell by 0.5% and then by 0.8%. I find it a little too easy to shout year after year about purchasing power. If you have the opportunity to do something about it, do it too, otherwise it will be such an annual cheap talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Again, the period of nine years ago and the present cannot be compared. If you're talking about a deficit of 95 billion or a surplus of 36 billion. Those are two different quantities. ABP top lady Corine Wortmann rang the alarm clock this weekend and called on the cabinet to apply the rules more realistically. Last Monday she even received support from ex-president of DNB, Nout Wellink. If that man can't return, I'll ask the minister. This policy of unrealistic rules is likely to cut down 2 million people unnecessarily next year. I can still hear the Minister say on Princess Day: current interest rates are unprecedentedly low; this is complicated for savers, which is complicated for pension funds, but at the same time it offers opportunities for me to invest in sustainable economic growth. Complicated? The Minister should be ashamed of himself! The Minister seems to think that an investment fund for sustainable growth is more important than our savings or our pensions. That's what he calls complicated. Pensioners are all the way to the water. That's the problem. Pensioners have fallen 5% in recent years. A couple with a pension of €20,000 has now surrendered €200 per month. Instead of compensating this couple, they are now getting €6. And then the discount has to be off. Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn calculates what a person with a pension of €700 can expect. In two years' time, €580 will be left. Out of the €700 will be €580 in two years' time. Shouldn't the Minister be ringing all the alarm bells? My appeal to the Minister is today: take those discounts off the table. I don't think the Minister sees the real problem. I'm gonna go back to purchasing power. People have turned in a lot in the past few years, and they've been sucking in on their savings. The economy grew by more than 10%, but people's net disposable income fell. People have paid for the crisis and would notice that it is going better economically. That was the promise. But they don't feel anything. In fact, half of the Netherlands went down last year and so did the year before. The PVV has often advocated a real purchasing power impulse, and that is urgently needed. By reducing VAT, by reducing rents and eliminating the risk, this can all be easily paid out of the 36 billion surplus. We do not think that the tax on profits of multinationals is necessary either. Now the Dutch are up and not Shell. Not Wopke, but Henk and Ingrid. They've had to bleed long enough. Finally, Mr President. Unfortunately, we have to note that the cabinet is destroying more than you like. We had the best pension system in the world, and that must be destroyed now. Get rid of the capital cover. Away with pension security. Away with solidarity. And why? Why did care for the elderly have to be broken down? Health care used to be affordable, but 38% of households are now not getting around due to the excessive cost of care. In recent years, the premium increased sharply by €362 and its own risk by €230. We also had an agricultural sector that we could be proud of, but it is now being turned upside down; we saw that yesterday with all the protests from the farmers. Farmers are being thrown away as environmental criminals who have to reduce their livestock. And we had such a beautiful system of social security, but that too had to believe in it. The WW, the fire protection, the AOW age, it all blew up and everything had to break. Why, I ask this minister. Over the past decade, social rentals have increased by almost 30%, with the result that 800,000 tenants are now financially on the ground according to the Nibud. The basic scholarship went down. The housing market had to be kicked. The mortgage rules, the interest relief, the Wet-Hillen, everything had to be demolished. And finally, the charges went up by 20 billion. Collective burden pressures have increased by almost 5% over the last ten years, from 35% to 39.2%. The economy grew by 10% but net disposable income decreased. Everything became more expensive, the groceries, the energy bill, the insurance, the care and the rent. It is therefore not surprising that one and a half million families face payment problems according to the Nibud. That's one in five families or 21%, twice as many families as seven years ago. And that is all the result of cabinet policy, by taking unnecessary measures that ultimately make the Netherlands worse. So my final question to this minister is: why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	Two weeks ago we heard from many parties that they distance themselves from the neoliberal course that the Netherlands has been sailing for some time. If you listen to the story of the PVV, you might conclude that the PVV is not really neoliberal anymore, but the question is what are the actions that go with it. We have just heard from Mr Azarkan that you have also participated; you have tolerated a neo-liberal cabinet. Two weeks ago we saw again that if it is convenient and convenient, you are even willing to sell the ABN. Normally, you always say you want a people's bank and always want to fight for a people's bank together with the SP, but when it suits you, you also want to sell the ABN. Are you still in favour of selling the ABN with what happened in mind last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	If only we had sold ABN two weeks ago, we would now have received 2 billion more, but unfortunately that motion didn't make it then and it didn't. So I guess you're all very sorry about that now. ABN has already been sold for 46% or 44%. We are indeed in favour of a People's Bank and we have more eyes on SNS REAAL as a People's Bank or the People's Bank itself than ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO was more meant to give citizens a once-in-a-lifetime thank you for saving the bank and paying for the crisis and that was exactly Rutte's €1,000. Unfortunately, it is still €800, but then it was €1,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	This confirms what I want to emphasise, namely that the PVV, once it suits her, pretends not to be neoliberal and as if she is on the side of the people, but actually she is as neoliberal as the VVD. I even have a motion in which the PVV calls for the collective agreements no longer to be declared binding. What people you claim to stand up for have fought for for years and what they have brought in along with the pensions you are now standing up for, you now want to wipe out. I therefore ask the PVV to distance itself from this. I fear that the PVV will sell the pensions, the national bank and the collective agreements if it so wishes, and that it will be prepared to put all those things aside for the people the PVV claims to stand up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	The SP spokesperson doesn't have to be afraid of that. He may think that the sale of ABN AMRO is not in the interest of the people, but if we could give everyone €1000 from the sale of ABN AMRO, we would say: thank you for saving our bank, because without you we would no longer exist. Then it is in the interests of the people. And that we want to turn SNS into a public bank does not alter our previous position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Tony van Dijck. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. For the VVD this budget is dedicated to the middle incomes, the hardworking Dutch. Whether at an office in Leeuwarden, at the construction site in Venlo or at a factory on the Maasvlakte, you are committed to another, you try to make the Netherlands a little better every day and the lives of the people around you more beautiful, you deserve our full support, from the VVD and as far as we are concerned from the cabinet. The VVD welcomes this budget. Extra money is being allocated to those middle incomes, the nurse, the construction worker and the secretary. 3 billion additional burden relief and additional money for public sector, security and defence investments. I don't think anyone can argue with that. My first question is how we also financially achieve the Heerma/Dijkhoff motion on the drug unit and the fight against undermining. I would also like to talk today about three issues: the position of the middle income now, their position in the future and the growth capacity of the economy. First of all, the position of middle incomes now. For the VVD, the most important task for the Rutte III cabinet is that people in our country will benefit from the fact that things are improving. Despite the reduction in charges, there is still a concern for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	I want to be able to listen to Mrs De Vries' story. That starts with the definition of middle income. Can she tell us exactly who she means by that? That term is extremely popular; I see that all parties are suddenly looking for the middle income. Who are these people and how does Mrs De Vries define them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	I think that everyone is indeed using a different definition. I would think about the income from €30,000 to €60,000 to €70,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think that's exactly the problem. If there is talk of an income of €30,000, then a secretary is not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think we have also taken a lot of measures for lower incomes. It just depends on what kind of secretary you are. I think it is important that we do a little extra for the middle incomes now. We also see that measures have already been taken for a lot of others; I will come back to that in a moment. We believe that it is the middle income that is suffering, and we therefore believe that it is important that we aim to reduce the burden of EUR 3 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	What I do not understand, then, is that I think Mrs De Vries will come back to it, but she herself brought up the issue of relief. If the VVD takes the middle class seriously, will the top rate for the highest incomes go down? The VVD chooses not to use budgetary space for the middle class, but for the highest incomes, which also improve most. That doesn't rhyme with each other, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	I believe that we have put in place a comprehensive package, in which we have made a balanced distribution of purchasing power. In doing so, we have really put the emphasis on middle incomes. I shall say a few words about the top rate, perhaps Mr Snels will be very happy about it then, and I almost do not think so, because I know that he is in a very different race. But for us, the most important thing was to use the extra money that has been released in this budget for the middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mrs De Vries has only been working for one minute, but she will certainly come back to your point, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	I will come back to a lot of points about which perhaps all the interruptions are burning. I've already said something about middle income. It was not for nothing that my party leader Mark Rutte started in June about purchasing power for middle incomes. As a government, we can only give tax cuts, but the gravity of wages is still drawing purchasing power down too much in recent years. Hence the call of the VVD for large companies to increase wages where possible. It cannot be explained that profits are at record level, that salaries at the top are rising sharply and that the ordinary people in those companies do not profit sufficiently. The VVD opts for those middle incomes with the utmost conviction, for the hardworking Dutch. We see that this group is often struggling, even with these good economic conditions. Many government policies focus on the social safety net, low incomes. That's good, that's what we're a civilized country for. But the result is often that the middle class is just outside everything. Mr. Chairman. When we talked about the budget this summer, the priority of the VVD was clear: more money must be put into the wallet, especially with this group. I'm glad you did, too. €3 billion extra for the middle class and the hardworking Dutch. And the tax relief from 2021 is being brought forward for another year. With a year's reduction in the burden, as the Minister of Finance himself said, we have not solved the fear of falling. It's gonna take more than that. As far as the VVD is concerned, we would have given even more relief. The VVD will continue to work for this in the coming years. In addition to the additional tax relief in income tax, there will also be a reduction in the energy tax by about €100 on average per family. We're gonna make savings tax fairer, because you paid more taxes than savings. My colleague from the PVV just said it as well. Even the top rate is for the first time below 50%. We also take measures on the housing market, so that starters and other people get to a house earlier. Mr. Chairman. If we want the middle class to continue to improve in the coming years, then there is also a great task for ourselves. This concerns the rules we set ourselves and the ambition we have for the future. First of all, those rules. Budgetary rules appear to be apolitically defined by study groups; senior officials at the Ministry of Finance, but the opposite is true. They are political and there are a number of budgetary rules which may make the life of the Minister of Finance very pleasant, but which, on the contrary, make it difficult to improve the position of middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	The VVD is a manoeuvrable party. Last year the locational climate for and locational climate was after and now the middle incomes have become the main mantra. Doesn't Mrs De Vries think that the lower incomes of pensioners with a small pension, tenants, are also entitled to benefit from economic prosperity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	I certainly think those groups should be able to take advantage of it. I think that the purchasing power figures also show a plus, but of course we have to make a lot of comments about that, because these are forecasts. But I am quite honest that this time we have really chosen those middle-incomes and those working people, which we have also focused on, because we see that they are often the forgotten groups and they are also having a hard time at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mrs De Vries talks about middle incomes. I don't think anyone in politics is against that. That's why the VVD embraces that term. But I do not understand very well that the government is giving half a billion dollars to reduce the tax rate on the highest income, which is already making the most progress, by bringing the top rate below 50%, while so little is being done for the people with the lowest incomes, who can hardly afford the rent, who really have the energy burden, who do not always have well-insulated houses. I also mention the elderly who are under pressure with their pensions. I do not understand that those highest incomes get six to ten times more than the lowest incomes. That's not even fair to the VVD, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	The Central Planning Bureau has indicated that the middle incomes come out best. I have also said that a great deal of attention is always paid to low incomes. I also think that measures have now been taken for them, for example the measure to increase the healthcare allowance. But again, it has really been a very conscious political choice of ours to put the emphasis on those hardworking Dutch, on those middle incomes. You may not be able to support that choice. It's possible. But that has been our conscious political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'd like to finish this point anyway. Recent studies by Finance and Social Affairs show that the marginal burden burden on the middle class is above 80% and sometimes even higher. So if you're a teacher or a police officer making a promotion or getting a periodic one, you're only gonna have 20% of that. That should be the priority of the VVD. What does the VVD do and what does this cabinet do? Lowering the marginal pressure of the highest incomes. I don't understand any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think everyone here would like to do something about that marginal pressure. I am also pleased that this cabinet has already taken measures, for example with regard to the rent payment. The hard phasing-out limit is reduced more slowly, thus reducing the burden. The tax system consists of all kinds of building blocks, which the Secretary of State is working hard on right now. I think it's one of the important tasks for the future to see how you can solve the problem of marginal pressure. I think it is a problem that everyone here in the House of Representatives sees and would like to solve. But I also see that you can't go from the floor to the attic in one step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	That's kind of my problem. The previous cabinet has already tossed 5 billion against it. That was for a tax review that didn't come. This cabinet has already done so-called tax reforms, but we have not solved the real problems of the middle class and yet the VVD is constantly focusing on the highest incomes. Then I think, if the VVD opts for modal incomes and incomes above them, that the VVD constantly chooses for one half of the Netherlands and forgets the other half of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u30	I must honestly say that I find that a bit strange of what we are doing in this budget at the moment and what we are doing in addition to EUR 3 billion of relief. That is precisely what is being used in a very targeted way. I think that's precisely why it ends up with those middle incomes. So I do not understand why there should be so much disagreement about this now. If everyone is in favour of middle income, I would say: support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u31	The expected results of the policy are, of course, reflected in the purchasing power of the Central Planning Bureau. If we look at that and leave the middle incomes for a while and look only at the highest incomes, so about four times the legal minimum wage and more, we see that they are making almost a percentage point more progress than the lowest income group, people who cannot even earn the legal minimum wage. What is the justification of the VVD for the difference between the lowest and the highest incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u32	So we have now looked at these middle incomes in particular. I see that the higher incomes are far less favourable than the middle incomes. That has been a conscious choice to send. I understand that the SP might prefer to have more for low incomes. That is possible, but this has been our political choice: really the focus on middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u33	The cabinet can't focus on just one thing, can it? It's not like you're gonna choose the middle incomes and forget the lowest incomes, is it? Surely you can make sure that middle income improves and the lowest income improves, as long as those highest incomes turn in just a little more? The highest incomes increase by 2.3%. If you convert that into euros, it is thousands of euros more a year than someone in a lower income group. I'm asking you very sharply again. What is the reason why the VVD chooses not to give the lowest incomes a little more purchasing power at the expense of the highest incomes? We'll leave the middle income just as much as you suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u34	I think there is a balanced purchasing power picture for a lot of different incomes. Something is certainly being done for lower incomes, for example compensation for the care allowance. I know that the SP is for introducing a top rate of perhaps 70% or 80%. We are not in favour of that. We have also seen that the Central Planning Bureau, an independent calculator, has indicated that the most effective high rate would be around 49%. I think we're pretty close to that. I think there's a good overall picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u35	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u36	Finally. It is not true at all that we would be at a top rate of 80% or something like that. In the package we made together with GroenLinks and the Labour Party, we showed that you can increase the legal minimum wage by 2.5%, just by making other choices next year, by leaving the highest rate at 52%. The VVD does not choose that, so I conclude that the VVD makes the highest incomes even richer and forgets the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u37	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u38	That was an observation. I note that we are opting for middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u39	I always like to know what we're talking about. In this case, it's about those middle incomes every time. I think everyone has a different picture of that. What is the VVD definition of middle incomes? Then what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u40	I think I have already answered Mr Azarkan's question: from around €30,000 to €60,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u41	Pay attention, Mr. Stoffer!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u42	I would always like to repeat it for Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thanks for the tip, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u45	The VVD has once called for the so-called windfall formula to be reduced. That sounds very technical, but windfalls in the public budget will not only be used to reduce public debt but above all to reduce the burden on middle incomes. Especially in these times of prosperity, the VVD would find that logical. After all, the middle incomes paid for a long time when things were bad and now that things are going well, they should also benefit. Minister Hoekstra has also repeatedly called externally for him to stand up for the middle class and also for us not to put everything into an even lower level of public debt. It sounds strange from the mouth of a VVD man, but I totally agree with that. There are higher goals in life than paying off the sovereign debt. So I'd say, Minister, pick up this glove, let middle income profit and bring back that windfall formula. I'd like a comprehensive response from the Minister. There is another budget rule that makes it unnecessarily difficult for middle incomes, namely the budget rule on the care premium. If the increase in the premium is not too bad compared to what has been estimated, then there is now a compulsory increase in the burden. In other words, we're making less costs than planned, so there's got to be a tax increase. This is completely inimitable. I still can't explain it to people, all the more so because, on the contrary, in recent years, reduction in the burden of higher care contributions has often been absent. The Minister indicated that he would ask the Study Group on Budget Space to look at this budget rule. Of course, that is fine, but I would like to ask the Minister whether action can not be taken earlier. Because not long after Prinsjesdag came the first message from health insurance DSW that the care premium would increase more than expected. Can the Minister therefore guarantee that, if this were to become the trend and in 2020 it would prove that the care premium is disappointing compared to the estimate, we will apply the budgetary rule and therefore see additional burden relief? The Central Planning Office already showed in the Macro Economic Recognition that care is slowly demanding more and more of people's purchasing power. Without a critical look at the budgetary rules or at the growing costs of care, the concern we call the VVD is an assassin for the purchasing power of middle incomes. If I say that, I'll get to the power bill soon, too. Last year we had an unpleasant and confusing discussion about this. It was not good for support, both for climate action and for general policy. The cabinet now reduces the energy tax by an average of €100 per family for average use. That is of course good, but unfortunately there are reports in the media again that the calculation is not correct and that there may be too low consumption. How does the Minister view that? Are these calculations correct and what steps have been taken to improve the overall estimation of the energy bill and purchasing power? How will the Minister monitor how this is going to go and how will this affect the purchasing power of the middle income? And what will the Minister do if it turns out to be wrong again? Do we then find each other for additional measures, or does the Minister not think they are necessary? A third potential assassin I'd like to name is the ozb of the municipalities. We as the Empire do not have a direct influence on that, but there are signs that many municipalities are going to opt for the increase of that ozb, real estate tax. This can also have an impact on purchasing power. To what extent has an ICI increase been taken into account in the figures? And what arrangements does the Minister make with municipalities to prevent our burden relief for middle incomes from being reduced? Of course, we have agreed on a macro standard with the municipalities for the ozb, but there is a lot of criticism about that, even in the cabinet itself. How is the cabinet really going to monitor and enforce properly? Some purchasing power slurpers are in everyone's eye, such as the rising costs of care and social security. The structural strengthening of the middle class deserves more attention than just a first, albeit a nice tax cut. It deserves our constant focus and in order to be able to give tax relief in the future, we need to make financial space. We must therefore be prepared not to spend more or to do less. Let us look at the effectiveness of this expenditure. I would also like to take a look at Mr Sneller and Mr Sneller if they are willing to do so, because there is also a world to be won. The Minister has rightly appointed this in external readings on a number of occasions. The collective burden burden is still too high, even though it is finally falling again in the coming year. But the Minister does not really become concrete and does not go beyond a general analysis. What is he doing in concrete terms, what is he going to do in concrete terms, and what specific proposals does he see for himself to curb the rising costs of care and social security? Then I come to my last topic, last but not least, the earning capacity of the Dutch economy. Unlike people who say we should no longer focus on growth, the VVD believes that prosperity and well-being cannot be without growth. Growth ensures that children can go to a good school, that we can give good care to the elderly, that we can keep our country safe and that we can make our country more sustainable and better through all technological innovations. With ageing and declining labour productivity, trend growth in the Netherlands is falling to about 1.5%. Nor is it expected that this growth will be as large as it was in the last century in the coming decades. If we want to reduce the burden on middle income in the future, then we will have to fight for every percentage point of growth. The VVD does not accept less growth. We need to see how we can increase this growth again and strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands. Strengthening growth capacity can be achieved through an investment fund. That's what the Cabinet's gonna investigate. But that's not what we're here for. As far as we are concerned, the investment fund is not an end in itself but a means. That is why we need an ambitious growth agenda first to see how we are going to achieve that growth. As far as the VVD is concerned, such a fund should strengthen its earning capacity, but not become a candy pot. In the past, we have seen too many well-meaning funds fall short. The definition of investment was stretched for as long as almost every expenditure was an investment, but we must avoid that. I can't wait to see how the Minister's gonna make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mrs De Vries is talking about middle incomes and it is so important that they are now getting a little better. But in the crisis years, the middle incomes have turned in 10% of purchasing power and are now getting a penny back. Does Mrs De Vries know how much a single worker with €30,000, someone with a middle income, is making progress in 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u47	I think it was about 2.2%, 2.3% for that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u48	And in euros? People don't live by percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u49	I should figure that out. We can do a math test now, but that does not seem to me to be the most useful. I am aware of the plea of the PVV over the past few years regarding the fall in purchasing power compared to what has been estimated. Let's be honest, but we've seen that, too. That is why we have said very consciously: let us now use the 3 billion relief that we have been able to free up to that group. I hope, however, that the PVV will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u50	Our problem is that the 3 billion is peanuts. Those people have lost 10%. In the example of that person with €30,000: he has surrendered €3,000 in the crisis years. And he or she gets four tens a month now. In other words, a crumb is still a lot, you really give nothing back. We believe that these people should be given a real purchasing power impulse, because the surpluses are there. Mrs De Vries has just argued in favour of using these surpluses. How can the VVD allow the surplus to be 14 billion this year, but only 3 billion will be returned next year to improve purchasing power? Why don't you give back 14 billion? It's tax money, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u51	It is important that we do something structuralally to reduce the burden. I have also indicated very clearly, and perhaps we can agree on this, that we want to look for more relief for the future. It is not for nothing that I have advocated looking again at the windfall formula, because I think it is reasonable that you allow people to benefit from it, especially the middle income. Perhaps we can agree on a number of points in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u52	The problem is that the recession is already on the horizon. In other words, it is said again: it cannot be, because we do not have economic growth. But this cabinet, with Rutte in the lead, has said that one is going to notice it a lot. Two years ago people didn't notice, with 0.2%, last year people didn't notice, with 0.3%, this year they hardly notice. In other words, you step forward all the time. You promise everything, but by the time it has to become reality for the people and their wallet is the recession and can't do it anymore. We want you to show action now and therefore go along with the PVV to really reverse the VAT, lower the rents and eliminate your own risk. Then you really do something for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u53	In my view, we are showing action by these 3 billion additional cuts in the burden on middle incomes. I always want to look at more. I have also indicated a number of things I think there are opportunities for, but I hope to find the PVV at my side once when I... You could say that the burden should be reduced and taxes reduced. You will always be in favour of this, but that also means that we have to spend less. I hear the PVV very little about that, because you cannot do both, and spend more and the taxes down. I would like to ask for a more active role for the PVV. Then the PVV should also support us in curbing a number of cost items in these budgets and future budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u54	I thought: let me be earlier than Mr Azarkan, otherwise I might ask his question again. No, I grew up thinking that the VVD is the party of financial solidity. I just want to make sure that's still the case. I think I heard Mrs De Vries say that there are more important things than reducing public debt. Of course that is the case, but last year a response from the VVD to an interruption of the SGP was as follows: I think it is therefore important that we have a budget surplus and that we ensure that the public debt goes down. So my question is actually: is that government debt already low enough or has the VVD had a change of course in the past year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u55	I believe that public debt is still falling at the moment and that we still have a budget surplus. In that sense, I think we are still on the same lines as the SGP. I say quite honestly that we have also looked very carefully at what is needed. Where do we see people lacking financial space? That's the thing about middle income. Then I think it is extremely important to solve that, that we look there to see if we can provide relief. As far as I'm concerned, the sovereign debt really doesn't have to go to zero. I don't know if the SGP is on that line. That wouldn't be something I'm in favour of. We need to get to a manageable size of the sovereign debt. We now see that interest rates are very long-term low, but we also really see the needs of the middle-income people, and we really wanted to solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u56	Words that are worthy of consideration in their own right. However, I am just looking at it, because that public debt is still falling, but in 2021 it is going to rise again in absolute terms. How does Mrs De Vries, how does the VVD look at that future? You're saying, "Well, we'll just have to see"? Or is it really necessary in the short term to do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think it's fine that we're looking at the absolute sentence now. I would say: let's go for a lot of growth in this country, then the public debt will be much lower. I think you should have somewhere between 40% and 50% of public debt. It's still dropping down 50% for the first time. I think that's a good thing, because you don't want to be too guilty. But again, I would not be in favour of us having much larger surpluses now and saying: we can't do anything for those middle incomes. That's really not the choice we made, and I'm glad we made the choice we made. I can explain him just fine, too. In recent years, we have made a real effort to get the budget back in order, and I think we should take this step now. I hope that the SGP also thinks that we should do something at least for middle income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u58	Finally, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u59	We certainly agree on these middle incomes, especially if we take the definition just mentioned by the VVD. I'm going to think about whether or not I should adjust my image of the last 40 years of the VVD and its financial solidity. I'm gonna think about that for a few months, and we'll come back to that next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u60	Always good, thinking. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u61	Let me ask you about the fund. We don't know exactly what it's gonna be called yet. Is it Wiebes, is it Hoekstra, is it Wiekstra? We don't know exactly. I heard a few comments about that, but what about the VVD about the idea of such a fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u62	I have made it very clear that we think it is important to see how we can ensure that more growth will be achieved in the Netherlands in the years to come. In the end, that's the goal, I think. I also said that the fund is a means to this end. So I would be fine if we were to do something like that, but first we need to be clear about what we want to do and what we need to do. Start with this ambitious growth agenda and decide how we want to do it for the future. As far as I am concerned, you have to look more broadly than just investment, because I think you should look at how, for example, you can increase employment rates. It has to be a total package, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. I say to Mrs De Vries through you: be honest. It's not an attractive proposal for the VVD, is it? You are making a number of comments on this and you are giving us a number of framework conditions, with which you are actually saying: there is a very small chance that something interesting will come out there for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u64	I hope that is also the reason why I mentioned a number of conditions, namely that it is not going to be a candy pot and that we do not put money into all kinds of regular things that you have to do in the budget, or put money once into things that you should actually structurally regulate. We are really in front of this growth agenda. We think it is important that we also look to the future. I have said about this reduction in costs and also about all the costs that we still have to incur for care: then we will have to grow. I think it's important that we look at that as a country. You need investment for that too; you need public investment for that. But I will also be on another side of the story: we also need the companies hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u65	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u66	The issues that Mrs De Vries has just mentioned are, of course, issues that the government and the cabinet are constantly working on: an ambitious growth agenda and increasing employment participation. The question is: what is that instrument going to improve? Can Mrs De Vries indicate if there are any examples of public investment that we have had a lot of return on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u67	I have indicated that we want even more when it comes to growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u68	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u69	You too? That's great, so we can reach out there. I am not going to speculate about this: this project is and that project is not. I think everyone has their ideas; everyone may have their hobbies and preferences. Let's start with where we want to achieve that growth in this country. Let's start there. Then we'll see what's in it. As far as I am concerned, an investment fund can make a great contribution to this, but it must not be something you say: I am going to finance all kinds of regular things out of it. I would like to make sure that we do not all declare our own hobbies in that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u70	Then I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u71	I see a false move by Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u72	No, don't go there. He always does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u73	Oh, I can't go into sham moves. I was talking about the investment fund. I also said briefly: this also means that we will have to support our entrepreneurs and SMEs who make the money. Growth cannot only be realised as a government; you need companies and entrepreneurs hard. That's where the first dime is earned. They provide jobs of very many of those middle-incomes, which was a very large part of my input. I ran into a colleague of mine the other day, a fine statement by Winston Churchill. He said: "Some consider private companies as if they were thieving tigers you have to shoot, others see them as a milk cow. Only a small part sees them as they really are: a strong horse, pulling the whole cart." That is why I have a question for the Minister. The reduction in the tax on profits is postponed, but the corresponding increase in box 2 is not. That seems unreasonable. What is the Minister's explanation? Why hasn't the increase in box 2 for entrepreneurs also been postponed by one year? In addition, the increase in box 2 was primarily due to the so-called global balance. However, according to the Central Planning Bureau, the overall balance is not a decisive or determining factor for entrepreneurs. Can the Minister respond to that? All this does not mean that we cannot ask for anything back from those companies and entrepreneurs. My group chairman has already explained it during the General Political Reviews. If you contribute as an entrepreneur to Dutch society, we will roll out the red carpet for you. If you come without contributing and without showing reciprocity, you don't have to expect anything from us. I think that Klaas Dijkhoff's example at the General Political Reviews was very visual, when it was about Philips, Eindhoven, PSV and Brainport. Beautiful examples of how reciprocity worked in the past. I myself have been a company contact officer at the municipality of Leeuwarden for a number of years. I have seen that, in most cases, entrepreneurs are in the middle of society. That they're sponsoring the football clubs or the music corps. That they offer people who are lagging behind the labour market a chance and that, if things go badly with the company, they sometimes wait too long to take difficult measures and fire people. Let us cherish this reciprocity and let us praise and fully support those entrepreneurs. From the Minister, I ask for more than just reflections. Making growth possible also requires that we look at employment rates and labour productivity. We're probably world champions part-time. People can of course make that choice, but let's also see if the incentives are good to make more work more attractive. What plans does the Minister, and perhaps the Secretary of State, have for that? It also requires that, in addition to the knowledge infrastructure and innovation, we look at the ordinary infrastructure. It has to be in order, because a broken Botlek bridge doesn't help the economy. How is the cabinet going to ensure that we have enough money to maintain and maintain our infrastructure while at the same time investing sufficiently in new infrastructure? The VVD doesn't want cannibalism so much for maintenance and delayed maintenance costs from the Mobility Fund that it is at the expense of new necessary investments. Above all, let us do so, so that the 21st century can become a golden age again: for the economy, for the Netherlands, for the people of the Netherlands, for jobs and especially for middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u74	In fact, Mrs De Vries has only mentioned one side of the budget, namely taxation. They have to go down from the VVD, which is a well-known story. But it's also about spending, isn't it? Why did Mrs De Vries not say anything at all, at all, about the problems in education in the Netherlands? Schools close after four days. There are unauthorized teachers in the classroom. Work pressure's too high. She hasn't said anything about the number of police officers on the streets that are decreasing rather than increasing. These are also points that the VVD should make itself strong for and what it should question the cabinet on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u75	Last year we discussed in detail all the investments this cabinet makes, for example in education and research. I think that's almost $2 billion. I also mention investments in defence, but that may not be entirely the choice of the PvdA. They are important investments and it is good that we do them. What you indicate is, to a large extent, also due to the lack of teachers. That's a big concern. Not only do we see major deficits in education, but also in defence and healthcare. We can't just pull all these people out of the top hat, but we have to look at it very carefully. That is one of the reasons why I said something about the employment rate. People might just be able to work a few more hours to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u76	I share with Mrs De Vries that the shortage of teachers is a major problem, that it is really a big problem. Kids don't get the education we think they deserve. This is often the first to fall down among the most disadvantaged children. That's where the teachers' shortages are greatest. I expected the VVD to have had a story about this, perhaps not from an emancipation point of view, but in view of the earning capacity, the importance of the economy and the use of talents. I expected the VVD to say: the cabinet must do something about that. Is Mrs De Vries prepared to make proposals with me to do something about this? For the moment, all I see is targets and cuts in the education budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u77	Well, I find that a very strange picture of reality. Apparently, the Nijboer is starting to look from today. I look at what this government has done for education, and that is almost 2 billion extra investment. We've made money available to reduce the workload of teachers. I think it's a little too short to say that nothing's happening at all. I think there are really substantial amounts of money being deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u78	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u79	Compared to the government policy announced two years ago, there is simply an increase in the rate for students of 226 million to cough up higher education. They have no part in that. The gamma sciences and the medical sciences must pay for the science. The primary school teachers go on strike for the first time in decades because the workload and salary are insufficient. Then Mrs De Vries cannot say: we are all doing well and there is nothing going on in education. Apparently, the VVD's answer is that they only have to work a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u80	I said the cabinet invested heavily in education. I believe that a collective agreement has also been concluded. I believe that Minister Slob has indicated that there is about 9% increase in salary. We want to explicitly, really very consciously, free up money to reduce teachers' workload. That has also been brought forward. I think it's really too short to say nothing's happening. I think there's a lot of investment going on. Of course, we are still seeing these deficits. We have to do something with that, but I find it too easy to say that we can solve that with a bag of money at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u81	I agree with Mr Nijboer that it is striking that Mrs De Vries pays little attention to the real problems of people outside this Chamber. This is, of course, about the collective sector, the police officers, the teachers and the caregivers. But it is also about the farmers and also about the people who are looking for a house. You really didn't say anything about the nitrogen problem. We have the Financial Reviews today. There's no plan from the cabinet. There's no financial picture. The farmers don't know what they're up to and people are waiting for a house. What's your answer to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u82	I absolutely do not agree with Mr Snels that I have not spoken about the problems of the people in the country. I have just been talking about the middle incomes that have had a hard time and that is precisely what we have focused on. I think it's a caricature of my story. For example, 2 billion will be allocated to see how we can move the housing market forward. I understand the need to anticipate what we can come up with solutions for the PAS. That is a very complex problem. I welcome the fact that the cabinet is now very busy looking at the solutions to be chosen. Perhaps this will lead to financial consequences. We can, but we need to take some time to deal with this complex problem. I don't think anyone in the Lower House has a quick fix for this. I also think that we should look seriously at this problem and also find solutions that really solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u83	Can I put one specific question to Mrs De Vries? On Prinsjesdag, the cabinet proudly presented a housing fund for 1 billion. But to my great surprise, I now read in the cabinet's replies that this money may not be used for housing but for buying out farmers. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u84	I missed those answers for a while. I should then have to look at it to see what exactly is in the answers and what exactly the question has been. Maybe I can come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u85	But you agree with me on this, don't you? Lots of people are waiting for a place to live. If the cabinet ultimately makes money available to build houses, we are not going to use that money to buy out farmers. That seems to me to be a political statement which Mrs De Vries could support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u86	For example, there could be a farm in the vicinity of a nature reserve where there are also plans for housing. If you want to be able to unplug that housing, then of course you have to look at it. I am not aware of the question right now, but that is perhaps the reason why that money could be used for that. I think it is important for housing to get going, and I think people in the country are waiting for that too. However, I think that if we have to take measures, such as moving a farm because the problem of nitrogen is in the way, we should also have the courage to look at it. I hope that is what GroenLinks wants, too, in the context of building homes in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. I did get cheerful from the General Political Reviews. The debate showed that politicians always have two things to do. First of all, we must fight the battle for ideas at the sharpest of cuts, because a democratic debate is about making clear the difference, the difference in vision, in society's image, or the difference in the weighting of interests and priorities. At the same time, democratic decision-making is also about seeking agreement, knowing that democratic decision-making will never give us our full meaning. And on this second one, I was very pleased that we were able to solve concrete problems for concrete people. There will be more money and capacity for the vice police, which my colleague Kathalijne Buitenweg has worked on passionately. And there will be a very concrete solution for young people with complex problems, who will be able to be helped in special centres of expertise as of next year. On this subject, my colleague Lisa Westerveld has special commitment. It is great that we were given support for this plan in the General Political Reviews. In formal terms, it would be a good idea for the Minister of Finance to give an opinion on, in particular, the coverage of the motion in question and the amendment, so that further consideration can also be given to the relevant budgets. Mr. Chairman. The first is just as important: the struggle for ideas, making the difference clear. And here too I became cheerful and optimistic. Looks like we're at a turning point. Since the 1980s, Reagan, Thatcher, Lubbers, deregulation, privatisation and market forces have dominated government policy. They would lead to economic growth and prosperity for all. Everywhere in the Western world, the dogma of the free market is a panacea of shared prosperity now and in the future. From American CEOs that are now going to worry about stakeholders other than shareholders, to institutions like the IMF or media like the Financial Times, who are going to worry about growing inequality or global warming. Trickle down economics apparently doesn't work, or doesn't work by itself, and climate change doesn't just stop. And also in the Netherlands there is a turnaround going on. I do not need to mention the examples. We see parties like the VVD and the CDA are rethinking. I see the socio-economic playing field moving in our direction, and that makes us optimistic. A striking illustration of this is the attention given to the concept of "wide prosperity" in the Millions Note. We have often talked about this in recent years. How do we get the Monitor Brede Prosperity in the policy process? I read the Minister's hesitant comment on the possibility of setting concrete objectives on the basis of the monitor, and that it is difficult to monitor the annual progress. That is all true, but yet this Millions note is a step forward. Both in terms of economic, of course, human and financial capital, we gain insight into the development of society. I'm looking forward to the next step. For example, when it comes to topical issues, such as the shortage of teachers or the nitrogen problem, you should be able to operationalise broad welfare goals, such as equal opportunities or natural capital. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The playing field comes to the left, but the steps are careful. Sometimes I have the impression that the previous Cabinets were austere kabinets, and that this cabinet now looks after the store, and sometimes does more, see the Climate Act and the pension agreement, but still threatens to become an intermediate cabinet. I find that unsatisfactory, because this cabinet should do more now. I mention the approach to market forces in care, the role of the government as an entrepreneurial state at low interest rates and the reform of the tax system. These are all major themes that require a new vision. Steps are being taken forward, but not yet a leap forward. Large choices are moved forward to another cabinet: from a austerity cabinet through an intermediate cabinet to a cabinet of change and renewal. Do we really have to wait for the Hoekstra I cabinet, Kaag I or Clover I anyway? Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions on these issues. I would like to talk very briefly about the investment fund. When will we get more information about this? Is this going to mean something for this cabinet period or is that also for the next cabinet? Then there's a very specific question. The Minister knows that Mr Sneller and I were rapporteurs on the benefit-burden system. Does the Minister agree with me that the discussion on a public investment fund should speed up the benefit burden project? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the nitrogen problem. We know that more money is needed to comply with the nitrogen ruling and to provide more space for housing. We have to deal with farmers in a social way, while the livestock is drastically reduced. 130 km/h was a political gimmick, but means nothing in terms of broad prosperity or even time savings. Our country is too small for even more growth in air traffic. What is the cabinet going to do in concrete terms? When will the plan come and when will the financial picture come? As I said in the interrupting debate, there is a billion for housing. But do I understand that we are not going to build houses from them but are going to buy farmers from them? That's not the way it was presented on Prince's Day, is it? How's that? That's not supposed to happen, is it? That's playing ball with budgets. Mr. Chairman. There's one thing I need to get off my chest. There must be a social solution for farmers who want or have to stop. But in recent years, all these farmers have been tempted by our big banks, especially the Rabobank, to fill themselves with loans that sometimes leave them in debt. If we were talking about Italian banks, we would be talking about bad loans. Will the Minister of Finance consult De Nederlandsche Bank to see how this risk management and supervision has taken place in recent years? Would the Minister consider whether the banks themselves should write off some of these loans on their balance sheets? Not only can we place this on the farmers' plate, but also not just on the taxpayers' plate. I'd like a response. Then there's the public sector. It's not like the Cabinet isn't doing anything. In fact, this cabinet is still in the process of repairing the damage caused by previous austerity and wage moderation. But we see the frustration at the backbone of our society: our caregivers, the policemen and the teachers. Too much pressure, too few colleagues and too little appreciation. There's really more to it than the cabinet is doing right now. If the CDA is serious about a revaluation of society over the market, then it is about the revaluation of those who are at the front to shape our society. If the VVD believes it should be about the middle class, then it's about our teachers, our police officers and our caregivers. What's the extra? What perspective can we offer them in the coming years when it comes to reducing the workload and an additional step in the salary, for example for teachers? May I ask one specific question? We can see that the forecasts for wage and price adjustments in recent years have been accompanied by disappointing wage developments in the market. This will save about 12 billion euros cumulatively. I understand the system, but isn't it crazy that we have windfalls in this post because of the estimation system, when actually the approach should be that after years of zero-line we buried a little extra for the teachers, the caregivers and the police? We used to call them the trend followers. I'd like a response. Speaking of middle class. That brings me to fiscal policy. The dogma since the eighties was...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u90	I read an interview this morning with Mr Asscher, who spoke about Mr Nijboer's contribution. Mr Asscher suggested that there was some uncertainty about the position of GroenLinks, for example when it comes to the Education budget. Perhaps Mr Snels can clarify that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u91	What kind of clarity does Mr Sneller mean exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u92	Is he going to vote for it or vote against it? What exactly is his view of the Education budget when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u93	In my view, my group chairman, Jesse Klaver, made this very clear in the General Political Reviews. We have looked very seriously at the Tax Plan and the budgets. We can see that it's real steps forward. When it comes to the Tax Plan, we see that the energy bill for people is falling, that a lot of people are improving on purchasing power and that the tax on profits is not going down, but is going up a bit. Then it's crazy to threaten to vote against it. If you voted away the tax plan, it's worse than what we're getting right now. You can't do that. The same applies to the budgets. I think that is what Jesse Klaver said, and I think that if you threaten to vote against it, regardless of whether it is the Tax Plan or the budgets, you should be able to live up to your threats. If you see that there is more money in all budgets, then you are playing political games. Then you play your political games about the backs of the police officers and about the backs of teachers, because then you also vote against the extra investments that are being made. Then you vote against lowering the workload, then you vote against extra hands in the classroom and in the nursing homes, then you vote against extra police officers. I don't think you can live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u94	That's clear. Thank you. I think we're pulling on the same side of the rope. I understand Mr Snels' comments on these games very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u95	Carry on, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u96	Well, Mr President, this is what my group chairman called "scoreboard politics." I think the cabinet is doing far too little. That is what most of my speech is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u97	Could it also be of substantive policy that if you are not in favour of legislative proposals in substance, for example because you think it is a major social problem that the highest incomes benefit most and the lowest the least and that the tax on tenants increases rather than decreases, you can vote against legislative proposals for that reason? Does Mr Snels think that is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u98	I agree with Mr Nijboer: I think you should look honestly at the proposals of the cabinet. If I look at that honestly, whether it's the budgets or the Tax Plan, then I can't sell that we'd vote that way. Because that is ultimately the consequence. If we were to vote against a reduction in the energy bill, we would vote against an increase in the tax on profits for large companies, and we would vote against an additional reduction in the workload in higher education. You can't do that. Then you are working on: who wins in The Hague, who threatens, who wins politically? Ultimately, it must be about what it means to people in society. Then I think the cabinet is taking a step forward, but not making that leap forward. Mr Nijboer and I agree. This cabinet should do much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u99	I will explain in my own speech in a moment what our considerations are in the various budgets and in the Tax Plan and what the arguments are for voting in favour or against. I would just like to make the point that, on the basis of the content, you could also come to the substantive conclusion to vote against proposals, for example because the highest incomes are making the most progress, for example because too little is being done for tenants and older people, for example because the approach to the workload in education and the salary of primary school teachers is insufficient, for example because the cuts in universities and colleges are in the Education budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u100	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mr Nijboer dares me anyway. Of course, you can always make that substantive assessment, but then you should not look unilaterally at what you are against. Then you should also look at what it means if you really voted away a budget or a tax plan. Then you will also vote away many of the things we are in favour of, for which Mr Nijboer and I are in favour and where the left agrees with the right, for example the fact that we need to do more to reduce the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u102	You made that clear, Mr. Snels. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr Nijboer challenged me, Madam President. I was in fiscal policy. Speaking of the middle class, the dogma of the 1980s was "lower burdens, smaller government." In practice, we are seeing a trendal decline in top rates for the highest incomes, a trendal decline in VPB rates and low taxes on capital, but still high workload and a mad marginal pressure on the middle groups. Why does this cabinet stand up for the middle groups? Why a lower top rate, when the real marginal burden is with the middle class? Why at the same time a higher rate for the first disc? We are putting the tariff structure together, with the effect that we are only increasing the problems of marginal burden pressure for the middle class. This fundamental problem remains and is being transferred to another cabinet. If we really want to get rid of the surcharge disaster and the phasing-out routes in tax rebates and still want a fairer tax system, then a flat tax after the introduction of the surcharge system is the worst ideologically motivated idea from the VVD and the CDA. I'd like a response from the State Secretary, please, along the lines of Section 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. And why should lower macro estimated care premiums be compensated with an increase in the rate in the first disk? This affects all people with a lower income or middle income. I have referred to this unfortunate rule in budgetary policy, the closure of the burden framework, earlier. The Council of State is critical of the justification for amending the budgetary rules, but it seems that the Council is calling for an adjustment here. I'd like a response. And then there's the taxes on power. I agree that we wanted a solution for savers, because the capital efficiency tax is unfair, but the current proposal is not a fundamental choice for a tax on real capital gains and does not start until 2022. Why not a quick temporary solution for savers and for the next cabinet period a real plan for taxing wealthy people? 'Cause the power inequality is big. Of all developed countries, this is even greater only in the United States. And let's take a fundamental look at the free power build-up in box 2. Mr. Chairman. We have often talked about burden-sharing between companies and households. Here too, the cabinet has taken a small step to the left. I do not think we should reduce the tax on profits, but the ratio has become somewhat fairer. This has to do, among other things, with the reduction of the energy bill in the mix of green taxes. I'm happy about that. The cuts in the energy discount last year were not sensible. We remember the debates and the attempts to restore some of them. This is where the cabinet turned the Stevens 180 degrees. That's good. Let us look at this with delay as a profit from a democratic debate. It is also a good thing that this cabinet, together with this Secretary of State, is for the first time really working on tackling tax avoidance and basic erosion in large companies. But there is still much to do, internationally and in our own system. Recent research by the IMF shows that 40% of foreign investment worldwide is ghost capital and has nothing to do with real investment, but fiscally motivated. A very large proportion of them fly by Luxembourg and the Netherlands. One of the things we have to do is to limit the regime for liquidation losses, which means that a company like Shell will also pay a profit tax in the Netherlands. I was therefore pleased to be surprised by the fact that the Cabinet intends to take over my proposal for a reduction of the liquidation loss regime. The law had already been co-signed by the SP and the Labour Party, by Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer, but that the cabinet now takes over this law is very nice. Large companies are now also going to pay income tax in the Netherlands. I've worked on it with great pleasure. I would like to thank the staff of our Bureau of Legislation. I thank my expert advisor, Professor Jan van de Streek, who was the intellectual driver of this project. I was also very pleased with the expert and creative cooperation of the State Secretary's officials. I've been fascinated by the discussions between them and science. They do not speak in plain language, they speak in judgments of the Court of Justice. I have said it before, but it also appears in this section: the Ministry of Finance remains the best in The Hague. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to hand over the draft law to the Secretary of State through you. I wish him as much pleasure in bringing this law to the parliamentary conclusion as I have had in preparing the draft. Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the Minister of Finance presented the Millions Note, he quoted from the work of Louis Couperus, "From old people, the things that pass away." It's a story about crime, guilt and penance and the burden it brings, not only in the lives of the perpetrators, two old people, but also in the lives of the next generation. Although the mysticism, often a solid component in the books of Couperus, is less prominent in this book, it is certainly not absent. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who reads the comments on the budget of this cabinet sometimes gets the impression that a crime has been committed, as in Couperus' novel. This year the salmon standard has been released. There's no point in denying it. The cabinet has adapted its own revenue and expenditure frameworks. But how heavy do we have to weigh this crime? Each new cabinet adjusts the income and expenditure frameworks in relation to the frameworks of the previous cabinet after a government agreement has been concluded. Only, this cabinet did it in the interim. How incomprehensible is that, when we see that decisions have been taken to stop gas extraction in Groningen, when a pension and climate agreement has been concluded, when low interest rates collapse into negative interest rates and when, despite a very tight labour market, wage developments lag behind? Many of these were not there at the start of the coalition agreement. The question is then what is wise, to go blind within the existing frameworks or to report the frameworks with time? The salmon standard is an elaboration of a trendary fiscal policy. The CDA cherishes this trendary fiscal policy. It disciplines. As a result, our public finances are better off than in many other European countries, with a small budget surplus and an EMU debt below 50% of the domestic product. That's well within the 60% limit. But when we have to look at salmon as a medicine to conduct an anti-cyclical fiscal policy, we have to note that it has not yet worked this millennium. The cabinet indicated that it was a one-off derogation. As far as my group is concerned, that is the point. Despite the unique circumstances, we live in uncertain times. This means that we cannot deal with budgetary discipline without care. I have already argued in favour of a target formulation for where we want to come out with EMU debt. Sweden pursues 25%. Ireland is talking about 40%. So far, the cabinet has indicated that it does not intend to set a target for the desired level of public debt. But would it not be wise to mention a target, a target, on EMU debt? This can act as a compass. When will the Quality Insight Programme produce benefits so that the effectiveness of policies can be improved? When will this result in plans that can help an efficient and effective government? And given the uncertainty in the world, are you prepared to include a shock test in the Autumn note? We have missed this need in the Millions note. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister whether one of the reasons why the salmon standard has been temporarily released is that too little attention has been paid to the development of the burden burden. The budget has been incredibly beautiful for years, but it is mainly the result of increasing the collective burden which the middle groups in particular have to bear. Nowhere has an objective or standard been formulated as to how high we really think it is desirable. In the 1950s and 1960s we knew the side standard: the growth of government revenue was spent for a third on the discharge of government debt, for a third on government expenditure and for a third on the reduction of the burden on our residents. This implied an eye for the development of the burden. How does the Minister intend to make the development of collective burdens part of the budgetary rules? Let's talk about real crime. This weekend I was struck by the interview with Roberto Saviano, author of the bestseller Gomorra. Amsterdam is worse than Naples. And why? Because the Dutch financial system offers a certain fiscal shadow, in which crime can thrive. Letterbox companies help the Mafia to cover up the origins of their money flows. El Capone wasn't hit by the FBI. He was hit by the IRS, the U.S. IRS. Does the IRS have enough manpower to prosecute serious criminals? What is the tax authorities' ability to detect? How many criminals have been arrested this year with the help of the IRS?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u106	I did not think we would deal with this issue in this budget, but now that Mr Slootweg has mentioned it, I ask the question. That drug unit that the CDA wants so badly, is that gonna track down plantations, labs and the like, or is that drug unit, in particular, going after the financial flows?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u107	I think that what Mr Sneller is earning is again too much exclusion. What I'm trying to tell you is that I think you should do and-and-and-and. That is why I refer to the importance of the tax authorities' investigative capacity. It is not just about criminal activity, but also about how the money flow develops and how you can shut it down and contain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u108	I fully agree with Mr Slootweg that we should look at legalisation and how we are tackling this undermining, but in the end we are talking about the limited additional amount that will soon be available for undermining and the limited capacity that there is in detectives. How do we put it in? What I understand and what I get from these interviews is that we need to go after more financial flows and mopp less with the crane open at weed farms, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u109	I would appreciate it if Mr Sneller would really indicate what I am saying, Mr President. I don't think I just said that the solution is legalization. Because I really think they're criminal activities...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u110	That was a little joke, because Mr. Slootweg said "and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so." But I take it back, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u111	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u112	I think it's really about the criminal activity. But I'd like to see how you handle this most effectively. I want to involve the IRS and give it some space. It goes too far for me to say that it means that 50% should be in the detection capacity of crime, the active act, and 50% in the money flows. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our system, as we have created it, which I believe is quite efficient in the way we strengthen our economy, also has a shadowy side. That's what I'm calling attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u113	Finally, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u114	Quite rightful attention. I will come back to this when we have the debate on money laundering, which Mr Slootweg's attention is, in any case, explicit about the capacity of the Tax Administration, because that is what I think I am quoting correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u115	I was wondering whether Mr Slootweg would be all right if he asked the Tax Administration for this. Has he been following a little bit what's happened at the IRS over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u116	Certainly, and if Mr Azarkan has followed us well, he has also heard that my colleague Pieter Omtzigt has regularly asked if the Tax Office can be expanded in capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u117	But that's really easy. We can see that the Tax Administration is currently in a shortage of thousands of employees, that there are major problems with the donation and inheritance tax. One body after another comes out of the closet. With the surcharges it is also crying with the hat on. There are major problems, already under the former Secretary of State, which the current Secretary of State is trying to solve, but that is not easy, as he himself stated in the last AO. Are we gonna put any more pressure there? Are we going to ask for more objectives and more activities and say that more people need to be attracted? It doesn't work like that, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u118	On the contrary, I am very reluctant when it comes to new systems and new changes. The point here is that we have enough inspectors and sufficient investigative capacity. This is not about a system change so that the Tax Administration can also contribute to the prosecution of criminals. I'm getting signals that sometimes it's very difficult. So this is something other than a change of the gift and inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u119	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u120	I really think that we should also be realistic from a political point of view in what we can ask. I hear an ambitious plan. It is another balloon that needs to be filled with ideas about how we are also tackling the serious crime from the tax, and that we need to do better; you come up with a fine example of Al Capone, who was caught by a tax inspector. But what does that look like in concrete terms? How are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u121	I think we've indicated what we want when it comes to that drug unit. We think it is important that this is about the capacity to detect the criminal act. In addition, I expect there will be room to tackle the money flow that feeds the criminals. So it is not something of extra tasks at all. No, actually, what I'm saying is that there's got to be extra capacity. This concerns a completely different demand and a completely different supply. Mr. Chairman. The main characters in "From Old People" live from the interest of money saved. If Couperus had written in his time that these elderly people would not receive interest but would have to pay interest on that money saved, he would probably be thrown away as a fantasy. It's just like it's hard to explain to your kids that it's wise to put money aside when you get less out of it. Let us be clear: the CDA does not want us to have the situation in the Netherlands that people have to pay money to banks because they are saving. The minister was going to talk to the banks. What is the Minister's view of banning, as in Belgium, banks charging negative interest towards their savers? These old people had to live on saved money, because pension funds were hardly there at the time. When the pension funds came up in the Netherlands, they often invested in real estate. We have the idea that pension funds are doing this less and less and that they are also investing relatively little in the Netherlands, whereas in the 1960s and 1970s they have contributed significantly to solving the housing crisis. We now see again a huge construction project, homes for starters but also senior homes and residential care locations for middle groups. Many seniors would like to move, but there are not enough suitable homes for them. What contribution can pension funds make by investing in it? Is it true that Dutch pension funds invest relatively little in the Netherlands and is it also true that this is partly due to the risk spreading instructions of De Nederlandsche Bank? The CDA Group is convinced that when senior citizens have more options to choose homes equipped with their life stages, this is good news for the next generation because more family homes will become available. Mr. Chairman. In the novel the characters are burdened and it seems as if no one can alleviate them. Similarly, the Dutch people feel that solving the 2008 crisis has been accompanied by a substantial increase in the burden. The fact that the cabinet has therefore come up with a reduction in charges is sensible. We are pleased that the two-disk system is already getting a place by 2020. The burden on the middle groups is reduced. A first step in simplifying the tax and surcharge system. And that really needs to be dealt with. Even after this action, our system of tax rebates and surcharges leads to incomprehensible outcomes. Parts of the middle groups have to do with a marginal pressure of 70%. That means that if you go to work an hour more, you can give up 70% of that to the Tax Office and you can only keep 30%. Isn't it strange that we have a part-time culture in the Netherlands? Why would you go to work that fourth or fifth day if you barely make any money out of it? In families that depend on the income of one person, there are completely idiotic conditions. For example, as a earner, it is better to have a gross wage of €27,000, because you have a net income of more than a gross wage of €33,000. Even North Korea doesn't know that. 57% of the population depends on a supplement. A supplement is once intended to support low-income people, whether they were living or caring. Although the income-dependent contribution to the Health Insurance Act actually functions as a tax, the method of taxation is again different from that of the payroll tax or the social insurance contributions. We are well aware that cleaning up our system has a huge impact, but I think it really has to be different. Is the Cabinet prepared to examine the re-evaluation of existing collective arrangements, in the light of the desire to achieve a more balanced marginal net tax, premium and surcharge burden? Is the Minister prepared to look at the method of levying the care premium in relation to that of the payroll tax? I would also like to ask the Minister whether it is true that the negative interest rate has led the agency to deposit 8 billion in cash management with foreign banks and to pay interest on it. We would like to have broken down how much money is involved and where and at what point the agency is stealing money from foreign banks. What was the cash position per bank on 1 July 2019 and what is the policy regarding the management of temporary cash surpluses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u122	I have a question about income policy. It is well known that the CDA strongly supports the flat tax. We have looked at the effects and found that tenants, beneficiaries and, above all, elderly people, according to the Nibud's accounts, are actually making very little progress, sometimes only €6 per month, while the highest incomes are making the most progress. I believe that the CDA also has a thing for the elderly. Mr Omtzigt is always in the front line of blaming the ECB in the pension discussions. So why hasn't the CDA taken a better look at that in this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u123	It has been a long-standing wish for us to achieve simplification of the tax system. In doing so, we have chosen what we call the social flat tax. Although the top rate is less than 50%, which we do not think is so crazy, the social aspect is that if someone is going to earn a euro more, he may just get a little more of it, while at the same time we are trying to reduce the pumping around of money by subtracting everything at the lower rate of tax. I had an exchange of views with Mr Stoffer on this last year. Then you have to make your choice when you do that. The great thing about this moment is that we have now been able to put more money into reducing the burden on all income groups, including those with benefits and also on the elderly, and at the same time we have also taken the step towards simplification. That is the balance we are making at the moment. We can do this too, which will reduce the burden on people with lower incomes, and at the same time we can work on simplification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u124	What I do not understand so well is that the people who have the hardest income are not the people who earn a ton of money. People who earn a ton get €200 in the month, partly because the top rate goes down like this, while people with an income of €20,000 get only €20 in the month. This is partly due to the increase in the first rate. This first rate will be higher for those with the lowest incomes, those with small pensions and those with part-time jobs. Then I just don't get it that well from the CDA, from the principle of social justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u125	In my view, Mr Nijboer forgets to mention that the general tax rebate is also increasing. Part of the increase in that first rate is, of course, taken up, because it does indeed have an effect by increasing the general tax rebate. For us the reason was that we wanted this to be a simpler system at least in terms of tariffs, even when the government agreement was concluded. We considered this an important first step, also because we see that the conversion of our system is difficult and difficult. In my opinion, Mr Nijboer has already had to study a great deal of how this can be done in a good way in the previous period. We are also trying to make income groups benefit from it. In any case, I am pleased that we have succeeded, even at the moment, in actually reducing the burden on the people with the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u126	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u127	Whether it gets easier... Yes, the rates are becoming simpler, but there is a lot going on in the area of tax rebates. I'll give that to Mr Slootweg. But at the bottom of the line, does he agree with me that people with an income of €20,000 are on average moving, median, a little roughly average, up to €20 in the month, and people with a ton of €200 in the month? That's the effect of everything, isn't it? And that's not fair anymore, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u128	Justice is always about how good a system is to explain. That system is tricky, but it has been even more difficult in the past period. But we are just really happy that it is now possible to reduce the burden, including for the people with a small grant. We should not just look at the static element, because it is of course also the intention that we should just look at the dynamic element. I've asked a lot of questions about that, too. That is why I asked: how does that work with the marginal rate? Isn't that supposed to reduce the dynamics of making more money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u129	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. The flat tax was the ideological toy of the CDA. It was supposed to be there. This means that the marginal rate and the top rate, the rate for the highest incomes, are going down. I really don't understand why the CDA is for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u130	Then I'll try to explain it one more time and now shorter. For us, it is very important that the system is simpler. We believe that this will make it more explanatory and will also provide a better basis for support. This is simply a consequence of that. On top of that: it is not just that the rate is reduced, it is also that the burden of what you can get through deductions is reduced, that it becomes a simpler system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u131	With all the good will, why is it less complicated to explain to people that the top rate is 49% and a little instead of 52%? What's the difference? Isn't that as good as explaining it? If you have a high income, you pay a little more than tax. You put half a billion euros in that. With that half billion euros, you could have done something for that middle class. That's a political choice. And that has nothing to do with a reform of the tax system, which has nothing to do with simplification. That's a political choice I don't understand from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u132	I think that Mr Snels really should look at the overall picture. I think he has just explained this in his own contribution. You can't say this cabinet doesn't do anything for the middle groups. And then Mr Snels might say on behalf of GroenLinks: we would have put even more money into that. But if you look at the plans in the counter-budget, I do see an increase in the burden for some of the middle groups at the time when people are going to earn twice as much as they are going to earn a little more. I would like to borrow the definition of Mrs De Vries. There's an increase in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u133	Finally and very briefly, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u134	I just need to correct this. What we do in the counter-budget together with the SP and the Labour Party is precisely to lower the rate of the first disc. Compared to a reduction in a top rate, you do increase the first disk rate for all those low-income and middle-income people. We'll lower that. And that is a political choice: lower rates for the lower half of the Netherlands and higher rates for the upper half of the Netherlands. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u135	Just as I said to Mr Nijboer, you only explain that one element every time. Then it is the increase in the first disc rate and does not indicate that the general tax rebate will also be increased. He'll catch that. Mr. Chairman. Couperus takes the time in his novel to describe the consequences of the burden on the conscience of the leading players in their children's lives. Although I do not want to see the relationship between the Empire and the municipalities as much as the relationship between parents and their children, I try to think a little bit more about that. The under-exhaustment of the Empire has effects for municipalities and provinces. Given the tensions on the labour market and the statements about the PAS, it will remain a tour of the force to carry out the desired investments in infrastructure and housing. Does the step-on-step approach fit when we see that municipalities have so many obligations with regard to the Participation Act, the Wmo and youth care? It is good that the Millions Note indicated that the method of indexing municipalities would still be appropriate. It is even better for the Segers motion to see if we can achieve more stable financial relations. However, in the short term the problems of the municipality are very high. Wherever possible, it is necessary to avoid creating an image that, although the Empire reduces the burden on its inhabitants, municipalities are partly eliminating this by having to increase the ICI considerably. Municipals are asking for air. Can municipalities be supported to gain more control over their expenditure? What is the Minister's view of the Council of State's opinion that the examination of more stabilising relationships should also look at increasing the local tax area? And what does the negative interest rate for provinces that are obliged to hold money with the Empire through treasury banking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u136	How much longer do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u137	I've got a page and a half left, but I'm getting back to a new part. Perhaps Mr Nijboer does not feel challenged, but I think he has at least a reason to taste my kidneys a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u138	Is that right, Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr Slootweg could not have felt it better. The municipalities are hanging on the ropes at the moment. The treasury flows over here and the municipalities all have to cut back. Swimming pools are also closed in small municipalities, village houses may have to close and cultural facilities are locked. The question to the CDA is the following. They want to adjust the system. I support that. I think it's a good thing they want to do something about it in the future. Do they also want to solve the problems of municipalities, especially residents and their facilities? Are there any business to be done about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u140	I think it is particularly important to know what these problems are because I see so many differences between municipalities. It would be easy if it only played in small or only in large municipalities. The differences are great. I can see that the differences are, in any case, considerable in the area of youth care. That's why I'm asking my question. How do these differences come about? How can it be that five to six times as many people, young people and children, need support in dyslexia than in another municipality? What's going on out there? I would like to see what can be done there, because if they cannot control expenditure, I think that the difficult decisions Mr Nijboer is going to make, now or in the future, will become an automatic result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u141	I think this is a very valid point. That also needs to be looked at carefully. Some municipalities have real budgetary problems because of the problems there. But the problems are now common to all Dutch municipalities. There is no municipality in the Netherlands that is not currently preparing austerity proposals on municipal provisions for the city council. The cause of this is very clear. That is because the cabinet has said that it will spend billions more and that it will not be able to do so. This year, 3.3 billion less is spent, and 2.3 billion less next year. Those municipalities must cough up this immediately in the current financial year. That's the problem. In my opinion, there was broad consensus in the General Reviews that this should not be the case anymore, but these municipalities are now concerned with it. I would like to ask Mr Slootweg: for the sake of these facilities, libraries, cultural facilities, museums, sports subscriptions, I would like to conclude by saying something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u142	In my view, Mr Nijboer is very clear about the problem here. What caused that? At least I don't want to see this as a solution. Why aren't these funds being spent by the Empire? That is because we are looking very carefully at whether these expenditures are being done properly. That is why we have asked in an earlier instance to take a closer look at this step-on-step approach. Only, I think this is one of "it takes two to tango." I also hope that the Association of Dutch Municipalities will also see how we can solve this. Because I think this should be done in common.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u143	I think this is a fair call for the short term. My question is about the longer term. For Mr Slootweg explicitly asks the Secretary of State to look also at a larger local tax area. Is he asking with warm feelings for that larger local tax area, or what exactly is his intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u144	I think it is important because I see a number of points in this regard. Let me first raise the objections that I can also feel very well. When you come to such a situation and there are municipalities that are able to raise less money locally, I can imagine very well that they have the least chance of getting good policies where the problems are greatest. I think that is a serious objection, and I think that this really needs to be looked at. On the other hand, I can also see that municipalities may also have more control when they have a more local tax area. So am I already very ideologically on one side or on the other? No, but it is, of course, striking that some countries around us have a larger local tax area and can also respond a little more to the wishes of their citizens, while we in the Netherlands are very soon inclined, also from this Chamber, to come up with rules and proposals that affect the freedom of local authorities. So I really don't know if I'm up for it after all. That also depends on the design, but the Council of State does not advise this for nothing. Then I find it interesting to include this, particularly in the other points I have asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u145	What Mr Slootweg is saying is quite correct. Internationally, the Netherlands has a very small local tax area. So I am simply taking Mr Slootweg's open attitude as a profit on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u146	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u147	I saw Mr Stoffer coming for a while, so I thought that might also be about this. But we are going to the mystical part at Couperus, perhaps also for Mr Stoffer very well. Because when we talk about Couperus, we also talk about mysticism. Goenagoena or the silent force. The most mystical part of the Millions note is the investment fund for the future earning capital of the Netherlands. 'Cause this fund's gonna be there and what's gonna look like? There are reasons to seriously investigate this idea. The level of public investment has been falling for years. For example, since the 1970s public investment has fallen from 6% to 3% of gross domestic product. Investing too little is bad news for the next generation. I therefore repeat my earlier call to make clear in the budgets which of the public expenditures are investment, consumption, transfer or capital expenditure. An investment fund is not a guarantee that more investments are being made. The lessons of the FES Fund for Economic Structure Strengthening are still clearly in our minds. What was meant as a fund to participate in new investments became a fund that replaced existing investment expenditure from the departments of commerce. Replace instead of refreshing. Can the Minister explain whether, in addition to strengthening the economy, the fund is intended to contribute to a less pro-cyclical fiscal policy? And how does this fund relate to European budgetary rules? In addition to housing demand, the climate issue is also intense in the next generation. To work towards a cleaner world can help financial markets. We welcome the introduction of green bonds, but more is needed. We know that the European Central Bank is enthusiastically buying debt from polluting industries in its buy-in programme. The ECB's policy is therefore not only affecting the saver, but also requires governments to take more far-reaching measures to meet the climate objectives as the ECB supports the polluting industry. It's incomprehensible from a supervisor. The Minister writes that the Dutch supervisors, such as the Dutch Financial Markets Authority and DNB, should pay even more attention to climate-related risks in their supervision and also achieve this at European level. But does the AFM have sufficient capacity to expand the task package with the monitoring of climate-related risks? I am asking this also in view of the revision of the NFR Directive on non-financial reporting by the EU, the enforcement of which is also the responsibility of the AFM. This Millions note is a turning point for the cabinet, a renewed impetus. But there is still a lot of work to be done, with regard to the budgetary rules, the understanding of the quality, efficiency of the tax, premium and supplement system, financial relations with the local government, but also with regard to the position of middle groups, families with children and older people. These things have not yet passed, but deserve the proper attention of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr. Chairman. I'm from Amsterdam, you too. There you really have workers' palaces, such as The Ship in the Van der Pekbuurt, beautifully refurbished after actions of the local SP department, or from my neighborhood New-West, workers' neighborhoods designed by Van Eesteren. I had expected a little more from the CDA on this issue, which has recently been talking about housing. I would like to ask Mr Slootweg a specific question on this: does he agree with me that housing is not only about affordable living, but also about the quality of living and that the workers' palaces of that time are also school examples for now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u149	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u150	Is Mr Slootweg prepared to look with me at what the cabinet can still do on this point? The cabinet had made more money available for the isolation and sustainability of social housing. One in six Dutch people currently lives in a house with defects, with mold, with isolation problems. After six months, however, that game has already been stopped until 2022. If Mr Slootweg is so determined to answer 'yes' to this, is he prepared to look with me to see how we can ask the Cabinet to release more money for the improvement of social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u151	It is always very interesting when it is indicated that the solution lies only in more money from the Empire. I think it is important: who should take responsibility for this? That may indeed be the cabinet, but it may also be the housing corporations. It can also be the landlords when it comes to middle homes. The trail of "when it comes to the quality of housing, I hand in the bill to the Empire" is not the track I follow directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u152	This is a discount on the landlord's tax. The cabinet recognised that it is important that corporations working on the improvement of social housing can receive a discount. That's good, but there's just not enough money available for it. If we both think this is so important, we can ask the cabinet to make more money available for it, knowing that there is such a large surplus last year, this year and next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u153	Here's the question of surplus. The surplus of this cabinet currently means that the money cannot be spent, that the intentions cannot be realised because of lack of staff or whatever. So, against all these large surpluses, there will later be commitments to achieve those fine quality homes that Mr Alkaya and I both want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. I thought: let me wait until the end of Mr Slootweg's speech, but at the beginning of his speech I thought I heard that he gave the cabinet a stand for releasing the Salmon norm. He also said that this year we, as CDA, will be hitting the heart by hand. Suppose the cabinet lets go of the salmon standard next. What's the CDA gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u155	It is important for Mr Stoffer to know this: I am concerned about disciplined budgetary policy. That's my priority. The salmon standard has been a very effective instrument for this. At the time when the cabinet indicated that it was once there were good reasons for that, stop gas extraction, the pension and the climate agreement......................................................................................................................................................... But I would not want to let go of budgetary discipline. I also think, according to what I understand, that this cabinet still considers the salmon standard to be a very effective instrument for this. I'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr Slootweg assumes that next year the salmon standard will simply be applied again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u157	I think Mr Stoffer should listen carefully. I can't see what else this cabinet is going to encounter and reach between now and 12 months, but at the moment when we put in the thermometer, with the current situation, I would find it very strange that the salmon standard is being adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u158	My comment is not about the salmon standard. I think salmon should swim and then we'll look which way. What matters to me is the previous point, about housing. Mr Slootweg concludes that money must then be spent which cannot actually be spent. I'd like to point out something else to him. You have seen a letter from Aedes showing that the government's foreseeable income from the landlord's tax and ATAD is much higher than estimated. Shouldn't we use that money correctly for these kinds of elements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u159	I think we voted this week on a motion asking for an inquiry into it. At the time when we are going to investigate something, am I not going to say right away that the outcome of the investigation must be this or that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u160	I'm talking about the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u161	We have asked for an inquiry into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u162	A quick question. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr President, I almost always do. Ten times 100 million will be made available to reduce the landlord's tax. Is it possible to talk to the CDA about bringing that forward, for example, to do it in four times 250 million? This is being advocated, and this is also allowed under the budgetary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u164	What I find very difficult in this is that I think you should also show a bit of continuity in the sector when it comes to this. I understand that shift, but I should know very well what that means. Because the moment you do something, the problem may be that after that we actually have too little for those quality and sustainable homes, which we all want. So I really want to know what the long-term effects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u165	The housing corporations are arguing for this themselves. Those are the people who have to do it. They say they can build more affordable rental houses. The CDA has really asked a lot of attention for that, even in the General Reviews. I like housing, too. I therefore hope that Mr Slootweg will think about this and move in today and tomorrow. That would really help her build more social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u166	I don't want the image here of a man of rock who doesn't move at all. I'd be very sorry if that happened. Here's what I'd like to say. The moment you do this, I can imagine that people are thinking: we're all getting money now. That is very nice and that of course solves something. But if we've given it once and the expectation after that is that we'll do it again at the same level in the next few years, that'll make me a little bit cautious. Because if the money is spent now, it's really hard to get used to it after that, that you don't get anything the following year. That is why I may not associate it with the point of movement in that sense, but I am very careful. What are the consequences for the long-term objectives that we have, partly in view of the fact that it is currently also difficult for housing corporations to have sufficient staff to carry out all these wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u167	I do think that Mr Slootweg and I agree that, whether you do it for four or ten years, it is both temporary and that there is a difference between these two elections, with the voter still expressing his opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u168	Sure, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u169	I do not know whether Mr Slootweg has finished his speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u170	Yes, I should have said "thank you, Mr President." That was the last sentence and I hadn't said it. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u171	You didn't get that chance either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u172	What strikes me then is that Mr Slootweg did not mention pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u173	But he's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yes, that is why I can now conclude that he did not mention pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mr President, would you like me to repeat what I said about pensioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u176	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u177	That is not necessary for the Acts either. On the contrary, I've gone into it a lot. From the novel that you have undoubtedly read, because you are a very well-read man by heart, Mr. Van Dijck, from old people, the things that pass by, I have devoted a passage to it. Those old people depended on savings and there were no pension funds at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u178	Yes, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u179	We are on the verge of 2 million elderly people, pensioners, being cut short. Those are the facts. What strikes me at the CDA is that they just ignore it. They'll talk about the middle group and you name it. But the fact that 2 million people will be cut down next year doesn't help you. You're not gonna stand up for that. Even Mrs Wortmann, Mr Wellink, yes everyone is shouting from the rooftops that something must be done for these pensioners and that it is wrong to cut them down. But I don't hear about it at all. You're coming up with some old quotes. But you're responsible for cutting these pensions. You have a hand in that. You short the pensions for all those old people who used to be your voters. You're gonna drop it like hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u180	Let me begin by saying that I am very sorry that Mr Van Dijck is putting Mr Couperus down as an old bookwriter. That's too bad, because I think it's a gem of our literature. But let me come back to the question of whether nothing is being done. We have had the debate here, with the Gijs van Dijk and others motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I think that's what the Cabinet is going to do. I myself tabled a motion to look again at our pension system. It also requires something from young people to participate in it, guaranteeing solidarity between young and old. Does that still fit? That motion has also been adopted. I do not quite know the voting ratio, but I believe that the PVV voted in favour of both motions. I think you're short-handed. In doing so, you also sent the Minister on a mission. I don't think you're doing justice to our commitment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u181	Motions are of no use to these older people. The water is all the way to their lips.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u182	Then why do you vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u183	Of course, I'd do anything for the elderly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u184	You just said yourself that these motions are of no use to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u185	...to make sure things get better. You are asking for an investigation, but you are not in favour, for example, of changing the accounting rules. Even Mrs Wortmann and Mr Wellink are calling for this. In other words, you do nothing for the elderly. You've been on the buttons for two years now. The elderly have been stripped of their clothes during the crisis of recent years. They've turned in up to 13%. I have mentioned examples in my text. You say there's a motion to see if we can do anything for the elderly. You could have done something about the purchasing power of the elderly by reducing the burden on the elderly. You're coming with 1%. You give them €6 per month. What good is that gonna do them? With that discount, it evaporates again. In other words, you do nothing for the elderly. You don't pay any attention to the elderly. It's the middle incomes you're facing a little bit. As far as we are concerned, that is far too little. You should have done much more for the elderly. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u186	I'm just trying to see if this is a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u187	With Mr Tony van Dijck you never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u188	I'd like to make it right that we haven't done anything about the position of the elderly. In my opinion, the tax plan also benefits the elderly. The moment the PVV votes against the Tax Plan, they also lose out on older people. I'd be sorry to hear that. I think Mr Van Dijck is wronging what we can do here in the Chamber. If motions do not represent anything at all, do not submit them. I believe that a very clear mission has been set out for the Minister: go talk and see how we can avoid unnecessary pension reductions. Finally, there is a real point. It is also very important to see how the pension system works in the longer term. How's that going? Can young and old both have faith in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u189	A brief question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u190	Mr President, a brief question. I have heard Mr Slootweg say that it was a special year and that for that reason budgetary discipline has been thrown overboard. The Council of State is critical of that. Economists are also critical of this. A lot of pensioners are watching now, too. They had a reduction from 6% to 8% just after the crisis. In recent years, they've gained 0%. The prospect now is that there may be more cuts. The purchasing power of pensioners has fallen by about 15%. People are watching now and hearing the CDA say that there has been a very special time. I'm gonna take a moment to reason from the position of the pensioners. For seven years, nothing has been done about their purchasing power. Every year it's dropped. Is that a reason to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u191	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u192	... that we of those 11.5 billion.......................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u193	The question must be really short and so must the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u194	I understand you think my answer is a bit too long. It is also very important for pensioners to have a strong economy. If things are done that keep our economy strong, it will help pensioners too. That's one. Secondly, we have in the Gijs van Dijk and others motion. It is very clear that the Minister must look at the possibilities he has to avoid unnecessarily shortening pensions. I think that's really something very important. Thirdly, the Tax Plan also reduces the burden on people with pensions. They're getting resources, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u195	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u196	Finally. What does Mr Slootweg think about the increase in public debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u197	The public debt is not rising this year, but it is falling. In 2021, there will be a point where we have to look critically at it. In part, we believe that this can be solved if we can strengthen the growth capacity of our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you. You said you'd lock up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Nice to meet you. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u201	Thank you, Mr President. It is the first General Financial Reviews that I take part in and I must admit that I find the time frame in which I do that quite special. It's like our country's been heading in a certain direction for years. A majority of all parties, except a couple of socialists, also agreed with that direction. The wind and the current went in the same direction, so it was pretty easy to move with. Until we started getting a lot of signals that, if we were to continue in the same direction, sooner or later we would end up in a rocky and jet black water like Brazil, the United States and the United Kingdom, for example. There are signals about massive forest fires because the climate is changing rapidly, signals about a total disgust of the political system, because it hasn't listened to the people for years, and signals about isolationism and aversion to international cooperation because globalisation led by neoliberals has only increased inequality and uncertainty. So we seem to have stopped sailing for a while. We have been lying in the wind for a while and are now wondering what the future course should be for our country. Two weeks ago, during the General Political Reviews, many parties said that they no longer want to go in the neoliberal direction. I'm happy about that. For years, the SP has resisted this unholy course for our country, a course leading on the one hand to inequality and slow destruction of our planet, and on the other hand to division, mistrust and xenophobia in society. We therefore warmly welcome this turning away from the neoliberal course, this progressive understanding of many parties. But what now is the question. I myself was born a few years before the fall of the Soviet Union and I actually grew up in years when fundamental reflection on society and the economy has stood still. After all, capitalism had won and a discussion about the economic course of the Netherlands was no longer necessary. But now that we stand still, wander around and wonder what the future course of our country must be, I would like to ask this Chamber to be sincere and unbiased about the challenges that await us, to leave the dogmas, the gray dogmas over the so-called virtues of the free market behind us for a moment, and to ask ourselves whether our economic system is still adequate. The Members who will do so sincerely will realise that neoliberal capitalism is no longer in line with the expectations we now have and no longer in line with these times. That capitalism, which was declared a winner after the fall of the Soviet Union and led us for years as a sort of compass in this direction, that capitalism not only has many problems, but that capitalism is the problem. The interests of shareholders, at Shell, at ING, the fossil industry or at the banks, are very often at odds with the interests of ordinary people. People want to breathe clean air and an undamaged nature now and in the future, but shareholders only want short-term profits. So companies like Shell continue to spend only 10% of their research budget on sustainable solutions. They are thus ahead of this polluting sector. People want their wages to rise if we all become more productive and therefore the economy is growing, but shareholders only want short-term profits, so dividend payments to shareholders have been running faster than wages for decades. Since the start of Rutte I, that difference has been 10 billion. People want their savings to be safe and not invested by banks in weapons, which are then used in the permanent war in the Middle East, but shareholders only want short-term profits. It does not stop investing in weapons, because banks facilitate money laundering and they even facilitate terrorist financing. I can go on like this for a while. For years we have been living in a system in which only one interest, namely that of shareholders, dominates decision-making within companies. That fact has been undisputed for years. All the measures we are taking here, whether climate or whatever, we are working around that. In fact, it should not surprise anyone in this Chamber that, although this system has generated a great deal of prosperity, it has not automatically led to a fair, safe and clean society. The parties who, like the SP, still want a fair, clean and safe society must also dare to recognise that the neoliberal capitalist compass that led us to this point has done its job, but is no longer adequate and must therefore be replaced by a new and better compass. Aware that many parties now seem to be looking for a new direction, I am here today as a democratic socialist and I would like to propose a new compass for our country. Mr. Chairman. It's a compass. It's a compass. It's a compass. It's a compass. It's a Of course, it doesn't provide one ready-to-use answer for all the problems of the Netherlands. The previous capitalist compass didn't either. Yet many parties in this Chamber, from left to right, have used that compass in recent years, which has led, among other things, to antisocial projects, such as the student debt system. Fortunately, there is now a majority to abolish it, but tens of thousands of young people have been used as guinea pigs in this neoliberal experiment. They've started their lives with huge debts. Every Member of Parliament who is now truly sincere will realise that this has been a great mistake and will regard it as a debt of honour to compensate these young people for their damage. In particular to the parties who supported the debt system at the time, I say that the compass of democratic socialism will enable us to change course and, unlike that system, to launch projects that will benefit ordinary Dutch people and not be caught by them. That is what we have to do. We shouldn't be arguing with each other. We like to pick up that glove as a Socialist Party, for example when it comes to wages. Wage growth has been lagging behind dividend payments for years, while corporate profits break record after record. For 2019, the estimated increase in collective bargaining wages in last year's Millions Note was 2.9%. In the spring note, it was 2.7% and now, in this millions note, we see that 2.5% is taken into account. Each time the rise in wages is disappointing again. That's no exception this year. The millions of people in the workplace, who run our economy, do not benefit from the result of their hard work. If it's up to us, they're entitled to a fair share of the profits they make. Many managers already get shares in the company for which they work and thus already benefit if that company makes a profit. Why should cleaners, postmen and customer service workers, who are just as important to a company, not have that right? That is why we will come up with an initiative law to make profit sharing mandatory for companies in the Netherlands with more than 100 employees and a balance sheet size of 16 million or more. In any case, we are counting on the support of those parties who have said goodbye to neoliberalism. This is your first chance to turn your fine words into action. Together, we can move from shareholder control to democratic companies in the future. We can go from co-workers to co-owners of the result of hard work, and from injustice to the emancipation of labor. In addition to our initiative to reform the economy, such as profit sharing, the central shareholders' register, which we propose together with the Labour Party, or a 100% safe bank account with a public bank, we must of course also look at next year's plans and the government's plans. In order to show that a just Netherlands does not cost any more money at all, together with GroenLinks and the Labour Party, we have prepared and passed on a joint alternative package for 2020 by the Central Planning Bureau. We presented a true purchasing power package two weeks ago. I will not go through all the measures it contains, but I would like to give an example of some of them. The VAT rate would go down, so that people's messages would be cheaper again. The income tax for low-income people would not be increased. That's what it was all about in an interrupting debate. The statutory minimum wage would be increased, coupled with the AOW benefits and welfare benefits. Salaries in the public sector, including teachers, would rise and the antisocial own risk would be halved, as a first step towards complete abolition. All this in 2020 without spending a penny extra, because we, the left-wing parties, would ask for a fair contribution from larger companies. During the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister could not explain why he did not simply choose to take over our fair alternatives but instead chooses to lower the income tax for the most wealthy, not to invest in teachers and in our education but to further reduce the tax on profits for larger companies in 2021. The Prime Minister could not explain why it would be a good idea for the most wealthy to advance thousands of euros next year and pensioners, often the people in society who are already not wide, only a few hundred euros a year, if they are lucky. Can the Minister of Finance explain why the cabinet once again opts for the most rich and the multinationals and not for ordinary people? The VVD group just couldn't do it either. There seems to be no justification other than "that's our people." Why does the government not simply take over the alternatives that we have presented together with GroenLinks and the Labour Party? Why does the government ensure that the purchasing power of the most wealthy will increase by 2020? In our package there was also a proposal to give the housing corporations a discount on the landlord's tax in the case of construction renovation or reduction of the rents. We would spend 500 million a year on this, on top of what the cabinet does. That's what's needed. A lot of people can't find an affordable apartment these days and if they find one, there's a lot of things wrong with it. One in six Dutch lives in a house with large defects, such as poor insulation, mold, leaking roofs, trekking, damp walls and so on. Housing corporations really need to get started to deal with this, but the discount on the landlord's tax they get for that has been stopped since July 2022. The SP tabled an amendment to the Spring Paper to make more money available for this purpose, which the Minister advised against, and that amendment was unfortunately rejected. Now it appears that there is a surplus of perhaps 14 billion this year. There are billions left on the shelf. Now that the CDA is again talking about housing instead of housing market, which they have talked about for years, I ask what this CDA Minister of Finance is saying to those 3 million Dutch people who live in a house with mold or other defects. Does he know someone who lives in such a flawed house? Has he ever met anyone whose child has respiratory problems or lung problems due to mold in the house? In his own privileged situation as a dry-eyed treasurer, could he then claim that there really was no money to improve their situation? I wonder if the Minister could do that. My party continues to fight for those people and is working on another amendment to improve their situation. In any case, I am counting on the support of the CDA Group if their words on housing are sincere and sincere. There's also a CDA minister here who clearly wants to run his party, a big party. So he also seems to have ambitions to become Prime Minister, as we have often seen in the media. Here is also a minister who recently realized that many Dutch people are only one broken washing machine away from financial problems. When does he realize that, I wonder. Here again I wonder if he has no one in his neighbourhood, no one in his social circle who belongs to those 1 million Dutch living in poverty. How often did he come into the neighborhoods of the Netherlands before he became a minister? How many times does he get there? Why was he so surprised by the troubles that are going on there? Did he listen when I pointed out to him on Accountability Day that despite economic growth, the number of food banks has continued to grow in recent years? In a rich country like the Netherlands, that's just crooked. The fact that billions remain on the shelf under the leadership of this minister confirms the wrong direction that this minister intends to continue to take with the Netherlands. The Netherlands does not need another Prime Minister who speaks straight, which is crooked and wants to pursue the neoliberal course of recent years. The Netherlands needs a prime minister who knows what is wrong in society, in the neighbourhoods of the Netherlands, and who can lead our country towards a fairer and more social direction. In history, the Netherlands has been at the forefront of innovations in the economic system. We came up with the shares, options, the stock exchange, the Amsterdam Exchange Bank and laid the foundation for contemporary capitalism. This has brought us a lot of prosperity, but continuing in the same direction will lead to a deterioration of our living conditions. We've reached the limits of the system. Bad circumstances lead to unhappy people. The fundamental realization that circumstances make people is why I am a socialist. That is the realization that, depending on the circumstances, man may be a wolf for his fellow man, homo homini lupus, but that the same man may in other circumstances also be a god for his fellow man, homo homini deus. That awareness should lead us all to the obligation to improve the living conditions of as many people as possible. That is not going to work with the neoliberal course, it is not going to work with neoliberal policy, and that is not going to work with this cabinet. That is why it is time for a new compass, for a new course for the Netherlands leading to progress and better living conditions for many. People are counting on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u202	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. After Mr Alkaya's contribution, I would like to suspend until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-3.u203	After the suspension, we'll start with the arrangement of work. Then we proceed with the first term of office.
