ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the VSO Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 14 May 2019. I call Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. With last week's important IPBES report, nobody can ignore the fact that biodiversity is going very badly; I believe that Mr De Groot has said the same. I think it is a good thing that we realise this in the debate on tightening up the pesticide assessment methods, because there are major risks for bees and bumblebees, which are not yet included in the current assessment methods. The Dutch Government, in response to adopted motions from the Chamber, has in fact always told the Chamber that it is committed to tightening it up. Now it has been found that this is different behind the scenes. The discussion on this is continuing, because we still have answers to questions, but it is important that we clarify the Dutch position. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European methods for assessing pesticides do not include significant risks to bees and bumblebees, which means that there are all kinds of highly harmful substances allowed;]] [[having noted that the Court adopted various motions to remove highly toxic pesticides from the market for bees;]] [[noting that the government did not implement these adopted motions, but the Chamber promised to strengthen the assessment methods to protect bees and bumblebees from harmful pesticides;]] [[having noted that it appears that the Dutch Government has been resisting the necessary tightening for six years;]] [[Calls on the Government to do from this moment on what it has promised the Chamber, and to commit itself to the necessary tightening, and thus to the entry into force of the bee guideline as a whole, including the tests on chronic toxicity and the consequences for solitary bees and bumblebees, no later than 30 June 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Finally, the automatic extensions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission intends to extend automatically the authorisation of a large number of pesticides, while the prescribed scientific safety test has not taken place, with all the risks associated with pollinators and other animals and human health;]] [[noting that the European Commission is circumventing existing human and animal safety laws;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose proposals from the European Commission to extend authorisations of pesticides automatically if the prescribed statutory safety test has not been carried out and to vote against them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. This brings us directly to the end of the Chamber's contribution. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. She's still waiting for the motions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand's first motion suggests that we did not do what we said. Let me first say that I think it is important that the effects on bees are properly taken into account. I am therefore in favour of a new guide to beekeeping. There may still be some uncertainty about that, but that's for sure. I am not just saying that, as my predecessors have already said, it is important that the new guideline is workable in practice and that it is based on the most up-to-date scientific insights. That position has always taken place in the Netherlands and we have been consistent in that. You have been able to read this back in all the documents we have sent to the Chamber. There is no question that we have preached another position to the Chamber. The European Commission is preparing a proposal to allow the bee guideline to enter into force in stages. This is in line with the commitment of the Netherlands in recent years, and I am in favour of this. This could break the deadlock in the EU on the guideline: implement what can now be introduced and work better on what still needs to be worked out, but get to work. That is exactly in line with the position we have always taken, so I do not need to change anything. I am in favour of the rapid introduction of elements of the guideline on which there is consensus, and I will remain so. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	The motion in part No. 1171 is not recommended. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying so hard to control my anger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	Excuse me, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	This helped for a while; a breather. We are going to have the debate on what the Chamber has been previewed and on how exactly this relates to what the Cabinet has done. So I am not trying to talk about this now, but the fact is that if the Minister says that she is in favour of the introduction of the guideline, she is actually doing the same thing that I am so angry about. The guideline that is now in place is completely undressed except for a few tests. There was a proposal that would effectively protect bees and bumblebees based on new scientific insights. This proposal was presented in 2013. It has been under discussion for six years, and what the Netherlands now wants to agree to is a completely hollowed-out proposal. We're back to square one, and that's what the minister's trying to sell as "we're committed to bees and bumblebees." I would like to know from the Minister what is wrong if we leave out all the observations about the Court's request to work for the optimal protection of bees and bumblebees, including the tests proposed in 2013. Can the Minister work with this as the Chamber that motion (in part no. 1171)?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	I indicated earlier that a proposal for a bee guidance was put forward in 2013. Since then, the Netherlands has said that we are in favour of a bee guide; therefore also of considering the importance of bees and bumblebees in determining these resources. We had two points: chronic toxicity and practical studies. We have always raised these points. What you find must also be workable. We have not been inconsistent in this. That's what we told the Chamber. There was an impasse in Europe and the Netherlands was the one who said: let us introduce what we have agreed on instead of sticking to the circle in which we are talking now. Fortunately, the European Commission wants to do the same. We are very much in favour of this, because then we will at least take those steps. In that sense, I do not see the light Mrs Ouwehand is referring to. There isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	Again, I'm really trying to hide my anger about this. The Minister once again suggests that Member States were against it. The Netherlands was against! Under the Ruttian "it must be effective" the Netherlands has achieved that the tests necessary to protect bees have been cycled out. The cabinet calls this in the direction of the Chamber: "we do have some concerns about workability." It's about the tests. They were presented in 2013. The old guideline, on the basis of which thiacloprid is now widely used, is still the basis for the admission of these resources. I want the cabinet to do what it promised the Chamber when motions were passed: tighten up the assessment system. The Minister doesn't do that. We're gonna need to get those tests in. I want that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	This motion calls for a different line: that we return to a line that we have previewed. I have indicated that we have been consistent. So I do not recognize the content of the motion. That's why I'm dissuading her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	The motion in part No. 1171 is not recommended. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	I have a little bit of a dilemma, because I should of course have put my question to Mrs Ouwehand when she tabled her motion. So I ask the Minister how she reads this motion. This is quite apart from the fact that Mrs Ouwehand has already announced her intention to vote on this matter this week. I wonder at all why this haste is there, but I will come back to that after the second motion. This motion actually suggests that the Minister has not done what has been said. I read her or can read her as a motion of censure. I hope the Minister does not interpret her that way; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	Should I have my own motion of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	Now you need to indirectly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	I must now interpret my own motion of censure. I think that's a very complicated one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	I share the Minister's line. The Minister has been very clear about this in the past period. She has taken the Chamber in a very good way. What is happening here, I actually think, is a very crazy situation. Then be clear in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yes, but it is difficult to put that question to the Minister, because you should have asked Mrs Ouwehand. The Minister can respond to this, but I can imagine that an indirect response is a bit complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	I replied to the motion as I read it and as I interpret it and said that I do not recognize what is stated in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	The motion in part No. 1171 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 1172.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	The motion in part No. 1172 concerns the automatic renewal of the authorisation of funds. Mrs Ouwehand does not ask for the authorisation of funds to be extended automatically if the tests have not been carried out and if so, to vote against it. A procedure has been established to show how we deal with these matters. All substances to be re-evaluated should have been evaluated. This has also been included in the procedure, which is in line with the regulation. If the test has not yet taken place, extension shall take place. Again, that's what the regulation says. So that's just what we agreed on. The European Ombudsman has also recently considered that this procedure is okay. Of course, I think it is important that we do this as well as possible, but if it has not yet been completed, then that is not necessarily the fault of the author. Then it is also up to the Commission or other bodies that are still working on it. I think we should just stick to the procedures we have agreed on. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	I would remind the Minister of a motion previously adopted by the Chamber on this automatic renewal. I admit that the Chamber has made several statements which have left the message to the Minister unclear. But the last time those extensions suddenly came to the vote. Then the Minister informed the Chamber, but we received a letter on Friday. It was 30 fabrics and the next Monday it was already voted on. I am now tabling this motion simply to have a clear statement from the Chamber in case it suddenly comes up in the meantime. There's nothing the Minister can do about that, but we'll know where we stand. I would like to say to Mrs Lodders that I am quite prepared to make the observations in the motion on item No. We are going to have the debate on how the previous cabinet has now informed the Chamber. The request will then stand. So I'd be happy to discuss that. The reason I asked for a vote is that there will be another SCOPAFF meeting next week. The vote will not take place, but the discussion on this guideline will continue. It is therefore important to have a clear Dutch position. I hope I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	In a very special way, but you did. The minister still in response to Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	By the way, there are no procedural extensions on the agenda in the SCOPAFF of Monday. In that sense, the motion in part No. 1172 not the haste that Mrs Ouwehand might consider necessary. I would point out that there are often substances such as low-risk substances or biological agents. With this motion Mrs Ouwehand wipes all these things off the table at once. I say this just to make it clear that this is also often a matter of this kind. Once again, if we are to agree procedures in Europe, I think it should be clear to everyone what these procedures are like. Then one can also focus on it. If it is beyond the fault of the applicant for the renewal of the substance that it has not yet taken place, I do not think that you should be against it automatically, so I am still opposed to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	Yes, Chairman, finally. Then I shall also take that last motion, the motion in part No. 1172, which is in line with a motion previously adopted by the Chamber which makes a distinction between means. There are means that the Chamber and the European Parliament have said that it is really unwise to prolong them. So that motion will also be subject to a slight change. I think it is good to vote on this because there will be no extensions on the agenda for next Monday, but the Minister also knows that the Chamber was informed last time on Friday, after which it was already a matter of voting on Monday. So let's just get a clear statement. So my request to vote on this motion also remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'm just trying to sum it all up. There are two motions. Both motions are denied judgment. Mrs Ouwehand has indicated that she will amend both motions. So there will be two amended motions, but they will both remain in Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	No, not judgment room, but dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	Dissuade. Apologies. They both remain, the two modified motions, dissuade the judgment. Mrs Ouwehand has now put the request to vote on this on Thursday. We are all trying to keep the number of votes as low as possible in this house. Exceptionally, we are voting on Thursday, if there is cause for this in a European context because there is a Council. That is not formally the case in this case, because the Agriculture Council is now over, but there is a discussion on Monday. Mrs Ouwehand welcomes the possibility of sending the cabinet to Brussels with a mandate, but the Minister points out that there will be no procedural change. So my question is for a moment, also with a view to keeping all people in for tomorrow's vote, whether Mrs Ouwehand really attaches great importance to voting on it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	The Minister said this in response to the second motion. There are no extensions on the agenda, but the debate on the Bee Guidance, which is the subject of the first motion, is on the agenda. In the facts, thank you for sending this to the Chamber, we have seen that very important discussions are taking place in that committee. Before that ScoPAFF meeting takes place, it must therefore be clear what the Chamber wants and what the position of the Dutch delegation is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	Clear. Then you maintain your wish. If other Members of this House think it should be changed, they will have to deal with this later on in the regulation. I believe that is the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and I suspend until 2.10 p.m. Then we'll continue with the arrangement.
