ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mr Stoffer's question to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, who will replace the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the doubling of the number of deaths caused by alcohol. I call Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, thank you. You're an idiot when you're stunting alcohol. The number of deaths due to alcohol consumption has more than doubled over the last two years and in 95% of cases it is not even about the drink driver himself. The number of accidents resulting from the combination of alcohol and drug use has more than doubled. The number of road accidents involving nitrous oxide is also increasing exponentially. The actual numbers are even higher, because they are not always measured. The police thought there would be less alcohol in traffic, but the reality is, as we see, completely different. How is that possible? The SGP thinks that we really think that the cabinet is too soft towards drinkers and drug riders. That is why I have a number of questions. The first question is whether there will be an in-depth investigation into the use of alcohol, drugs and nitrous oxide in traffic. There are now far less large-scale alcohol controls than in the past, and the police also very often opt for less striking controls, but I am afraid that they fall far too often because suddenly different priorities are set. My second question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she can inform the Chamber within a month of the progress of the alcohol and drug controls in recent years. My third question is whether the Secretary of State is going to ensure that there are more frequent major alcohol controls and whether drugs and nitrous oxide are explicitly included. Let's see that in traffic this just isn't accepted? Finally, Mr President. Drinkers just need to be dealt with as hard as they can. The cabinet refuses to re-introduce the alcohol lock for notorious drink drivers, while it is so effective: drink up, then simply the door of your car will not open. The Minister raises all kinds of legal objections, but I have already said that where there is a will, there is a way. So my question is, when is that alcohol lock coming back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Stoffer. Driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs poses a major risk to road safety. Controls on alcohol and drugs are therefore also of great importance in traffic. Alcohol is and remains one of the priorities in traffic enforcement. The Minister of Justice and Security regularly talks with the Chief Constable about improving traffic enforcement. Enforcement may have become less visible due to fewer coven controls, but the social media make them much less effective. The police control more closely and more frequently with discreet vehicles and act in a targeted way by removing people from traffic in the event of abnormal behaviour. If the police estimate that fissure controls are effective, they will also be deployed in a targeted manner. This happens, for example, on the roads of festivals. As Mr Stoffer said, it is not just alcohol these days. Drugs are often also involved, and this can also be seen in traffic accidents. Drugs in traffic are dangerous and therefore it is good that the police can use the instrument of saliva testing. We are taking various measures to tackle drivers with alcohol on the road more strictly. For example, you can think of the bill tightening criminal liability serious traffic offences, which today is a hammer piece in the Upper House. Among other things, the maximum penalty for driving under the influence goes up from three months to a year. In addition, efforts are being made to consult the draft law on tightening up measures against driving under the influence this week. One of the measures proposed is the possibility for the court to declare the right to drive enforceable immediately. This means that a person who has been caught for alcohol use in traffic cannot continue to drive during the treatment of an appeal. Mr Stoffer has asked if there will be a thorough investigation. I think we can come a long way with the legislative proposals that lie here. If I have understood Mr Stoffer correctly, he has also asked whether the House of Representatives can be informed about alcohol controls within a month. I need to see if that's possible within a month. The third question was about more large checks in traffic. I have just said that these checks are not so effective and that is why we are doing it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	I thank the Secretary of State for answering almost all my questions. In 2016 and 2017 we had 13 and 15 road deaths due to alcohol consumption. In 2018, we had 40. And now we're at 30. That was the case in September this year. That's a huge rise. I hear the Secretary of State say all excellent things, which sounds good, but my question is whether she is also confident that we will actually reduce it in a moment. My question is also very much about the progress and our understanding of these controls. In fact, I have a strong suspicion that setting other priorities and no longer having these controls will reduce all these controls. I am therefore pleased that the Secretary of State has promised to give me an answer to that question, but I would like to know explicitly how quickly that will come to us. Then we will come back to that after that. That's one. Two. I also asked a specific question about the alcohol lock. That's not just a wish from me. I think we have seen this coming back in the news reports of the VVD. I think that's a broader wish here in the Chamber. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State when we're getting that alcohol lock back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Stoffer probably knows that in 2016 the Council of State issued a ruling on the effectiveness of the alcohol lock. Actually, there was a double penalty in that. On the one hand, it had to be considered if you needed it for work to drive the car. At the same time, the person who had to have that alcohol lock applied had to pay for it himself. In addition, there was the criminal component. That's why that went off the table at the time. In addition, the alcohol lock itself is a good instrument, but it does not mean that the person who has alcohol cannot drive, because he can drive another car. Perhaps it is interesting for Mr Stoffer to learn that there has been a pilot with an alcohol ankle strap. The results of that pilot come later this year. That's a lot more useful than an alcohol lock. That alcohol ankle strap can determine on the basis of the sweat release whether there is too much alcohol in the game, and then you can't drive another car.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	Everyone looks a little surprised, because what does an alcoholic ankle bandage look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	It's not connected. An anklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	Sorry, an anklet. But everyone looks a little surprised, so "what does that look like?" Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	It's the first time I've been allowed to ask questions here, but I still have more room to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	Yeah, one minute. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	Look. As far as I am concerned, an alcohol lock in a different form, for example in the form of an anklet, is also excellent. I would therefore like further information on this when the results of the pilot are available. I want to insist once again that it all sounds nice, but that you just have to act really hard here. Using alcohol and going into traffic just can't be together. So you're gonna have to punish him hard. You gotta be hard at that. Whatever someone has to pay and whatever barriers it turns out there are, I urge the Secretary of State to do this because we cannot tolerate this. Those numbers need to be brought back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	I would like to take away the impression that Mr Stoffer apparently has that nothing is being done. There's a lot going on. It is also a great concern for the Minister of Justice and Security that this is indeed being reduced. Driving under the influence, whether it's alcohol or drugs, alcohol without drugs, drugs without alcohol, or whatever, is a terrible thing. We need to reduce this as much as possible. I have just mentioned some measures for this. Just a moment about informing the Chamber about the checks in traffic: I can promise that information on this can be provided for the Road Safety Authority on 18 December 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	You will lose your child, your beloved, but in this way by reckless, dangerous driving through alcohol, drugs or nitrous gas. But we can see that the number of checks is decreasing. The capacity of the police to carry out checks is also decreasing. That also applies to the chance of getting caught. You can have all kinds of measures and you can weigh down all kinds of punishments, but if perpetrators aren't caught, that's all wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	My question is this. We can now also see that the regions are being emptied and that there is insufficient capacity for police officers. Agents also indicate this: there can no longer be monitoring for speed or for alcohol or drugs. My question to the Secretary of State is, therefore, what is she going to do specifically to increase this chance of getting caught?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	The police are more focused on checking for deviant behavior. I am not saying that the police have started to control less, but more focused to be able to deal with individual road users. Short checks will take place at alternate locations. There is therefore a different approach, but no less approach has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u19	Two weeks ago, this was also a topic in the budget of Infrastructure and Water State. The Secretary of State will understand that. We have raised two points on which I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State. Higher sanctions are really needed. We are thinking of income-dependent fines and also of taking away the driving licence or introducing points, so that this can also be increased. Can the Secretary of State give her views on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u20	I have just said that I am pleased that today, as a hammer piece in the First Chamber, the draft law tightening criminal liability lies in serious traffic offences, with the maximum penalty for driving under the influence rising from three months to one year. In any case, this is an important measure. I also said that the bill is going into consultation this week to tighten up measures against DUI.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u21	I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I have two follow-up questions. Mr Stoffer just asked very explicitly for an investigation to see if there really is more alcohol in traffic. I think that might be valuable. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to reconsider that investigation. You kind of dodged the answer to the question of whether you're going to do that investigation or not. You say "we're going to be at festivals" and you hint a bit that it's happening more to young people, but it may also be that drinking just gets more and more normal in everyday traffic and that we should therefore go into it more deeply. After all, we have the Strategic Road Safety Plan and we have to get to those zero road deaths every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u22	There is a special focus on alcohol, but it is also very well known that there is a lot of driving under the influence of drugs, alcohol and drugs, or drugs and medicines. It is therefore very difficult to conduct a major investigation into this. That's gonna have to be a really big investigation. To be honest, I would think it wise to raise this issue with the Road Safety Agency on 18 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u23	The numbers are extremely shocking. If you are dealing with the loss of someone due to an accident in traffic that may have involved alcohol or drugs, it is extremely difficult for the next of kin. If the driver died in such an accident but also made other victims, it does not appear to be tested for drugs or alcohol in the blood, while it is extremely important for the relatives in the truth finding to know exactly what happened. Is the Secretary of State prepared to test these drivers for the use of alcohol and drugs, even if they died in the accident?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u24	I understand the question of the CDA representative very well. I can also understand that parents or relatives very much want to know whether the person who killed their child or their loved one was under influence or not. There's just a lot of legal hooks and eyes testing someone after they die. So I cannot answer that at the moment. I can say that it can be looked at, but there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it; you should know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u25	And that the Chamber will also be informed when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u26	Yes... I don't know if I can go that far. I would also ask that this be discussed with the AO on road safety. I'd love to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u27	Then it comes back to the general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u28	The cabinet speaks big words: zero road deaths in 2030. It's in the Strategic Road Safety Plan. But at the same time, during this cabinet period, the number of road deaths is increasing, and the number of alcohol fatalities has more than doubled between 2017 and 2019. That is the reality. On the other hand, we are dealing here with a minister of a party who has ruled for ten years and who has made huge cuts in the capacity of the police. As a result, the number of alcohol controls has actually been reduced. The Secretary of State said he didn't, but he did. So I would like to know from this Secretary of State what she is going to do not only to speak big words about road safety but also to actually deliver, for example by increasing police capacity. When's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u29	The approach to alcohol is one of the national priorities of OM and police. They have established this jointly in the Transport Guidelines 2016-2018. That guide sees traffic enforcement by the teams traffic. I have to refer to that and I think that the answer has been given. It's a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you.
