ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP for his questions. These are actually written questions that were tabled a long time ago and have not been answered. These questions are about ICT bureaucracy and are addressed to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I would also like to welcome. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, that is correct. 560 days ago, I asked the questions. 560 days ago, I got really mad when I heard the story about Saskia. She is a Rotterdamer and is totally out of debt to be paid into debt by the government. In 1998, her car was stolen. She reports that, but because of a mistake in the system, she continues to receive fines for years for a car which she no longer has. She's been in this mess for years and she's building huge debts. She's gonna have to deal with the police. She's dealing with bailiffs. She comes at some point without heating in winter. In the meantime, she's just trying to raise her kid, but she's terrified of child services. She can't sleep and gets sick. I would like to stress that it is not her fault, by her own government. 560 days ago, I submitted questions to the House about this. For we cannot allow the government to become an enemy of its own citizens. It is unacceptable that people are not considered innocent until proven otherwise, but that some people are already thrown into misery in advance, until they themselves can prove after years that they are really innocent. 560 days ago, I asked for a solution and full compensation for this lady for 15 years of unjustly incurred costs. How are we doing with that? I'm asking the Minister. I still do not have an answer to this. 560 days ago, I didn't know how much more trouble the IRS was. I asked how the government will prevent this happening to more people, that people become victims of their own government. What has the government been doing for a year and a half? Why does it take so long to help one innocent citizen, who is disadvantaged by her own government? Can I assume that this gross error was a one-off? Or could this be as widespread as the scandal of childcare allowances?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior. The questions were asked in June 2018, so I am also very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. You normally know me as someone who takes due account of the deadlines. I'm not proud of the record that's here right now, but that's actually in a number of things, which I'd like to explain. I fully understand Mr Alkaya when he says: I was furious when I read it. I read that article when I believe 1 June 2018 was also in the NRC. On the Monday after that, when I had portfolio consultations, I immediately raised this question and asked: what is going on here? This is a terrible sad story, perhaps a symbol for a vulnerable citizen who is mangled between the wheels of the government. That was the first picture I had when I read that story. I've asked my officials to find out. Soon we came to the conclusion that many government organisations have been involved in this. I said, "I want to pick this up." And why? Because I have said from the outset, including in the debate on the digital government, that we should serve the people; we must stand up for people who have fallen into such a situation and no longer see a way out. I thought it was a terrible story, too. I said: how wonderful it would be if we could just solve this case for a moment out of the box, apart from all the bureaucracy that is there of course. I've asked my officials to do that. They have been in contact with other departments, CJIB, police, Tax Office, RDW and municipalities, all kinds of parties that have been involved in this dossier for fifteen or twenty years. I am sorry that we still do not have a solution at the moment. I've sent two reprieve letters. Why did I do that? Because we're still talking to the lady to see how we can solve this case. I do not want to put any pressure on her to say: you must respond within 30 days. We have made a number of agreements and we have made proposals. She's been asked for a reprieve several times. I've given that delay over and over again. The final postponement requested was on 2 December last. I am also thinking of giving that as the last time to give another opportunity to come to a solution. How wonderful it would be if we could solve this case, which, as far as I am concerned, is a symbol of several cases. I also hope that this case is not a symbol of many more cases, because I hope that the government will also learn from this: how do you deal with people who are in trouble and is there a window where you can go, where you can do your story, where you are not sent from the cabinet to the wall? I hope this works. That would mean that if I accepted the request made by Mrs van 2 December this year for further postponement, I would be able to report to the Chamber in January. That seems to me to be a good thing given the time frame, all the efforts made by our side and the talks I had with her myself in November. I invited the lady and asked her, "Would you do your story and tell me what you've been through?" That was terrifying, I have to say. That was an additional motivation for me to really want to solve this case. So I understand that Mr Alkaya says it takes a very long time. It's gonna take a while. I would also have thought it could be much shorter, but I am ultimately concerned about the result. I admit that if I have the results of those talks in January, I will inform you as soon as possible about the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	This is certainly a good commitment, but it seems that the Minister is not satisfied with what the Minister has to offer here. We can also read that most of the attacks on the tax authorities of the amounts unduly paid are no longer to be found in the system. They can only repay until 2006. Only the fines paid in the past year can be refunded at the Central Justice Collection Office. Is it true, then, that perhaps the Minister is only willing to compensate one group for the unfairly incurred costs incurred by this lady and that she is constantly postponing it because she is not satisfied with how she is compensated? Can the Minister promise here that he will compensate for all the unfairly incurred costs of this lady from 1998 onwards? Because this case has been going on ever since.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	At the risk of going into the case already, I am happy to go into it, but I would like to say to you that this will be in January, I can say in general terms that on my side there is, of course, the willingness to deal with it in an appropriate way. One of the problems of the Commission, if I may put it that way, is that not all the data from the past have come to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	But she can't help it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, that's the problem. At the same time, I also have a responsibility to answer and I must ensure that there is an appropriate solution. Of course, we are also asking for legal advice, but I will tell you one thing, Mr Alkaya: if I had followed the legal advice from the beginning, I should have done nothing at all. I do not want to do that, just to show that we are standing alongside the citizens who are in trouble. So I've really gone to the limit. I hope that the talks will be concluded in a positive way. I repeat that you will be answered in detail, including the questions you are now asking. Because those questions are justified, but if I answered them now, it would burden the file. I wouldn't want that. Your last question was whether this is a one-off case. It is precisely by looking at this in a "out of the box" way, in a different way, that I hope that people who have been dealt with by all kinds of organisations in their own right may also be able to be helped by the rules and get into problems that accumulate. You just mentioned the discussion about the Tax Administration, but I could mention several implementation organisations where people do very good things every day but sometimes forget people. Every system, no matter how good it is, will sometimes lead to people falling between shore and ship. Those people, too, have a right to support. So this has to be done in a different way from the normal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think you've been given firm assurances, Mr. Alkaya, about how these matters will be handled. You will also be informed about the outcome of these negotiations at the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. We're gonna keep a close eye on that. Then I will stop talking about this case, but finally I do have a question about the system. Because the minister says he's acting out of the box. By "the box," he means the laws, the rules and the civil service. He states that he wants to be above that and not act according to the legal advice. But it is serious that an entire government organization, which rules and laws after almost ten years of Rutte have apparently been designed so that they have become an enemy of their own citizens? That is why I would like to ask this Minister the following question. Surely it cannot be that if something goes wrong in a computer system, which automatically leads to sanctions and fines on the part of the government, but if it is corrected after years of misery, that does not automatically result in compensation and that people have to go after it again for years? Is that solved in the system? Can people assume that, if they are innocent, they will be compensated sooner or later and that this will also be incorporated into the systems by this minister, who is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	Did these questions also appear in your written questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	Yeah, they're right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	I fully understand that question, because the point is that you do not want citizens to be unjustly ground up in bureaucracy, which is always necessary. We need systems and we need rules, but there's always a group that doesn't fall into those messes. We need to make sure that I feel that I am responsible for getting to it earlier, especially for that group of people, who are often already vulnerable and who often find themselves in trouble, which makes the problem so big that almost no one can solve it anymore. As far as your comment on the legal advisers is concerned, I did not say that people have told me that it is all against the law. I'm just saying that doing things right and by the rules doesn't automatically mean that you solve a case like this well. So you have to take a step further, you have to have a window and you have to help people to solve this problem. The lesson I can already draw from this is that this has gone on for far too long and that now, twenty years after that, we are dealing with the situation that we no longer have all the data, which makes it difficult to look at it. Nevertheless, I insist that I am determined to resolve this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	It's very good to hear that. Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. That brings us to the end of this Question Time.
