ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the report of the general consultation on the subject of pensions on 6 February. Here too, we have many speakers in a short time. You will all be given the floor if you can also restrict yourself. First, I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Millions of Dutch people are worried about possible reductions in their pensions. In the debate we had, this Minister did not want to commit, and that is unacceptable. These discounts have to be cancelled. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the threat of pension reductions is immediately withdrawn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove the planned pension reforms and to present a real calculation rate for pension funds, thus avoiding pension reductions and allowing short-term indexation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-445]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The concerns about our pensions are great. A lot of people have uncertainty about when you can stop working, whether you're cut or not, or maybe even get a little bit more. That is why it is particularly important that there should be a real debate, that trade unions, employers and the cabinet should return to the table, and that no negotiations or'shooting' should be done through the newspapers, but that it should simply be done at the table, as far as we are concerned, rather yesterday than today. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that discussions with the social partners on a new pension agreement have not yet resumed;]] [[Whereas a new pension agreement is urgently needed to avoid, as far as possible, any imminent reductions in pensions for employees and pensioners;]] [[Whereas many older workers are looking for measures to stop working earlier;]] [[Whereas older people and young people do not want to continue to work forever;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the following variants:]] [[the legal adjustments and the financial consequences of an AOW coupling "living one year longer" does not automatically mean one year longer working;]] [[sectoral agreements to allow early cessation of work;]] [[and to send them to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. I wondered for a moment how the first appeal relates to the vote taken and, in my view, Mr Van Dijk and his party supported motion by Mr Buma, who was broadly signed and in which I also felt he was asked to look at that link. So I do not have any sharpness in what this motion adds to that other motion. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk can help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u5	We add the urgency of the AOW link. That's one side of the motion, but we'll add another. This concerns the possibility of sectoral agreements when it comes to early cessation of work. This is not just a matter for the social partners. It may also be something for the cabinet, for example when it comes to an RVU tax, the tax fine if you stop working earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u6	I almost get the impression that Mr Gijs van Dijk is just as sorry as I am that the consultation failed, because these were exactly the points that were in the cabinet bid. So I see some perspective in this respect, but I am going to read the motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u7	There's gotta be a little bit more to do with the cabinet. Then I believe in a good outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you. I call Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. It is a real shame that the negotiations on a possible pension agreement were collapsed in November. We all know why it collapsed, because the cabinet was not prepared to meet the very real demands of the trade union movement on a number of points. We regret that, especially because many people are currently subject to discounts, as of 1 January next. We really need to prevent that. That is precisely why we were so surprised at the letter sent by Minister Koolmees to the Chamber on how to proceed. We were expecting this to be a letter with some kind of open invitation to the social partners to come back to the table as soon as possible. But it wasn't. That's what I said in the AO a month ago. It is a kind of elaboration of points which the cabinet is strongly in favour of, whereas there is absolutely no support for them in the polder and neither is there in this Chamber. Two more weeks and we'll have the county elections. Then this cabinet is most likely to lose its majority. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the pension negotiations collapsed in November 2018;]] [[noting that the Koolmees letter was intended as a "warm invitation" to the social partners to sit back at the table;]] [[calls on the government to resume negotiations quickly with the social partners and offer more than what was on the table in November 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-448]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope that this motion will be adopted, because we have no time to waste. However, we should not go down the dead end of this cabinet. We need to get a better look at the social partners. Then we can work together to create a new pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. Today, I am giving the coalition parties a chance to do what Prime Minister Rutte proposed during the negotiations on a new pension system in the middle of the night, namely not shortening if the coverage rate is above 100%. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the current rules of the Financial Review Framework (FK), at constant low accounting rates for a number of pension funds from 2020, there is a risk of definitive reductions for accrued pension rights for both pensioners and active and former members;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to require such discounts, whereas even at extremely low interest rates, by far the majority of pension funds still have a coverage rate of more than 100%;]] [[Whereas it is clear that, in the case of cover of more than 100%, all liabilities can be met by a pension fund;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to explain to those concerned that priority is given to building up a minimum buffer at the expense of the level of pension or benefit in a situation where all obligations can be met;]] [[Whereas, due to the long-standing absence of indexation, both active and former participants and pensioners already make a significant contribution to maintaining the financial situation of pension funds;]] [[Whereas the five-year period set for undermining the minimum required own funds, after which definitive reductions have to be made, has been chosen at random, particularly in view of the long duration of the low interest period;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a proposal that does not reduce accrued pension rights to be passed on by pension funds on the basis of the loss of the minimum required own funds with a consecutive five-year period, while the coverage rate is higher than 100%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-449]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr President, a second motion following...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u14	No, you have two minutes' speaking time, you have a very long motion, you have used those two minutes. This is the choice you made. So I can't give you two more minutes. You only have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u15	You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yeah, I'm sorry, but it's no different. Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. We had an extensive exchange of views during the general consultation. I'm still waiting for a letter with a few questions, but it won't come in a few weeks. I also mention Duvast, because we also have the problem of asset managers. I'll wait for those things. Who's investigating whether you should be able to pay off your pension? What's the research question? Can we get it when the investigation's started? The CDA has been clear about the government's letter: we assess everything step by step and there is no agreement. We have another motion from Mr Buma, which has already been referred to in Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion. In that we ask for an alternative to the one-to-one coupling. If you have a year longer life expectancy, the AOW age no longer shifts a year, it can be a little less. When can we face that investigation? I think that is very important for the new pension system. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few comments on the ABP, which we discussed in detail yesterday. Clumsy with the partner pension in 2015, screw up with the ANW-haïate insurance last year and now the pension statements of the ABP, which are apparently worthless, because there can be recovered later. People don't get a recalculation, they get an immediate recovery. As far as the CDA is concerned, a pension statement or communication from a pension fund is not worthless. It's one of your biggest possessions, next to your own house. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that members cannot derive enforceable rights from uniform pension statements and annual statements of a pension fund, such as the ABP, which now intends to recover sums paid;]] [[considers that members of their pension fund should be given an indication of rights that provide legal certainty about acquired rights (including the hardness and possibility of discounts);]] [[calls on the Government to draw up, within six months, a proposal allowing members to obtain legal certainty from their pension fund over claims and pension payments and to propose, if necessary, a legislative amendment to this effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-450]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Kent, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. The letter from Minister Koolmees following the failure of the pension agreement was not seen by employers and employees as an invitation to engage again, but rather as a form of declaration of war. In the general discussion that we have had on this subject, we have discussed the issue of the AOW in detail with this Minister. This made it clear once again that this minister is only willing to do something for a very small group in the very short term, but at least not structurally in the longer term is willing to make money available for it and to take real action. An investigation, we can get that, not real measures. Then there are the accounting rules, which many others have already mentioned, which are likely to be reduced by 1 January next. On this point, too, the government was not prepared to do more than appoint a committee, where the outcome is uncertain and therefore no guarantees can be given in this respect. Then the pension for everyone, so that people can build up a pension and the waiting period for temporary workers is removed, who do not build up a pension at all during the first six months. On this point, too, the government was not prepared to take steps. The Labour Party and GroenLinks have also tabled two motions on behalf of the SP. In addition, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide structural cover for structural arrangements resulting from any pension agreement concluded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-451]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u20	So that, when agreements are made on, for example, the long-term AOW age, there will always be financial coverage, and that will not be left to the uncertainty or future governments who will also comply with these agreements. I see the Minister laughing, but this was one of the serious problems that were on the table during the retirement negotiations. You did say that you were going to appoint a committee to investigate something, but then you did not give any guarantees. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'm suspending the sitting for a few minutes to a quarter to one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u22	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the Chamber for the questions and the motions. In the last VAO I forgot to congratulate Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg on a brilliant evening last night. Even as a Feyenoorder, I enjoyed it. Last time I had a lot of fun with the 6-2, but now I also had fun with the 1-4. Let me start with a few general points. At the AO we discussed in detail my letter following the deadlock of the pension negotiations. We have talked extensively about how it has been interpreted, how it has been received and what its purpose was. I would like to stress once again that, as far as I am concerned, the package that was on the table in November is still on the table. Of course, there were also movements of the cabinet, for example when it comes to the RVU tax, sectoral agreements, customization, but also about the less rapid rise in the AOW age. I have found that the negotiations have stalled and I have also found that I do not want to sit on my hands. I just need to get to work on topics that also live widely in this Chamber as important points of interest. I would like to mention three specific points addressed in the letter. The first is to compensate for the abolition of the average systematic system. There are really questions about how to do that in different arrangements and how to do it in a balanced way. We're working that out nicely right now. The second point is indeed the one-to-one link, the Buma motion on which Mr Omtzigt has put another question. The request is to pick it up and work it out, also because of the linking of life expectancy to rising AOW age. The third point is the increased white spots, the people who do not build a pension. I also often hear from the trade union movement that she is concerned about this. As far as I am concerned, this has also been a very strong hand in addressing and taking into account the points that the trade union movement was concerned about, in order to be able to offer comfort in them as well. Having said that, I come to all the discussions on accounting rules, discounts and interim adjustments. I remain of the opinion that it is unwise for me to do so in isolation. As a cabinet, we have offered a comprehensive package in the negotiations with the social partners. That is a total package in which really different distribution rules and rules on how you handle building pensions are in place. This could be indexed more quickly, but would also be cut more quickly. From such a package you cannot get one or two separate calculation rules or discounts, because then it becomes unbalanced between generations. I think that is unwise, so I would advise against motions for resolutions which call for this. Then I come to Mr Omtzigt's question on the Buma motion. When's this coming? We're still in consultation with the RIVM and the Central Planning Office. This has a certain background, because the question is clear, but an update of the ageing population figures is under way, which are relevant to the basic path. So we're looking for what we can do. I see Mr Omtzigt nodding. Thank you for that. Finally, one more point in this block in general. Yesterday we discussed ABP in Question Time. I also said to Mr Omtzigt yesterday that I do not think that this deserves a beauty prize. I'm also going to talk to the ABP to see if there's any coulance in the refund scheme. I will come to the motion in a moment, but I agree with Mr Omtzigt on that. The motion in part No. Mr Mulder asked the government to ensure that the threat of pension reductions would be removed immediately. That fits in with my line of thinking that you should have a total reform of the pension system and that you should not take one part of it, because then it becomes unbalanced. I therefore advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 446 by Mr Mulder. We have had a lot of discussions about the interest rate in this house. We have heard several experts on this in the hearings we have had on this subject. We have the letter from Mr Klaas Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank. I also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 447 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent, I find an interesting motion. I'm kind of looking for what the opposition is asking of me. In any case, I have indicated in general consultation that I will come forward with a letter before the summer on the development of the ten-point plan. This will include all these elements, including the compensation for the elimination of the common problem and the one-to-one link. The operative part states: "The Government requests that the following variants be developed: the legal adjustments and the financial consequences of the AO link (...)." That is indeed the Buma motion in different ways, as Mr Van Weyenberg just said. So that's part of the letter I'm sending the Chamber for the summer. When it comes to sectoral agreements to make it possible to stop working earlier, that was already in the package that we had offered as a cabinet. The RVU tax went to 0 in the last year for the AOW-age and in the second year for the AOW-age it was halved. We made that offer as a cabinet towards the trade union movement. I'm looking for other ways. I reported that in the AA, too. I thought it was Mr Stoffer of the SGP, who asked if there were any other modalities that would be more appropriate for people with lower incomes. I find that all interesting variants to find out. These can also be part of discussions with the social partners, hopefully later. Against this background and if I may interpret the motion in this way, I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber. But you also understand that I have to negotiate with the social partners, not with the Chamber. I can't share everything with you. The parts that are in it, I understand very well and were already part of the package that the cabinet has offered. I'm always looking for creative new ideas to get the consultation going. In fact, if I may interpret the motion in this way, I'd be happy to give her a Chamber of Appeal. The motion in part No. 448 by Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk will cross the bridge again. It actually includes the request to negotiate with the Chamber. That's just too far, I think. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr Smeulders. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u25	I certainly expected the motion to get the verdict "dissuade." I just don't understand the Minister's argument very well. He says "actually it is negotiating with the Chamber," but it says: calls on the government to negotiate with the social partners quickly again. As a chamber, which is still about the budgetary frameworks, we call for more than the cabinet has done so far. That sounds pretty clean to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u26	Then my very formalistic reaction is: you have no cover for that, because there is no cover in this motion. I'd find that reaction faint, so I'm not gonna give it either. I'm very motivated to get out of here. I also said that the package that was on the table in November is still on the table. I also see the desires and the discussion that arises. It says here "to offer more," but then I'm going to negotiate through your Chamber. I don't do that in public. That's what I have to do with social partners. Against that background, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u27	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u28	Then one follow-up question. If the Minister is going to negotiate with the social partners, is the offer or is there anything else possible? That is the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u29	The answer to this key question is negotiation. Mr Smeulders understands perfectly well that I am not going to do that in public. All I can say is that the package we offered is on the table. There were parts like a less rapid increase in the AOW age, a movement of the cabinet at the RVU and a movement on sustainable employability. There was also far-reaching agreement on pension contracts. Mr Smeulders understands very well that if I make a public statement about this now, they will be the headlines. I'm not, because I'm negotiating with the social partners. The very long motion in part No. 449 by Mr Van Rooijen. Mr Van Rooijen and I have often had discussions on all kinds of items addressed in the motion. I want to get one out, which is 100% coverage. During the negotiations, we offered that if we were not going to steer in the new situation towards a minimum required equity of 104.2% and 104.3% but at 100%, it would also be reasonable to send at 100%, so that discounts for pension funds that have coverage rates between 100% and 104.2% and 104.3% would not take place. But that's only a very small part of this story. This also means that you switch to another pension contract with faster indexing, but also with faster shortening, while we have agreed in the nftk rules that we actually have a sort of steeringless zone between 90% and 110% coverage. Then it would be cherrypicking anyway. That is why I stand by the view that such a movement can only be achieved in an overall agreement on a future-proof pension system. That is why this motion leads too much to changing the rules of the game rather than having the discussion about the future pension system. That's why I don't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u30	Cherrypicking... I will not go into that further. In the Minister's response, he used the discounts, the threatening discounts, also at the end of the year for the metal, as a crowbar to attract the social partners to a new pension system. We think that is unfair. Let me give an example of the metal pension funds, which may have to cut 10% by the end of the year under the current rules. With an average pension of €500 per month, this is €50 reduction for metalworkers and metal pensioners. That's not fair if the coverage rate is above 100%, is it? Then you should not say: yes, but that is actually what we have offered if there had been a new system. Even within the existing system, everyone feels that if you can meet all the obligations, i.e. with a coverage rate of 100% and more, there is no need to be reduced. Now this should be done in the metal sector to a very large extent: 10% for 1.5 million participants over an average of €500 per month. That's $50 a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u31	Apart from all figures... We cannot say anything about this yet, because we have the system that there are six measuring moments in five years' time: for five years, the coverage rate of the pension fund must be below the minimum required own funds of 104.2% and the pension funds have ten years of a recovery period to clear up their deficits. So let's not have a contest about those numbers. They are also different this month than two months ago, when we talked about the AO on this point. We also see that some of the stock exchanges have been restored and that interest rates have changed a little. Those are daily rates. So I don't want to talk about that. On the second point, which Mr Van Rooijen referred to as 'the crowbar' or 'blackmail', I really do disagree fundamentally with Mr Van Rooijen. If you create a system in which you agree, for example, that if you have a coverage below 100%, you are not going to shorten because you are in a recovery period procedure..... we made that appointment with the nftk and with Mrs Klijnsma in 2015..... but the rules will change again if the rules start to hurt, then you are unbalanced. Then that is not fair to generations, and that can only be done if you jointly decide to amend the pension contract. That's why I find this cherrypicking: you then unpack one part of it. I do not think that is wise, given that we have been having this debate on the future of pensions for nine years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u32	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yes, Mr. Chairman. If I sum it up very briefly, then it is actually the case that reductions have to be made to build up the buffers, while those benefits do not take place later. So you're actually gonna do something super careful, but you're not gonna get anything in the end. My question is: if the level of cover is 100% and a pension fund can meet all the obligations, why should you have to cut short to actually create an extra buffer that doesn't give you anything anyway? Because you'll be cut off first to build a further buffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u34	In the core, it's very simple. In 2015, the rules for the nftk were amended. At that time, your Chamber, at least by a majority of your Chamber, also chose to steer on a minimum required equity of that 104.2%. It has also been chosen not to shorten between that 90% and 100% cover if you are in a recovery period. So these are the rules. I am also obliged to implement the law adopted by a majority in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber, which has been the subject of an extensive debate. That is also the current law, which was adopted at the time, and which I note only a moment ago, also in good consultation with the pension sector. I recognize Mr Omtzigt's point in the motion for a resolution. 450: what does the UPO actually say? Sorry, the Uniform Pension Review, the UPO. Can you derive rights from that? I had a debate on this with Mr Omtzigt during the debate on IORP II. The status of the UPO is part of the evaluation of pension communication. That is what I said yesterday in Question Time. I do not want to anticipate that, because the question is also: what does it mean if you turn the UPO into a legal document? And what does that mean for the information and willingness of pension funds to share this kind of information? And aren't you just going to put the horse behind the cart, which is that you don't inform people about how much pension they've built up to act? But this motion is ahead of us, so I would advise against this motion. I would like to reiterate the point that has been made in the evaluation of pension communication to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u35	I'm surprised. And that sentence surprises me, too. It could do something for the willingness of pension funds to communicate. Pension funds have a pot of 1,350 billion euros of assets. That ability isn't theirs, that's those contestants. Then you must know what kind of claim you can make to that? And that motion didn't say that it had to be done through the UPO. It even leaves the possibility that you ask a separate letter to the pension fund. We have had questions before here in the Chamber from people who write the fund: if I retire early now, how much do I get? People get a note back. On that basis, they'll make a decision. Turns out it's 30% lower afterwards. People can't go anywhere. That's the kind of situation I want avoided. And I don't care if it goes through the UPO or any other way. But it can't be that a participant could lose half his pension in one go. We've seen that now. And that is the search contained in this motion. I hope that at least the Minister will be able to do that search and give a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u36	I understand the search. I've already shared that search. That is why I explicitly included this point in the evaluation of pension communication that I announced, also in response to a previous request from Mr Omtzigt in that discussion. This motion goes a step further, namely to make concrete legislative proposals. I must advise against it, because we have now gone through this evaluation and I will inform your Chamber about it in the second half of this year. So I maintain my judgment, regardless of the fact that I understand the question very well and understand the purpose. With that background, I want to look for what is possible, but also wise. Mr President, I am ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u37	You have one more motion from Mr Van Kent, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u38	I don't have it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u39	That can be provided for, I'm sure. If necessary by Mr Van Kent, although that is forbidden. But if he's fast, I haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u40	Ah, yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u41	Well, I don't remember...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u42	Sorry, Chairman. Was it a request to the government to provide structural cover for structural agreements resulting from a possible pension agreement? I had a laugh because of the sender: Mr. Van Kent. I am very positive about that. This has indeed been at the heart of the discussion in the negotiations on the pension agreement. As a cabinet, of course, we would have offered that a one-to-one link in its adaptation would become relevant in the context of 2025, which we discussed at the time. That's a long time ahead. There was also the question: it is about a lot of money, indicatively a few billion; do you have to deal with it now, or do you have to deal with it in a formation, with broad political support and with multiannual financial agreements? But Mr Van Kent is now asking that, if any agreements are made, they should also be provided with structural cover. That seems very sensible to me. That is always our policy. In this motion, therefore, I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u43	Then there is a question from Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes, Mr. Chairman. And excuse me, because it was not my motion, of course, but now the House's budget law is being turned upside down. The cabinet makes structural agreements, we put structural cover behind them. And we're not going to delegate that to the cabinet by means of a motion, so it appears to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u45	What I think is the use is when the cabinet makes proposals... Just in the order of things. We make agreements about the pension system. This probably includes agreements on the AOW, and perhaps other agreements on the RVU, which Mr Gijs van Dijk talked about. Then, of course, your Chamber will always expect me to do so, or at least the Minister of Finance will expect me to do so along with the coverage of those proposals. It is then up to your Chamber to agree. But I read Mr Van Kent's motion in such a way that there must be cover when you make agreements to spend extra money. These seem to me to be the budgetary and budgetary rules we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u46	Yes, as long as it's clear that we have the last word here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u47	The House of Representatives always has the last word. I wouldn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u48	The chairman can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u49	The SP always covers its proposals in a structural way. See our election programme, in which the AOW age at 65 is structurally covered. But aside from that... I do welcome the Minister's reaction to this motion, because we understand that this was a problem in the negotiations on a new pension agreement, because there were occasional money issues, such as the RVU levy and measures such as the freezing of the AOW age. If you make agreements about, for example, stopping working on time or letting go of the one-on-one coupling around the AOW age, we strongly believe that you have guaranteed it in the longer term as well. Then employers and employees will know for sure that this is being complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u50	Now I think there are two things that are mixed up. Then I get a little suspicious. The first point. After the collapse of the pension negotiations, a Buma motion was adopted. It says: look at different variants of the linking of the AOW age to life expectancy in the longer term, including the financial coverage for that. That is one of my ten points in the action plan. That's what the letter says. That is in line with the motion that is before us, namely that if you do a structural expenditure, you must also find structural cover for it. Then it is up to the Chamber, I say in the direction of Mr Van der Linde, to say whether or not she thinks it is sensible. Something else is the package that was on the table in November. This package was based on occasional expenditure, i.e. gradually increasing the AOW age. Together, this was a package of EUR 7 billion. I have agreed with the Minister of Finance on how that would be financed. It would be financed over a period of 15 years. This applies to the various arrangements contained in that package. Those are the rules of budget discipline. Those are the budgetary rules we agreed on. If you're gonna do an issue, you're gonna have to cover it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u51	I would like to conclude the debate quietly, so Mr Van Kent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u52	Then we agree. Of course, occasional measures should not want to be structuralally covered. But I was mostly concerned with the RVU tax. If you're gonna make an appointment about that, you're gonna have to cover it for an indefinite period of time, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u53	That was already part of the November agreements. The RVU levy is, of course, a structural expenditure. So you also have to provide structural coverage. We would have done the same in the plans we had then. Unfortunately, it never came to an agreement, so we have never been able to share it with your Chamber and never be able to submit it. The AOW increase consists partly of incidental expenses, because you are temporizing in the increase. These are incidental expenditure, not structural expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u54	The Minister's response still raises a single question, from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u55	Can we look forward to the research proposal for the one-off benefit and its timetable? Maybe you can do that by letter. I had asked that question in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u56	That was about the freedom of choice, that 10%. That's what I promised you in the AO. The timeline is in one month. In one month, the proposal will come your way. But it's also about the question of- and how-.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u57	But first the research proposal and then the research. We asked for the research proposal. I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u58	In my opinion, I said in the AA that I would send you a proposal which would properly explain both the question and the question of how to do it, so that we could have a quiet debate on whether this is desirable and in what way to do it, if it is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u59	All the way to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u60	That's right, but I'm asking who's doing the investigation. When's that gonna happen? Can we see the research question? I'm looking at the chairman. Who knows why the research question is sometimes quite important before the investigation gets there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u61	We do the research, the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs themselves, on the basis of previous research by Netspar and the Central Planning Bureau on these elements. This is public information, which can also be found on Netspar's and CPB's websites. It's not an external investigation. We did it ourselves. I will inform your Chamber within a month so that we can have a quiet debate about this and then make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-7.u63	We're going to vote on the motions on Tuesday. The Minister will be with us for a while.
