ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, Mr Van Dam has the floor on behalf of the CDA. He asked the Minister of Justice and Security about the message that pressure had been exerted on the MH17 investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. How can it be that in October 2014, my colleague Pieter Ommzigt has repeatedly called for an independent investigation into the operation of our national crisis organisation? How can it be that the then Minister of Security and Justice first wanted an own evaluation of the NCTV and then, under pressure from the Chamber, appointed an independent researcher, TU Twente? And how can it be that last Friday we have to learn that this NCTV was the very one who carried on that independent investigation? Perhaps the content of the conclusions has not changed, but they have interfered with the editors. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to MH17, we are always incredibly cautious in this Chamber. For every wrinkle, every inconvenience is painful for the next of kin, whom we must stand by. I therefore deeply regret that the involvement of the former head of NCTV in this independent investigation has gone so far. For the record, it's not about the criminal investigation. It is not a question of whether Russia or Ukraine or any other country has done anything. It's not about the airspace closing down. It was about the operation of our own crisis organisation. It was an investigation that focused on learning, just looking at how we did it as a country. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the Minister how this could have happened. That concerned officials make a statement and that they can see it, accord it and check for facts, that's simple. But I saw in the released documents the following e-mail pass by from the NCTV side. "I've seen the revised chapter" - Chapter 10 - the conclusions and recommendations - "I've seen the revised chapter." Looks fine. Good tone. You're gonna be okay." That kind of interference can't be true, can it? Can the Minister state what he is going to do to prevent this kind of thing from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr President, thank you. By means of a WOB request, the public administration has been requested to disclose the documents relating to the evaluation of the crisis management organisation of flight MH17. I want to make that clear once again. So it is not about this terrible disaster itself and its consequences, but about post-crisis crisis management. It is a sensitive subject, the MH17, and that is why I really want to explain clearly the process surrounding the preparation of that specific report. The evaluation was indeed done, as the member Van Dam says, by the University of Twente under the supervision of the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, the WODC. This led to a report of 9 December 2015. The WODC and the University of Twente both have no doubts about the independent implementation of the evaluation of the crisis organisation MH17, not then and still not today. Nor do I myself have any evidence that in this study the researchers have modified their findings or substantive conclusions on the basis of attempts to influence them. The documents show at what times and how there has been contact between the WODC, which thus supervised the investigation, and the relevant policy direction, the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security. The draft conclusions of the report have indeed been modified. This is merely an editorial adjustment of the tone of a few passages. This was not done at the request of the NCTV. From a scientific point of view, the WODC indicated to the researchers that the conclusions were not in line with the texts in the previous chapters, the research chapters. It was ultimately up to the researchers themselves to assess whether this adaptation of the text was necessary. The researchers explicitly state that the content of the report has not been adapted. Mr. Chairman. It is well known that in the past the boundaries in the contacts between policy and research were less acute and that it was not well marked what should or should not be discussed with each other. I've had independent investigations on that. Following the completion of the last investigation, I sent a letter to your Chamber on 15 January, stating what measures have already been taken to prevent this type of thing in the future and which we will take. I understand that we will discuss this with each other on 6 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u5	Do I hear the minister say it wasn't the NCTV, but the WODC and it's less serious? That's a very special reasoning. And what about Minister Dekker's statement last Friday that "nothing human is a civil servant strange"? Yeah, I'm not human either, but is that the norm you have to look at this kind of thing? Please also take the Minister's own answer. On the question "Did the NCTV comment on the investigation on behalf of the Minister?" said the Minister: "No, these comments were made in their own right." Do we have officials who say things in their own right? And what about the ministerial responsibility for that? So I would like to hear more specifically from the Minister what the role and responsibility curve of the chief of NCTV is in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have already described the role of the WODC, but once again, the WODC had the scientific supervision of the research and pointed out to the researchers that the conclusions on a number of points of tone did not correspond to what they had written and established in the substantive chapters. It was then up to the researchers to do what had to be done. The comment "on its own initiative' indicates that the comments were "the factual question of the WOB applicant GeenStijl', who had not been instructed in advance or motivated by the Minister at the time. But, and then I come to the other point, a ruler is a politician, and in this case I am responsible for the officials; that is what I am going to stand for. A ruler also goes into your home, which is a fixed pattern, not into the functioning or emotions of individual officials. You can call me on that and also on the functioning. I repeat once again: in the past, it has simply proved that the limits between policy and research were not clearly defined. I have drawn attention to this by conducting investigations into it, and I am taking measures to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u7	Justice and Security is an area where bumpy things generally happen. The police don't rush out to bring people a bunch of flowers; then something's going on. And you don't meet an attorney at the moments in your life that you're the happiest. So it's crisis situations. Tomorrow there may be another situation that needs to be examined, and I would like to hear from the Minister what guarantees he can give the Chamber that there will be genuinely independent investigations if such a situation arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u8	Again, in this case, the researchers have said at the time and now that they fully support their conclusions and that they have been able to do their research independently. That's one. Two, in the letter to the three WODC research reports in January, and so I say to the people in the gallery that they have examined whether the boundaries between policy and research are clear: things need to be improved. I have already taken a number of measures in this area over the past year, and I am taking further measures. I would like to hear from your Chamber on 6 March how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u9	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u10	We will certainly involve this issue in the debate on 6 March. The WODC is not just about policy investigations, it is also about investigating living issues that need to be evaluated, crises. The aftertaste I have on this subject is that we still have a number of additional rules to agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u12	We must be able to rely on independent research: fair, critical, uncensored and not politically manipulated. This is yet another time that it appears that the Ministry is exerting pressure on independent research. We are indeed going to debate this. What surprises me is that last Friday, Minister Dekker at the end of the Council of Ministers said: 'I can imagine how this went, because of human involvement', 'nothing human is strange to us' and 'he was working so intensively on it'. The question is, why would you justify this? Is the Minister prepared to withdraw from that and say: we stand for independent science? Is he willing to confirm the norm that you're just gonna stay away from independent scientific research, period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u13	I would like to stress the point that Mr Van Nispen concludes: independent research must be independent research. It is for this reason that I said last December, following the broadcast of Newsuur on a whistleblower's report, that we need to have a thorough independent examination of whether these boundaries between policy and research work properly in my ministry or whether it really can be improved. Its conclusions became clear in the course of 2018 and early 2019. We need to use improvement measures there. Some we had deployed, but have decided to do more and it may be that your Chamber has a number of suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u14	I also found that first reaction of the cabinet not very chic, by talking about Mr Schoof and his personal title, while everyone knows that he had just done so from his office. I also found Minister Dekker's second reaction shocking, talking about emotions, fatigue and involvement, and in that way simply condoned what happened. That brings me to my question. Hundreds of pages of WOB have been handed in. I just want a letter from the cabinet about every interference there has been from NCTV, from JenV, from AZ and from Foreign Affairs with the research on the scope and selection of the research institute in this. In three weeks, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u15	It might be good to emphasise the following. I am the person responsible, and I think it is not only perfectly right, but a being of our democracy, that your Chamber should address me sharply and critically on what is happening in my ministry. I have to stand for that, and if there are things that haven't gone as they should have gone, that's my responsibility. In the meantime, I believe that the rules on where a policy department can interfere with independent research and where research should be accountable should be much better put together, and I have already recognised this in the debate with your Chamber last January, and this is also reflected in the independent research that has now been completed. Finally, I would like to point out that the disputed e-mails that we are talking about are all after the final delivery of the report. I think it would be a good idea to stress that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u16	And Mr Sjoerdsma's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u17	What can be made public has now been made public in the context of the WOB request. I have emphasised very clearly that in the first place the researchers themselves say: listen, we have just been able to write down what we wanted and we have been able to investigate what we wanted. Secondly, the WODC, which supervised the investigation, says that it feels that this can certainly pass the test of independence. Nor do I myself have any other indication that there would have been any undue influence on the investigation, which would have had a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Really, everyone has two questions. Then I'll go see Mrs. Chicken. Do you have a point of order? Still, I'm gonna go see Mrs. Chicken first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u19	A point of order is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u20	You can always do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u21	No, you can't do that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u22	Madam President, I think I can make a point of order, and if I would like to make a point of order, this goes ahead of the ordinary rules, of course, with apologies to Mrs Kuik, who wanted to ask another question. I'm asking you an information question. Madam President, I think it is a good practice in this house that information questions are simply honoured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u23	I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u24	I would therefore like to receive a letter from this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yes, it is not a point of order, it is the question you have asked and which has not been answered. Or you disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u26	If Mr Sjoerdsma does not consider it sufficient that I have emphasised this once again, I would like to say that I will ensure that such a letter is sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u27	Okay. Then this is an answer to the question. But that has nothing to do with the order of business. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u28	Independent research can only exist, confidence in independent research can only exist if there are no doubts as to how such an investigation is conducted, that it is integrity and that the Ministry and the Minister also operate in integrity. This is yet another time that there are doubts about an independent investigation and the way in which people from the Ministry have influenced it. It is not an incident, it is almost a pattern and I have no confidence that the culture of influence has now broken. We will continue to debate this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u29	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u30	My specific question, following on from the question put by Mr Sjoerdsma, is: why is it not now standard for you to see in each independent investigation what changes have been requested in the draft report? We had that discussion after the Mali accident, which was horrible...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u31	Clear, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u32	I think this should just be the standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u33	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u34	The point is, of course, that there must be the freedom for all those involved in the research to comment on concepts. The essence of independent research is that those who do the research ultimately say: what is in this report are my or our independent findings. That is why, moreover, this applies to the kind of research we are talking about here, but that also applies in general to scientific research, concepts which are not released in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u35	I am starting to get a little annoyed by the way in which the cabinet, both the Minister for Legal Protection, Mr Dekker, and also Mr Grapperhaus, responds to this. When the minister says, "you know, he was interfering, but it was purely editorial," I think, "is that gentleman at the NCTV we put there a landicus? Does he know how to speak? My question to the Minister is: be clear, be open, what did the NCTV, Mr Schoof, fear in that piece? What did he think was too hard and for whom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u36	I have already said twice that it was not the NCTV that commented on the formulation of the conclusions, but the research centre that supervised the investigation. That's the WODC, the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u37	I think it is wise that the Minister has just promised a letter to the Chamber, in which the facts are put right. This is not least important because I have seen that a request for a debate on this subject is immediately being passed on to the regulation. Then I think such a letter is crucial. Actually, this is what I'm talking about. The Minister says: people are asked to comment on conclusions contained in the report. What I don't quite understand is "Would the Minister like to explain?" Why people are asked to comment on findings, on conclusions. Look, there's a commentary asking, "Does it beat what I've recorded, what I've registered for your person?" I get it. But are you being asked to comment on conclusions? Because that's ultimately up to the independent investigators, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u38	It is not only common in the academic world but even state of the art that such an investigation has an advisory committee. That guidance committee assesses the progress, assesses whether the researchers are indeed within the research mission and whether certain scientific developments have not yet been discussed. That's why there's a guidance committee. In this case, I keep repeating it, rather than commenting on the policy conclusion from those involved. It has been pointed out from the scientific authority that supervised, the WODC, that the conclusions did not correspond one hundred percent to what was in the chapters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
