ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	We will continue the debate on the CBR immediately. There are eight speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Van Aalst of the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him. I would like to inform you that after the first term I shall suspend the Chamber for lunch. I call Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have only just discussed one problem of the CBR or the following problem is emerging. After the wretched misery about the health statements and the application or renewal of driving licences, the millions wasted ICT of the CBR now comes to light. The PVV was seriously shocked by the real costs of the failed ICT project, which should have been completed by 2016. This became clear after a report by ZEMBLA and prompted the PVV to request this debate. The cost was originally budgeted at 7 million. In 2017, this had already increased to 11 million. The cost has now risen to over 38 million and the end does not seem to be in sight. The PVV is bewildered by the fact that the Minister was not aware of this development. How could she not have been informed? If your own Zbo withholds such important information from you, it either has a lot of guts, or has absolutely no respect for you. The investigation announced by the Minister about the security of customer data does not, of course, provide an answer. Can the Minister tell us why she is so in the dark when it comes to the CBR? Is this inherent in the functioning of a Zbo, because then we will get something for ourselves with ProRail, for example? Or was the Minister aware of what was going on, but did she not inform the Chamber? Was the red hair so on the jaws that she didn't dare to bring this out again? The PVV would like a clear answer from the Minister. Then we read that this new ICT system also made a number of employees redundant. Did they get kicked out of here? In the meantime, are they doing other useful work or have they, like the director, been promoted to a useless position? Speaking of which, is the director responsible for this mess still working in her new position in the jobs carousel? Has the Minister already dumped the Supervisory Board, or is the PVV going to have to retable its motion as regards the expulsion of the Supervisory Board? At present, the CBR states that there must first be a Declaration of Suitability, the so-called VvG, before a practical examination can be made. Riding school holders who get hurt by this, are playing cards that there is no legal basis for this. They therefore wonder why this requirement is made by the CBR. For the safety of the examiner it cannot be, because an interim test does not require the VvG. Can the Minister explain why the CBR applies this rule and appeal to the CBR if necessary? If this Statement of Suitability becomes separate from the CBR, there will be much more room for exams. Then the CBR can simply focus on the core task, namely examining and taking exams. Then the next question to the Minister. I have here two screenshots of the website of the CBR; both were made on the same day. Both screenshots show how an appointment for a theory exam can be scheduled. The big difference is that according to one website, the private person can already arrive on 10 July, while if a driving school applies for it, it can only be done on 2 August, so only six weeks later. How is this possible, the PVV asks the minister. Is there an active policy at the CBR to deliberately plan agreements made by driving schools later? The PVV has received a lot of input from driving school holders who are very dissatisfied with the CBR, so much is clear. The evil image that has arisen is that of a CBR that is hostile to them. For example, an e-mail has been sent to us in which it becomes clear that employees of the CBR exam candidates of critical driving school holders have to take hard action. Can the Minister explain these mafia practices? How on earth is it possible that the CBR is dealing with driving school holders in this way? How can an organisation which has as its core task the conduct of driving tests start a driving course itself? I'm talking, of course, about the RIS, the Driving Training In Steps. What is the need for the CBR to provide this training? Isn't this gonna give you some unfair competition? Exams are scheduled faster and the butcher here approves his own meat. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, the PVV wants to know how responsibly the Minister finds its coulance scheme for extending driving licences for 75-year-olds. Of course it's a sympathetic idea, but it's straight-up panic football with consequences for everyone on the road. The core of the problem is not being addressed. This reflects the total bankruptcy of the Minister's control over the CBR. Mr. Chairman. We must not use the broom through this organization, but with the demolition ball. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr Laçin, brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	In conclusion to Mr Van Aalst's last point, I would like to touch on the substance of the problem. There are problems with medical examinations and driving licences are not renewed in time. At the same time, there is a reorganisation process within the CBR that allows doctors to leave. Does Mr Van Aalst agree with me that we should stop this reorganisation until we have solved all the problems so that the doctors who are now running away because they will be cut off? Does the PVV agree with me that we should stop this reorganisation and the cuts until we have solved all the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	I understand the SP's question. Only, in my view, there are so many problems that I do not know what measures we are taking. The only thing I would like to say is that we now find that the CBR should be a driving trainer and should limit itself to that. When I look at the medical statements, I would suggest that the CBR is limited to taking the driving tests and that an external party does the medical examinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	One more question from Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	Well, if it's limited to one question, I don't know yet. I do have the next question. Mr Van Aalst made it very clear that the coulance regime was a temporary solution and that it did not provide a structural solution. What structural solutions does Mr Van Aalst see now in order to put a definitive stop to the problems currently facing the CBR in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	The PVV thinks it does so in two ways. It is the story that I just told Mr Laçin: let's get rid of that medical examination at the CBR and let's programme it externally so that the CBR can focus on his work, namely the issue of driving licences and the testing for that. On the other hand, the CBR simply needs to be put in order. As long as it stays a mess, we won't get anywhere. Then we can create a coulance regulation now, but so many people are or are not covered by it that I do not think this will solve anything. I think we're gonna ignore the problem that it's just a mess. It needs to be cleaned up first. The PVV does not participate in this kind of panic football.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	A question, though. Mr. Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	That raises a question for me. I hear Mr Van Aalst say that we should take that task away from the CBR. Does he have some kind of magic wand to create a new institution? How does the PVV see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	No. There are a lot of medical experts who can test you. I note that this is now happening within the CBR and that this is slowing down. So why not: just take an exam, people pick up their license, but that can only be issued after the medical certificate has been issued. If we do that externally, we'll lose the misery at the CBR. It's getting involved in medical matters now. The PVV notes that it is not focused on this. We think you're gonna find a solution by pulling those two things apart. Those medical specialists are there externally; that is not the problem. We can arrange that tomorrow if we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	Short closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	I understand from the Minister that two things are at stake. You do need a medical statement that shows how fit you are and how you stand in life. But he doesn't say anything about your driving skills. You'll let a doctor see if anyone has two legs and not Stevie Wonder's vision, but that doesn't say anything about driving. Your solution will therefore make sure that road safety is only increased by yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, no, then my colleague, Mr Schonis, did not understand. What I'm saying is that people are now busy with the medical statement and then have to go through the mill of the CBR. I propose that the driving licence test should simply be carried out by the CBR and that the medical certificate should not apply at all, and that the licence should be issued only if the medical certificate, which can also be obtained externally, is included. People can pick up their driver's license. Then we will not find ourselves in the situation we are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	Very good. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Laçin of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. The SP has been pushing for ten years to solve the ongoing problems at the CBR. The fact that these problems are far from being resolved was shown in February during the round table and in the debate in March of this year: huge waiting times at the customer service, thousands of people waiting for a medical examination and whose driving licence is not renewed in time and completely arbitrary by doctors at the medical examinations themselves. Three months ago, the Minister and the CBR assured us that the problems would be resolved by the end of this year, but yesterday the Minister returned to this commitment in her letter. And that was to be expected. As I said in March, the problems are too big and too structural to be resolved so quickly. First of all, the medical fitness to drive. It is good that there is now a solution for the 75-plussers. We're happy about that, too. But the situation at the CBR remains worrying. There is considerable investment in customer service so that people can be heard, but while investments are being made in the operators, the doctors who have to make the medical assessment for the CBR are being cut. The reorganisation project Driving Suitability at the steering wheel leads to a failure. The Galan Group also writes about the problems of reorganisation, but does not address the problems caused by the reorganisation much more extensively. Doctors leave the CBR massively because they don't want to be cut off. New doctors receive a two-day ram course after which they should be able to perform a medical assessment. Everyone understands that that is not possible, of course, but it doesn't matter. The task is, after all, to approve in the event of doubt and thus to eliminate the backlogs. The program Driving Suitability at the Steering Board has the effect that there are now people on the road who do not belong there. This information comes directly from the CBR itself, from people who are not allowed to speak about it but who no longer want to keep their mouths shut because of security. The Minister himself confirmed in her letter yesterday that road safety was under pressure. Mr. Chairman. Since the broadcast of ZEMBLA, the Minister has been informed on a monthly basis. Does it recognise the image that is being sketched and, if so, why is the Chamber not informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	Let's just get back to the previous point. I think the chairman was just making out what he wanted for lunch. A question to my colleague Laçin of the SP. You're talking about the medics getting ready. We've had a discussion about the KNRM and the salvagers. One's gonna save and the other's gonna mountain. Do you agree with me that it might be useful to do the same at the CBR? Then we'll just put the medics outside. They deal with medical matters and the CBR confines itself to passing driving tests. That's what it was created for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	No, I don't entirely agree with that. Why not? The doctors who do those tests are already outsiders. It's about the medical evaluators. They are employed and they approve the forms of those doctors. I think that's fine. Here's what I'm worried about. I understand that the regular training of a medical assessor normally lasts three to four months, but now training is given within two days, after which people have to work. I really don't think that's possible. That is why I am asking the Minister this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	That's exactly my point. That's why I'm saying to just get those evaluators out of there. Because if you use them this way, they have no added value. You say training. We say delete. Just let the medics...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the ICT problems. Again, the Galan Group writes superficially about this. It is written that OPUS, the new IT system, is not yet working properly and that only later than expected can benefit from the benefits that OPUS will bring. The SP, again from people at the CBR itself, has heard very disturbing noises about the enormous work stock. In particular, the new OPUS system is filling up. This is information that must also be reported to the Minister on a monthly basis, in the context of the enhanced supervision under which the CBR is now under. Here again, I am surprised that we do not get the information on catching up in OPUS from the Minister. Can the Minister tell me what the delay was on June 1st? How many outstanding medical records were there in the two systems, both in OPUS and in the old system SCOOP? Can it explain why in the new system, which should eliminate the backlogs, there is now a huge backlog? The Minister writes that the supervision of the doctors, to which I referred in the AO three months ago, is satisfactory, whereas we have actually concluded that, in addition to regular supervision, there is absolutely no supervision of the doctors who carry out the inspections for the CBR. Can the Minister explain this and explain how it can improve this? Finally, Mr President. As far as we are concerned, the situation at the CBR is unsustainable and creates unsafe situations on the road. The CBR is under enhanced supervision, but I would like to hear from this Minister what arguments she has to make to convince us that he should not be placed under enhanced supervision. What is it going to do to solve the problems as quickly as possible? With regard to the budget overrun in the ICT problems, I agree with the questions put by Mr Van Aalst. This is worrying. Did the Minister know about this? Can she inform us about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. Then Mr von Martels of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the letter we received at 11 p.m. last night, the tone of our contribution may be different from what was originally intended. It would otherwise have been very firm. A coulance scheme proposed by D66 and the CDA seems to be in place. That's a good thing. I'd like to give the Minister the following message: get it done quickly. As far as we are concerned, texts like "against this background I am investigating the possibility" are still far too non-binding. All signals are green. It's good to take care of it right now and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	Right on the first point. Perhaps you should have gone a little faster, because I do not think that the motion you tabled with Mr Schonis is being implemented. The motion you filed with Mr. Schonis...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	The motion tabled by Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	The motion tabled by Mr von Martels, together with Mr Schonis, called for a coulance regulation for all people. I think this is only about the 75-year-olds, so I think that Mr von Martels can still take a firm tone towards the Minister, because his motion is not being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	Fortunately, I can determine my own tone, and in what form I bring it forward. I have also said: a coulance arrangement as we have proposed. I didn't say the coulance arrangement we proposed. That is an essential difference. That is why I am so curious about the Minister's reply later. At what time and in what way will the Minister set up a coulance scheme? That's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	This arrangement, as we were told last night, is only a drop in the ocean for 75-year-olds. We were not in favour of Mr von Martels' motion for a resolution because it puts road safety at risk, but this certainly does not do justice to the operative part of that motion. I think Mr von Martels should still be a little more critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u29	Fortunately, in my speech, I still have the opportunity to demonstrate that, in our opinion, road safety is not at stake. It is not really the case that when someone who is now 74 and turns 75 next week, you can say at once: well, boys, now everything goes wrong, road safety is at stake. There is absolutely no question of that. That is why a coulance scheme is certainly justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u30	I am surprised that in this CBR dossier we have a CDA spokesperson here who says 'all signals are green', while yesterday's letter shows that all signals are red. In that letter, the Minister states that there are now two reasons why road safety can be put under pressure. And we have the CDA here that claims that this is not true at all and that road safety is not at all at stake. Can the CDA argue that? Does the CDA not agree with the Minister's words in her letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u31	I'm glad you did. All signals are on red for the CBR but for a coulance control all signals are on green, which I have just put forward. In the speech that follows, I will make it clear that we are really serious about this and that the CBR still has a lot to do. To be continued, Chairman. A coulance arrangement could bring the peace that everyone's been asking for. Not only with the thousands of victims but also with the employees of the CBR itself. There is no doubt about the commitment of the latter, but they are currently faced with an unbearable task. The CBR has organised its own vulnerability in recent years, with all the consequences. For a structural solution, however, more is needed and a different view is needed. Fortunately, the Minister also sees this, because the letter in question refers to a so-called risk-oriented approach. For the CBR, if you keep doing what you did, you'll get what you got. The long lead times created by the medical examination itself and the subsequent assessment of the inspection report or the medical reports by the CBR are one of the core problems of the CBR. At the CDA we have wondered whether a mandatory age-related inspection is really important for road safety. The answer is offered to us on a platter by SWOV and says: no. As early as 2011, SWOV writes that research in several European countries has not shown that in countries with mandatory age-based checks the road safety of older drivers is better than in countries that do not know this obligation. So SWOV's recommendations are crystal clear. Finish the age-related inspection. As far as we have understood, Belgium, Germany, Sweden and France do not have age-related medical examinations and in fact they are not known in the United Kingdom either. The CDA therefore proposes to seriously consider whether it is wise to follow the recommendation of SWOV to abolish the age-related inspection. The CDA considers it important that an alternative system should be put in place to ensure both road safety and medical professional secrecy. How does the Minister look at our plan to find an alternative system to reduce the problems at the CBR?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u32	I suddenly see an ally in the fight against age discrimination. So I feel a motion from CDA and 50PLUS coming up. If the Minister does not respond positively, is the CDA prepared to actually add butter to the fish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u33	Sure. My motion is already ready and if it were supported by 50PLUS it would be worth a sweet thing to me. In the broadcast of ZEMBLA problems were also revealed at the CBR. The conclusion was significant. Once again, an ICT system in which the government has been involved goes wrong. How come the project was published too late on the national ICT dashboard? How is it that the costs have increased so much and has the Minister made every effort to inform the Chamber in good time? Can the Minister promise that sufficient measures have been taken to ensure the confidentiality of all residents' data so that they do not fall into the wrong hands? What's it gonna cost? In the report of the Galan Group published last week, I read the following: appropriate financial coverage is provided in consultation with the Ministry of IenW. Then I've already come up with some frightened suspicions. Minister, what amounts are we talking about? In the corridors there is talk of amounts of 10 million and more. Is that true? Isn't it? So much for my input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you. Then Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u35	There's another interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yes, there is another question from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u37	I do have another question. Mr. Von Martels said it was CDA serious. Well, I haven't been able to conclude that, but okay. My question is about the medical examinations. There's a lot of trouble with that. I have just added that the regular training for a medical assessor at the CBR lasts three to four months, and that two-day courses are now being offered so that people can get started right away and overcome the backlogs. Does the CDA agree with me that this is simply not desirable and that this can also cause dangerous situations on the road?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u38	So we say very clearly: cancel the age-related inspection, because then we will not be dealing with this kind of situation at all. Then you'll see that doctors can handle it well and that fewer medical examiners are needed as well. In this sense, what we are proposing offers a structural solution. What Mr Laçin is now putting forward offers only a temporary solution. It does indicate what the problem is at present, and we are therefore offering a solution to this problem. And if you introduce that coulance scheme, that also means that the CBR can get the rest it needs. In this sense, we think it is serious enough what is happening, I can agree, but we are looking at what we can do in the long term in order to deal with the problems definitively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u39	We need to separate two things. Mr von Martels does not answer my question in a very long answer. You have an idea...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr von Martels has an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr von Martels has the idea of abolishing age discrimination. I'll take a good look at that. But the problems I'm naming are playing now. People are now being trained in two days, normally taking three to four months. And these people are judging all those forms from those medical examinations. Does the CDA agree with me that that is undesirable and unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u42	It is not, of course, that I know exactly what is happening behind the scenes when it comes to those inspections. But if Mr. Laçin brings that up, that's something to pay attention to. We need to see whether it is indeed desirable to change that. But if you conclude that, you have to look at how you're gonna deal with that in the future. That's why I'm putting forward a different approach than the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr von Martels outlined it here as if his solution to abolishing the scheme for 75-year-olds or for older people... He pretends that the coulance regulation and the total abolition of that inspection is the solution. However, Mr Von Martels does of course overlook the fact that the medical assessment is not only intended for older people, but that many more people need to be tested by medical doctors, including ADHD patients and people with all kinds of other medical indications. So where does Mr von Martels get the idea that if we do this and abolish the testing for the elderly, we will have solved all the problems within the CBR?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u44	It's not like I'm gonna pass the medical exam, because medical examinations will always be necessary. It's just about the question: what time do you do that? And if there's any indication that it's going to have to happen... It's happening now: if you're younger than 75, it's happening all the time, so that's just gonna be the picture in the future. That's what we're still here for. It is therefore really not possible for the medical examinations to be omitted. On the contrary, that goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u45	As regards Mr von Martels' solution, as with the Minister's solution, I note that both are on a glowing note which will certainly not solve the problems. It is part of the solution, but certainly not the solution. So I am also counting on the CDA's thinking capacity, as was the case with the VVD this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u46	I would like to advise Mr Van Aalst to re-read the SWOV report from 2011, because it is clear what the backgrounds are and what they are intended to be. And if an organ like SWOV brings this up, that is something to look at seriously. The conclusions are crystal clear and, as far as I am concerned, commendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u47	You're continuing. Oh, you're done; very good! Oh, yes, as already announced: Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, today we are again discussing the problems at the Central Bureau of Driving Certificates, or the CBR. Many tens of thousands of people have been waiting, sometimes for months, for their driving licences to be renewed. This morning we could read about Krijn and Astrid Lere from Terneuzen in a newspaper. Their campervan vacation threatened to fall into the water, because the CBR could not deliver the requested driver's license for both of them in time. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by commenting on the change in the system announced by the Minister in her letter last night, and I shall then deal with the solution put forward by the Minister in her letter. The Minister speaks in her letter about a possible change in the system for the approval of older people on driving licences. The reason for this is that Dutch society is ageing. Mr von Martels referred to this earlier. If we want to keep the number of people to be assessed by the CBR workable, not least for the CBR itself, then we need to seriously consider how to limit the influx. D66 therefore welcomes the change in the system announced by the Minister. But if the Minister is going to do so, is she prepared to look at the current list of medical conditions in the Regulations for suitability 2000? These include, for example, cases such as ADHD and ADD, which are currently not certain or have not yet been conclusively proven to have a negative effect on the ability to drive. Then, Mr President, I come to by far the most important point in the Minister's letter: a solution, at least for the short term, so that large groups of people do not get into trouble because of a expired driving licence. The Minister writes in her letter that she wants to make an administrative adjustment for the category 75+. In fact, the Minister wants everyone with their current driving licence to be allowed to go on the road for a year longer. That sounds like a great solution. But, Minister, what are you going to do for other groups of citizens who are also in trouble? For example, think of young people who still have to pass their first driving licence and cannot take a driving test. I'm referring to the episode of #BOOS with Tim Hofman from a week and a half ago. The Minister also indicated that the Regulation on driving licences should be amended accordingly. That's gonna take six to nine months, she says. In fact, the Minister writes that she does not want to amend the Rules of Procedure until she has worked out some points. Is there even a solution? Minister, how much time do you think you need for that investigation? Do you agree with D66 that this investigation should certainly not last longer than a week or two? Surely we can assume that, as a Chamber, we can look forward to the results of that survey before our summer recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u49	I would like to take Mr Schonis with me. We're trying to find all kinds of solutions. The PVV is also looking for a solution. Mr Schonis will know the harrowing cases himself. As MPs, we have received a special address where we can submit our files. I've brought five cases to this address. They were solved within 24 hours. How does Mr Schonis feel about this? This is outrageous! This actually shows how rotten the system is!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u50	I agree with Mr Van Aalst that it is remarkable that when emails are sent either from the Chamber or from the Ministry to the CBR, they immediately get a reaction while other people sometimes have to wait months for a reaction at all. I agree with Mr Van Aalst. In recent weeks' letters it is also clear that there are considerable delays in the CBR. That is simply not acceptable, and I fully agree with Mr Van Aalst. But I'm looking for a structural solution. It is not possible that we will then have to pay the priorities at the CBR via our e-mail address.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u51	If, then, as Members of Parliament, we are apparently able to do so, then this is simply a matter of capacity. Then we don't have to wait nine months, then we just have to solve the capacity problem and put people there? Does Mr Schonis agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u52	In part, I agree with you, and in part, I do not. Those six to nine months I'm referring to, that's what the minister himself comes up with. She says: my solution, if I import it already... In a small debate between Mr Laçin and Mr Von Martels, it was pointed out that the signals were green. Well, I think the signal's on orange. And if I understand the Minister correctly, there is still no definitive solution at all. But, of course, we have to work towards that. I would like to emphasise that. Fine. Then I will come to the point of the solution. As has just been pointed out, Mr von Martels and I put forward a temporary solution in a motion adopted by the Chamber last month in the form of a coulance regulation. In the letter sent by the Minister yesterday, I see a part of that coulance arrangement. In any case, I think I can read this in the passage which states that the Minister wants to examine whether, in anticipation of this announced amendment of the law, it is possible to work in accordance with the new legislation. Can the Minister undertake that the introduction of that coulance scheme is part of the investigation which she is to launch? And can it also promise that the coulance scheme will also apply to categories of motorists other than 75-plussers? Because, of course, we need to look wider than just the 75-plussers. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish up. If you're gonna take a driving test, you're gonna have to mirror a lot. That's what my driving instructor taught me at least 20 years ago when I had to drive off. As a political director, you also have to mirror a lot. When people get into trouble without their fault by a failing government agency such as the CBR, the minister must act. The letter shows that there is a beginning to a solution. I hope that the Minister will look at a solution for all road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u53	Thank you. Mr Remco Dijkstra from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr. Chairman. The stories of many people without a driver's license are poignant. Those people weren't mobile at once. They're losing their freedom. Fortunately, harrowing cases have sometimes been helped faster, but that must of course be done for everyone; it has already been mentioned. My question to the Minister is this: how many of the victims are left? How will they be helped, in what time? Because without mobility, no freedom. At the moment there is also too little medical expertise at the CBR to be able to assess the medical statements quickly enough. Earlier, I received a motion to increase medical assessment capacity at the CBR. How's that going? Have people actually been hired? Are they even there at all? The fact that people have to wait a long time does not fit well with a customer-oriented organisation. The VVD thinks that you should have a quick answer and I find four months, or 90 days, what is it really, I also see confusion there in.... for quite a long time now. The CBR needs to deliver better performance. The Minister states in her letter last night that she wants to work towards a solution to at least give a very large group an exemption position. I think that is a fair solution, but of course it is not a structural solution. Does the Minister share that with me? So there's more to it. By the way, when will the licence register which is being discussed be ready? And when is the legal process to get there going well? Mr. Chairman. There have been problems with the CBR for a long time. The VVD wants order at the CBR. Besides, everyone in this room wants to. From mid 2018, the working stock increased considerably. There were major problems with the accessibility of customer service. One in five finally came through; that's bizarre. Partly because of new applications and of course because of the media attention people became worried and it only became more. It resulted in long lead times and meanwhile there were the cost overruns of the ICT system. It's all connected. Actually, from scratch, right from the start, you'd like to build something new instead of sticking patches. I would therefore like to be able to question the method of working. The active communication with monitors of the expiry date of driving licences, to make the bet first, new deployment for the new system and more digital, it is all necessary, but it assumes that you will improve the existing one. Is that even the way? Are there not other solutions in the process conceivable? I'm sure it can be more modern and innovative while the store just goes crazy. Because if Bol.com can do it, why can't the CBR?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u55	The VVD has so far been still opposed to a coulance scheme. Has the VVD, Mr Dijkstra, realised that this is necessary to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u56	There are two major differences from the coulance control you introduced. My concerns were mainly about liability. I read that a solution has now been found and an appointment has been made with the Alliance of Insurers. I think that's a very important one, because you don't want the people of the rain in the drip. The second is the observation that the report also states that there was no prospect of improvement that the working stock would really have gone to normal proportions at the end of the year. So you have to intervene now for a very large group of people: the 74-year-olds and 364-days that are tomorrow's birthday and that are fine, that are healthy, that meet a number of criteria. Why wouldn't they be able to drive tomorrow when they can today? While medically speaking, nothing has changed. So I think it's a good thing that the big group gets filtered out, but it's not a structural solution yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u57	I am pleased to note that there is some progressive insight in the VVD. Is this due to the report of the Galan Group, or have other insights brought the VVD to this insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u58	The report has certainly been helpful, but it concerns in particular the Minister's observation that it can no longer be done, that you have to do something. You cannot wait, because we would have had the same problem in September, October, November. You have to do something now to actually take those steps. If it takes too long, other solutions are necessary. I think it is very important that we have also spoken with the insurers. Again, people shouldn't come from the rain in the drip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr Dijkstra wants to clean up. That's what the PVV wants. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me that we should start at zero? The Supervisory Board praised the Chief Executive, but he made a mess of it. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me that we should also make room for the supervisory board?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u60	You want to clean up on your own. You want to make a new sketch. You'd do that in the ideal situation, but in this case we're dealing with 600,000 customer contacts and a working stock that relates to 30,000 customers. Those are a lot of numbers, so you can't say now: I'm going to build something new. In the meantime, the store has to go crazy. So it's an illusion that you can start with something new. You need to see how you can improve the existing in the short term, but I am willing to see how we can organise the process differently for the longer term; also with the doctors. The way things are going, it's all too long before it's solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u61	Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me that this Chamber is dependent on the Supervisory Board for its controlling role? If the Supervisory Board refuses to answer to the MPs, then it's just exit, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u62	Yeah, that was a very sloppy one. I agree with Mr Van Aalst. That's what we noticed at the round table. After that, they've been there. We've spoken to them together, too, but the people are only a little short. Sending away people who haven't been there since August, I don't know if that's the best solution. Rest in the tent is also one of the opinions in the report. It doesn't help if we're making tough talk. Let us look together at what is real and what is a longer-term solution. Most of the problems arose from the transition to the new ICT systems. The government doesn't have a good reputation for that. This is an ultimate and unique example. The project appears to be five times more expensive than originally planned. The project was also not completed by the deadline set. It's tendered through an hour's bill, when I read it like that. That's very unwise. You can see that now, because it still doesn't work as intended. That's very bad. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Is there anything else she can do? Two more points. I find it strange that driving schools, including CBR customers, should not be able to access the website of the CBR for administrative tasks. It's closed in the evenings and weekends. Why is something digitally closed? That reminds me of the example of that Internet party. I'm expecting something else, but is that how it's going with the tests? Are they closed, too? What about the administrative procedures? When you're closed on the weekends, you don't have a lot of work on Mondays, but then everyone comes and people are on hold for two hours. It can't be. Does the door actually close at 5:00? Is everything quiet on the weekends? If there are such delays, why not continue working day and night to solve the problems? People are entitled to that, because people are in uncertainty. Should we lie in front of the door with a camera if necessary to see if people are leaving too early? That's weird and drunk, isn't it? I would like to know from the Minister how she is going to report on the progress of the improvements to us, how she is going to involve the Chamber, and how she is going to ensure that costs do not get any further out of hand, because we need to save society new misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u63	How does the VVD view the CDA plan regarding the abolition of age-related testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u64	During the preparation of this story I also dived into the 2011 report of the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid, the SWOV. At the time, it was chosen to raise the age from 70 to 75 years, but one of the advice was to release it and look much more at the condition of people, perhaps at a younger age. In the end, it's about driving. A 75-year-old guy can drive as well as a 74-year-old guy and a 80-year-old guy probably can. It doesn't have much to do with age, but much more with how you are and whether you have medical conditions. We certainly need to explore the options in this respect. I also like to hear the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u65	Let me touch on that point of road safety. This often comes back to this debate: it still has to be safe in traffic. But how does Mr Dijkstra view it? The Minister writes in her letter that if people have to wait a long time for the driver's license, they simply don't fill in the health questions at all. When you rig a system that doesn't work, you just create false security, don't you? Doesn't the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u66	What you see because of the long waiting times is that it pays to actually be a little sneaky and not completely honest. Do you have a condition? No, no, no, no, no. You'll fly right through it, automatically. But yes, if you do have a condition and then have misery and are held liable, the damage is of course much greater. But it is one of the arguments in yesterday's letter that you should not have it. That's fraud, and it can't be. We shouldn't want that with each other either. It certainly does not improve road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u67	I conclude that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u68	That Mr Dijkstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u69	I conclude that Mr Dijkstra agrees with me that we need a reform of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u70	Yeah, we're definitely gonna look at all those aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Brenk from the 50PLUS group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. I thought during the preparation of this debate: I can get my previous input back, because that much has not changed. But suddenly there's a solution to the whole problem: we just drive a year longer. When 50PLUS and the SGP asked for this, it was absolutely impossible, but to keep the coalition going, suddenly there can be a lot. Special, but the end justifies the means. We are particularly pleased for those people who have been hurt that the Minister has come to his senses. We therefore assume that this will become a reality from now on and that this measure will enter into force as soon as possible, preferably immediately. Does it apply to everyone? Can the Minister explain exactly what is on page 2? Who's she gonna take out now? How big is the group that is really going to benefit from this? Finally, the flow of mails is coming to an end. Colleagues also mentioned it as a result of people whose re-examination runs smoothly. People who met all the requirements, went through all the inspections and handed in all the documents correctly and in time, but who were not allowed to drive, because the CBR does not have its business in order. At least that's behind us. First and foremost, 50PLUS naturally wants to know from the Minister: will we be ready in a year's time? Is the misery over and there's an oiled machine? The letter from the CBR doesn't cheer up. At the time of writing, the number of customers receiving a decision within four months decreased compared to January. The bottom line of the letter is that everything has to be put on top of everything and that really everything has to be done to make it at the end of the year. So it's very vulnerable. There are also internal doubts about the feasibility of the closure of the old Driving Suitability programme at the Steering Board. I would like to ask the Minister a very specific question. What more can we do to speed up the resolution of these problems? The colleagues also asked: Is extra money needed? Is additional capacity needed to work out things manually if necessary? Do we have anything else we could do out of the box? We don't want any progress on this mess, do we? Other colleagues have already referred to it: we have heard something else. The Minister's letter of 8 May states that the initial estimates of the CBR of July 2014 estimated the total programme cost of the Driving Suitability programme to the Steering Board at 7 million. The ICT component within it was less than 5 million euros, so the project did not meet the reporting requirements for the entry on the national ICT dashboard. But in an internal piece, a steering committee report to the management of the CBR, it really says that in August the CBR estimated the project Driving Suitability to the Steering Board at more than 10 million euros, of which the ICT component was greater than 7 million: €7.416.000 to be precise. This project already met the conditions for listing on the ICT dashboard in 2014. I'd like a response from the Minister. We would also like to know what is going on with the implementation of the plan of approach to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation. And the CBR... My fellow Members have already said it, and I agree with what the SP said about inspections and so on, because we, too, are particularly concerned about this. We want the Minister to take a firm and adequate approach to the situation as soon as possible and to provide solutions, whatever they may require. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Dijkstra has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yes, Mrs. Van Brenk. Extra transmission time. I heard a lot of talk about the ICT system, which is, of course, a tragedy, and also about the inspections. But you were mostly concerned with the system, while it should be about the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u75	What people are you talking about? The people who do the work or the people who have been duped?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u76	Well, I think it's the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u77	Yeah, I guess so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u78	All those people who call us, e-mail us and stuff like that. I haven't heard much about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u79	Well, I foresee a problem with the solution. We are going to drive a year longer, and that also gives the CBR a year longer time to solve its problems and get things in order. If it doesn't work in a year, Mr. Dijkstra, we're in favour of letting people drive through. For then the motion that Mr Martels is going to table, and which I am a great and warm supporter of, has perhaps been carried out and will no longer be required to carry out those age checks. Then we'll be out of a lot of trouble. Mr President, I wanted to say something uglier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u80	No, we're not gonna do that. Mr Vón Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u81	When D66 and the CDA proposed the introduction of a coulance scheme a few months ago, 50PLUS described it as a voter deception. I do wonder, since it turns out that at least some flexibility can be shown, how 50PLUS stands about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u82	I feel quite taken by this Minister, because she has said over and over again, both to the SGP and to 50PLUS, that it was absolutely impossible. It was impossible, absolutely impossible. The insurers couldn't do it and the like. I couldn't. But actually this is a very simple solution and actually the motion you are now planning...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u83	The motion proposed by Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u84	Of course, which Mr von Martels, the CDA, intends to submit, he would have solved a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u85	I fully agree with what Mrs Van Brenk has said, but it was a pity to hear that the parties that so well intended were accused of electoral deception. I was sorry to hear that, and I would like to see Mrs Van Brenn take those words back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u86	Perhaps it is good to know that the motion tabled by the CDA and D66 was ready from 50PLUS and the SGP. It has been forwarded to Mr von Martels. He didn't respond to that, and then file the motion himself. There's some frustration on our part, I'm sure you understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u87	It's a matter that needs to be sorted out to the bottom. Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Brenk is rather optimistic about the solution that is now in place, but I wonder if she can help me on my way. Because I read that the regulations on driving licences need to be amended. It'll take six to nine months. After that, it will be considered whether this method can be applied in advance of the introduction of the AMvB, but the risk of liability will have to be weighed first. Do you now feel that in the short term there will really be a solution? Or are you, like me, still quite critical of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u89	Is Mrs. Van Brenk also quite critical?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u90	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u91	Well, this time I'd like to express optimism. Hence my argument and the question whether we can assume that from now on this will become a reality, that it will enter directly, that we can act in the spirit of what is to come. Because a lot of ministers are about to do that. As soon as legislation is in prospect, they can act in that spirit. That is why I am making a plea for this and ask the Minister if we can do it from now on, so that people can be very happy and not have to wait months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mrs. Van Brenk probably has the figures on 75-plussers ready before I have them. I have a question for her about the 75-plussing coulance scheme, with a laundry list of all kinds of things they have to meet. How many cases does Mrs Van Brenk think it will still be? Because I have my doubts as to whether it is still a large number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u93	I agree with Mr Van Aalst. My approach is positive: there is a solution within a year. I am very happy about that, and I need to do so as soon as possible. But that's why I asked what those five balls on page 2 mean. Indeed, are we going to make everyone happy with a dead sparrow, or is it a very large group? In addition, I still keep shouting: Mr. von Martels may have the solution to the problem, because then there will be no more 75-plussers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u94	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u95	On the first part, I fully agreed with Mrs Van Brenk: we are indeed afraid that it is a dead sparrow. The debate has already taken place on the second part of Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u96	Fine. Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mrs. Van Brenk is talking about an entire laundry list. There are five points that need to be examined. You're 74 and tomorrow you'll be 75 and you can just drive on, provided your current driver's license has been issued on normal terms and has never been recovered by the police and provided it's an A or B driving licence and you have no further restrictions on it. It's pretty simple, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u98	I find the fourth ball rather cryptic. 'Cause what does that mean? Does that mean that anyone who's ever failed anything and who could ride happily up to their 75th is suddenly incompetent? That's exactly what you just said, isn't it, that you can still drive after you're 75?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u99	We're gonna ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u100	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u101	Sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr. Chairman. Things aren't going well at the CBR. In addition to the major problems in medical assessments, ICT costs are also rising. Those are signs on the wall. The researchers of the Galan Group write tellingly: lack of execution power is in the genes of the organization and is partly the cause of the situation in which the CBR is located. That really scared me, Mr. Chairman. Because it must not be the case that this only holds up the hand, or that the tariffs of the CBR are going up. My first question to the Minister is therefore how she is going to get those CBR genes back on track. The Minister, Mrs Van Brenk, has just given it to Mr Van Brenk, fortunately now has an eye for the major problems of people with a driving licence which has expired without their fault. Because it is unacceptable, I think we agree with each other that these people are still in the cold. Very good that the Minister wants to give those 75-plussers a year's grace. It's very frustrating that they had to wait so long for this. But I do have some burning questions about this. Because why should the amendment of the Regulation on driving licences take six to nine months? There are legislative proposals that are being chased by both the Lower House and the Upper House in a few weeks. Can't we just go faster? Is the Minister going to put the amendment directly into motion so that it can come into force as soon as the signals are green? When is a very important question for me, can the Minister clarify when the extension will enter into force? Because can that 75-year-old who now sees his driving licence going on in August, just yesterday one more phone call assumed that it was just settled in time? That is really my most specific question, and that was also the purpose of my interruption just now to Mrs Van Brenk. Can the CBR thus free up sufficient capacity to help young people who are waiting for a medical assessment on time? The CBR handles everything on a temporary basis. Can applicants also be involved more often? Because people often see which tests are needed. Couldn't it be made much easier to have referral tests done so that a few process steps can be skipped? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the ICT. The cost of the ICT project Driving Suitability to the Steering Board, which has been referred to several times, has been around fivefold over five years: from 7 to more than 34 million euros, and perhaps much more. My question is: how is that possible? I really don't get it. When you deal with something like that at home, you just don't let that happen in an organization like that? I understand that my question to the Minister is not quite well addressed. I have to ask them to the people who really do it, but I can only ask the Minister the question. I'm really curious how this could happen. Who's gonna let that happen? I really don't get it. The chair wrote an extensive letter of formal notice, as the Chamber would be informed of the cost evolution every year from 2017. Indeed, but with an initial estimate of EUR 23 million. But as I just said, it was actually three times as low. It really took me a while to find those numbers. My question, also in the future, is: is the Minister prepared to report on the cost development of all IenW ICT projects in the budget and in the annual report? Because the letter we have now received gives me a bit of the feeling: I stood there and I looked at it. From now on, is the Ministry really watching under the hood instead of just looking at the outside? When I read Galan's report, I get the impression that the ICT experts of the CBR themselves would have preferred to opt for a different and less complex platform, but that this was rejected from above. Within the government, the chosen platform is further used only by the Tax Administration. But Galan also indicates that this organization is many times bigger than the CBR. My question is: did the management of the CBR have blinkers on? And how great is the risk that all kinds of implementation problems will arise in the follow-up? My question is: does the Minister really have enough feeling to prevent this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u104	Thank you very much. We are going to listen to the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Gijs van Dijk, from the Labour Party. After him, I'll suspend for lunch until 1:15 p.m. Then we get the votes and the arrangement, and then we're going to listen to the minister. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government needs therapy. And not for a day, for example a day on the moors. It should be in long-term therapy to realize what it is like. We have seen it in many debates over the last few weeks. It has been the case for years with the Tax Office, which is intended to collect taxes and to provide proper allowances to people who are entitled to them. We know that it is incredibly difficult and that it affects many people in their daily lives. In the Committee on Social Affairs we often talk about the UWV. We see miscarriage in error, while the UWV is meant to provide decent benefits to people who are entitled to it. It's a failing organization. If you look at the CBR, you see a comparison. It is an organization that aims to take exams and do inspections so that people can get back on the road safely. But we can see that the CBR isn't doing very well either. Is it a coincidence that all three large and different government organisations are in trouble and are no longer doing what they are doing, namely serving people? What you see, also in other debates, is that we are very system-oriented. That may also be a reproach to ourselves. Our government organisations have started to think very much about systems and no longer think about the people who have a question and just want a clear answer. I have already put that question to Minister Koolmees, and I shall also put it to this Minister. What's wrong with our government agencies? Is it not necessary to take a more structural and fundamental look at this rather than just solving the current problems at the CBR, even if it is absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u106	A question from Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u107	The introduction of Mr Van Dijk has been taken from my heart. Man should be at the center and not at the center of the systems. We talk too often in jargon and in systems, but it's about the people we do it for. How does Mr Van Dijk intend to solve this kind of problem? We want to put man at the centre, but of course we cannot treat 30,000 individuals individually. How are we gonna do this to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u108	If there was a simple answer to that, we would have done it by now. I see that really compare, and that's why I compare these government organizations. You have to look very closely at how culture is in such an organisation and how it is very top-down, so people experience little freedom to solve problems together. That is not from one day to the next, but that is why I asked Minister Koolmees to look a little more fundamental. This is not a criticism of the people who do the work, absolutely not. That is not how Mr Dijkstra should understand it. It is critical of us and of how we have dealt with the top-down steering of organisations in recent years, focusing on output, but forgetting people. I don't have a simple solution, but I don't think it's a coincidence and you need to take these three organizations together and see how you can solve this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u109	The conclusion that we can draw together is that it is a fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u111	Very good. Mr Schonis, brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u112	I hear Mr Van Dijk say this and I agree with him. I read that the CBR has to do contracts and a production plan. I think you're talking numbers, but not people behind it. I'm totally sharing that. I note that Mr Van Dijk makes this point so emphatically, because I believe that this top-down approach has been developed in particular in the cabinet to which the PvdA was a member. Some self-reflection with Mr Van Dijk may be appropriate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u113	This is getting a little on the level of the schoolyard. I've just seen it, too. Who did it? I think it is a reproach to all those who have been responsible and not only in recent years. I say that a fundamental problem has crept into our government organisations and that we must also learn from it as a political lesson. In cases like this, of course, we have to get on top of it with such a CBR, because we want it to be resolved now. But we have to think about what it means to such organisations and whether it will work for people the way we ultimately want it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u114	Let's just say I'm joining the last call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u115	Fine. You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u116	I'm about to finish, Mr. Chairman. I want to go to the CBR now. What's wrong with culture now? Like many here, I get a lot of emails from people who are in trouble because at some point they are not allowed to use their car anymore. They also complain about how they are approached, how they are spoken and the complicated terms used and how they are sent from the cabinet to the wall. I know that the Minister has used additional human resources and is now in some kind of supervisory position at the CBR, but how are we going to improve the approach and the handling of people as quickly as possible? This affects people very much, regardless of the fact that they are suffering from the delay. We were pleasantly surprised last night. I hope we are surprised by a letter from the Minister saying that she wants to solve these problems as soon as possible. More colleagues have already asked. This will take some time to work out. Can we assume that if a majority in the Lower House supports this course, the CBR can already act according to the direction the Minister describes? That could solve the problems of the people who are in trouble right away. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-4.u118	I'm suspending until 1:15 p.m. Then we have the votes first, then we have the order of business and then the Dutch people will listen to the Minister for her answers.
