ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on the Langer action programme at home. We have come to the answer of the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Chamber for the first-term contribution. It was a nice, substantive input. With a lot of what has been said, I agreed. I'm so excited to get into that. The classification of my answer is as follows. I'll start with a block of living and taking care of it. Most of the questions were asked about that. Then comes the block capacity nursing home care. That's kind of related to that. The third part deals with the various questions that affect the question of how we organise care at home. The fourth part deals with questions relating to family care. That is the classification that was to be made as far as I am concerned. Besides that I have a small block of varia, because I always do; it is so nice to hold on to traditions. Before I answer the questions, I would like to make a number of comments in advance on the urgency, the direction and the Langer-Home programme. Those three themes have emerged to a greater or lesser extent. First of all, the urgency. D66 discussed this extensively, but also Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. I recognize myself greatly in the pronounced and underlined urgency because we have a great mission to go with each other. That assignment's been with us for a long time. This was not born yesterday or from the start of this cabinet period, but before that the mission was with us. As a cabinet, as three executives of VWS, we have deliberately chosen to underline the urgency of this task in, for example, the policy agenda in the budget. I assume that we will discuss this further in the budget. The number of 75-plussers goes almost twice, the number of 90-plussers goes times three, the number of 100-plussers goes times four and the number of people with dementia goes times two. That's all gonna happen for the next 20 years. This demographic development has led, for example, to the reform of long-term care in the previous cabinet period. That was the previous cabinet period. In this cabinet period, the coalition agreement stated that no changes to the system were made at the same time. In view of the fact that such changes are taking place in the workplace, we have chosen peace at the system front. This is only the first time we have had a debate on the Langer Home programme, but it was already sent to the Chamber in June 2018. Even before that programme was adopted, we have said to each other in various debates: we will also have to prepare ourselves for a more detailed approach to how we organise care when the demand for care increases so incredibly, but not the number of people to care for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u3	You're working on the general comments. Are you done with this? If so, I'll go to Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u4	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u6	The Minister began his answer with demographic developments: the number of older people goes twice two and goes times three. But why do we not see any activity by the Minister when it comes to simply taking care of the places where those people, when they are later demented and bedridden, need to be cared for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u7	That's not right. When it comes to orientation towards the future, I have launched many measures, but certainly also in the present and present. I come to that in a moment when we are discussing the Langer Home programme and all the specific questions about it. We just have to take care of the people who need care right now. That is also our task, knowing that this task is going to be much greater in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u8	Sure. We even read in the budget that we need 100,000 extra places in nursing homes. The minister says he's making plans, but he doesn't. Or are they the kind of plans on page 13 of the budget, where it says that until 2030, 50% more people will have to stay at home, while we have to pick the people off the streets already and yet 14,000 people are already waiting for a nursing home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u9	Now Mrs. Agema is really confusing everything. I had this question in the very last folder. Let me explain something to you. At the start of the cabinet, it was said that, just after the system changes of the last period, it would be ill-advised to re-establish a new system change. This has been reflected in the coalition agreement. It is something many parties have said just after the start of this cabinet period. At the same time, we have had several debates. I remember, for example, that I had an intensive debate with Mrs Ellemeet on the area of nursing. That was about funding for community nursing. Following a motion by Mrs Bergkamp, we were talking about the committee on the future of care for elderly people living at home; about the future we are concerned about and on which we have to prepare. I said that funding systems of the future must also be future-proof. The organisation of community care must also be future-proof. Home care is not immediately completed after the system changes of the previous period. We will still have to prepare for the future. So we have talked regularly about the need to prepare for the future. That is also what we underlined in the introduction to the budget. It ends with a passage about the intention, given that fact, to present this year a contour note to make the system truly future-proof. That is what we are going to do, and we are going to talk about it in detail. What you're quoting is something else. The 50% you mention comes from the top sector Life sciences & health policy. It is in the footnote on page 13. That is not about the fact that 50% of nursing home care needs to be organized at home. I don't think that's gonna work. It is about the care that is now taking place, for example, for chronically ill people in health care institutions, such as hospitals. You should want to ensure that 50% of this periodic care can take place at home through innovation. This has somehow to do with the issue we are discussing here. We know that the number of chronically ill is going to increase enormously in the coming period, just because we live longer. So that actually has a very positive background. We must therefore be able, for example, to have the treatment of COPD, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes carried out not so much with periodic checks in the hospital but much more at home. That's what it says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u10	Is this also the answer to Mrs Agema's question? You'd do that at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yeah, that was this question. But I thought I'd pull it forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u12	Okay. Then that question has been answered, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u13	The Minister needs minutes to come to an answer. Usually that means the minister isn't comfortable with it. I quote: "We want people to have the right care and support in the right place. If it's possible in its own environment. Preferably just at home. We want care to be organised 50% more or more in our own living environment by 2030..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u14	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u15	"... instead of in a care facility,..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u16	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u17	"along with the network of people."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u18	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yeah, exactly, exactly, exactly. But we know that this is about the same category of people as the people who are now being plucked from the street; the people who are not already in a nursing home. We know that this is about the 75-plussers who are already using 70% of hospital care. They all have to stay home now, because you don't have a plan for the next 20 years to rebuild. You don't have a plan to build. You can shake your head, but the Minister has no plan to rebuild. He doesn't have a plan for 100,000 extra inpatient places in nursing care. He doesn't have a plan to stack rocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u20	Let me take another shot at explaining. Mrs Agema's phrase is not so much about the great task of organising care for the elderly in the future. However, this is about how we are going to be able to innovate care towards the future in such a way that many of the periodic checks on chronic diseases that are currently taking place in hospitals are going to take place at home. That move isn't new. In the case of diabetes, for example, we have seen that many of the periodic checks that have taken place in the hospital have already taken place at home. That is much less incriminating for the people themselves. That is an innovation that has just come about from the field itself and which, fortunately, is taken very well. Patients with lung disease on their way to a hospital are now a lot of oxygen bottles in the weather. That's rather incriminating, I'd say. You can see that there, too, new care paths are being developed in which the periodic check-up takes place at home. We now have 1.2 million people working in health care. If we know that this concern is going to double, we will need to use the available human resources in healthcare as best we can. That is why I think it is wise, when you see innovations that are labour-saving, to embrace those innovations, to start working on them and to encourage them to actually come about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u21	The final point on this point, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Where is the Minister's plan in which he comes up with a solution to the facts he himself mentions, namely the impact of the ageing population and the fact that the number of people protected by intensive dementia care increases by 100,000? Those people can't stay home. They are seriously ill and are often dying. There must be eyes on that. Where's the plan for 100,000 extra places? They must be implemented in the short term. We know there's not just a kick in the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u23	I shall come back to all the questions on this subject later, because your colleagues have also asked the same questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u24	The Minister clearly states that he sees the urgency. I just think that the Minister should add something to this debate. I think almost every Member of Parliament has indicated that there are concerns. So I think it is a challenge for the Minister to take away our concerns, especially in the short term. In the progress report Langer At home I don't see the urgency. A number of colleagues have also said that they no longer see the forest through the trees. There are a lot of actions and projects, but we have too little insight into whether they all land in practice and whether we are seeing these results. I therefore call on the Minister to at least be as concrete as possible to share the broad concerns but also to translate those concerns into what the Minister is going to do about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u25	Yeah, absolutely. Sure, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u26	We look forward with great interest to the rest of the answer, in which the Minister will explain in what way he wants to do so. But he also indicates that he has actually been working on this urgent task lately. I think that is a slightly too rosy picture, because of all the people who are involved in the care of the elderly, whether from the municipalities or from the funding side, I get the impression that the problems are piling up and that they are getting something very limited from the Langer Home programme or nothing at all. This may be a positive sign that they are already doing it themselves, but that may also mean that the people and organisations who are struggling with care for the elderly are still not aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u27	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u28	My question to the Minister is what he wants to say to all these people who say that they are already struggling in the future to provide good care and a good home for all those old people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u29	This is in fact in line with the second general point I would have liked to make about the direction. I think that is the answer to this question. I understand what I have heard in all the contributions, because in the department we had the same thing when we were making this programme together with all these organizations. In all those big assignments we have.. make sure that care is properly arranged at home, make sure that you support the carers well and make sure you take sufficient steps in the field of living and care..................................................................................................... Of course, we have deliberately invested responsibility at the level of municipalities, housing corporations or regions in all the changes in the system over the past period. That means that, if you want to create things here and start things, you have to keep looking for: how do I create the movement that also helps enough to get care organized at home in the short term? It is always important to look again, in fact by subject, for how to achieve that movement. If you want a corporation and a congregation to do other things than they did in the past, who should they push to get there? 'Cause with a direct line from the Ministry, you're not gonna make it. It doesn't work that way, but we do want it to happen. We all want it to happen, not only in the coincidence that all these parties are very innovative and very progressive, but actually we want it to happen throughout the Netherlands, because that is what it was meant to be. At the same time, we also want to do justice to ownership close to home, at local level, because we have made the choices of the system change in the past period very conscious. Of course, you will also hear this search in the programme we have chosen. I would add one more thing, because I agree with Mrs Ellemeet at the same time. We now have three systems that work side by side, one could say: a municipal system, a health office system and a health insurance law system. The roundabouts between these systems don't automatically go well. One could say that we should actually condemn the financiers of these three systems more to each other in order to do what is necessary in the region, whether it is the task of staffing, the capacity rating or the transfer from one system to another. That is precisely why, in the introduction to the budget, we wanted to set out the scale of this task and also to point out that the system as we know it today is not sufficiently future-proof to provide an adequate response to it. This is without prejudice to Mrs Bergkamp's point that you must do what you can and that you must send it, but it does mean that you know to the future that you will have to make some system changes. Not a whole new system, because then you will be ten years and billions further, but a number of system changes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u30	I can now hear the Minister say clearly: we know that it is very complicated and that we must do something about it. I would have liked to have heard this statement from the Minister at the beginning of this cabinet period. What he started out with, and that is also very nice, are initiatives with which we can quickly show smaller successes. I do not mean bathing; that is really positive and it is also important to show what we can do now, but we could have made this observation with our common sense at the beginning of this cabinet period. It's very complicated and then you get to the system responsibility of this minister. Indeed, all kinds of parties are working on it. The fact that everyone runs their own toko is part of the problem. My question is whether the Minister cannot admit here: indeed, I should have taken this very tough matter seriously rather than taking my system responsibility, so I should have scored less quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mrs Ellemeet's presentation is not entirely in line with the chronology of things. In fact, at the beginning of this cabinet period, including as a mandate from the coalition agreement, we said that these changes to the system, which were taking advantage of each other in terms of implementation practice, caused so much unrest that we had to dim down with changes to the system. By the way, we also said straight away that systems do not care. So if you want care to get better, you don't have to go back to a system immediately, but you have to make sure that you get that care in order at home when it comes to home care. That was the choice at the beginning. However, even before the Langer Home programme came into being, the observation has already been made, among other things, on a motion by Mrs Bergkamp, that in the end we cannot ignore the fundamental knowledge that our system is not sufficiently future-proof. That is why the Forest Committee, the Committee on Future Care, the elderly living at home, has been set up. There are no quick fixes for that, because you will see that very complex major issues emerge. You don't mean there are quick fixes. That was the very essence of your contribution, which I very much agree with. We both did it. Knowing that you can't control everything linearly from a department, we make sure that we make improvements in the here and now. We'll get to that in a minute. At the same time, we are making the system fit for the future. That's what we're doing. We both do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u32	Rounding up. It is true that a committee has been set up to look at what we need to do in the future. It is also true that the Minister has looked at what we can already do with pilots and beautiful projects. But I miss what's in between. What can we already change about the complicated system without having to change about it already? How can we help all those parties involved in this process to work well together? That is where the spokesmen run and I would like to see that role of the Minister even more firm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u33	That is precisely what the Langer Home programme is about which we are debating today. If there are additions where it can be done faster and faster, I am more than willing to look favourably at them. That's not the point. As Mrs Ellemeet describes it, it is precisely the aim of the Langer Home programme, knowing that you are not yet ready for the future in the sense that the system really needs to become more future-proof, and knowing that you just had a system change that everyone is still a bit in the ropes. You need to make sure you make practical improvements in the here and now. That's exactly what the Langer Home program is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u34	The Minister's all about the hot stuff. A very specific question is being asked, namely who is ultimately responsible for and also able to address the building of sufficient nursing homes and the building of a sufficient number of small-scale housing facilities for people who do not want to live at home, but who do not yet have access to the nursing home. The Minister does not really answer that question. We're gonna investigate and we're gonna discuss it, but I already asked that question earlier. Who's gonna make the performance agreements between the healthcare providers, the municipality and the corporations so that actually those houses...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u35	But what does the Minister have to answer to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u36	Who exactly is going to build?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u37	That's a beautiful little bridge, because I'm living right now and taking care of it. I believe that the three points I wished to make in advance could have been made by way of interruption. Then we're gonna move into the block and take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Hijink, is that okay with you? Then you will have the opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u39	Action line 3 in the Langer Home programme and the agenda that I have taken together with Mr Ollongren of Home Affairs in the area of living and care contain a number of steps that we can take in the here and now to ensure that more is being built for people who need care. This is what we do, for example, with the Stimulation Scheme Living and Care. That is what we are doing, for example, with the Task Force Living and Care that started this week. This task force has the mandate to hunt down municipalities, but also all the other parties that municipalities need to do so. For municipalities and parties such as housing corporations and healthcare institutions that together have insufficient picture of what that assignment actually means, a support team at RVO has been set up. That's already up and running. That can support the articulation of that residential care question in the future. In addition, a hand-out has been made, there is a knowledge programme and there are several residential initiatives that have been developed in regional coalitions. In those 24 areas, it's about learning what's needed. In the Home Office housing deals, attention is paid to living and caring. Together with the Rijksbouwmeester, a series of concrete projects has been set up in a community of practice to share knowledge and experience. In short, we push where we can. Then I come to Mr. Hijink's question. The municipality makes arrangements with the corporations. That's right. That's what the House Act says. It's also true that a care facility builds itself. That's how we arranged it. At the same time, everyone notes that we are concerned about whether the sum total of all the initiatives that are going on is really enough to meet the demographic challenge that we have with each other. That's my concern, too. I would therefore like to use this Task Force on Living and Care that has started, which is taking on an exciting role in the direction of municipalities, to work on this with all the parties in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u40	You were working on the part of living and caring. So I actually want you to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u41	Yeah, but a lot more questions have been asked. But maybe we should take a break now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u42	No, I would like you to finish it so that Mr Hijink and Mrs Laan-Selschap can respond afterwards. I also see Mrs Sazias standing. Otherwise, we'll have an interruption after every sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u43	It's a bunch of questions, though. For example, Mrs Laan had asked where the direction was invested when it came to living and living with care. The housing policy is, of course, just the policy of BZK. Over the last few weeks, in the debates on the housing market, several observations have been made on how solid the housing market is. Sometimes that comes back to a debate about starters or about homeless people. Sometimes that comes back, as today, in a debate about the elderly. This ageing affects society as a whole. It also affects living, of course, but a stuck housing market also affects society as a whole and therefore also older people. It is therefore logical that these two domains begin to overlap. It hasn't been since yesterday, but it has been for a while. Mr Ollongren and I have worked together on what we could do extra to ensure that the parties who simply have a formal and legal responsibility can fulfil their task. How can we drive them and how can we support them? That's what we're doing with the arrangements we've come up with. This was Mrs Laan's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u44	Do you have any further questions, from Mr Hijink, for example? He'd already asked a few questions, and he's been at the interrupting microphone for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u45	Yes. For example, Mr Hijink asked who would take responsibility at local level. I actually have a somewhat similar answer to that. It is of course just the municipalities and housing corporations that have a legal responsibility. Mr Hijink also continued, at least this morning in the newspaper: how are we going to ensure that the health-care neighbourhoods actually get off the ground? Of course, we have had this debate before. The concept of neighborhood care is a very nice concept: close to the neighborhood, close to the neighborhood, ensuring that there is easy access to care in the neighborhood where you can go without having to have a very thick wallet. That's a nice concept. About its funding, I have said that this is about the most complicated way of achieving it, also because, to a large extent, zzp 1, zzp 2 and zzp 3 are re-introducing at least zzp 3 and perhaps also zzp 2. Of course we're not gonna do that. Nevertheless, the incentive scheme that has been devised is indeed applicable to the care neighbourhoods mentioned by Mr Hijink, but someone has to take the initiative. So I'm not gonna force municipalities to build health-care neighborhoods. I expect that there will be a care institution that says: I think Mr Hijink's idea is also a good idea; that is what I am going to do. And then one can indeed be eligible for an incentive from the incentive scheme. But we do do it with initiative from society, because without it you really can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr. Hijink. He got to the interrupting microphone before you did, Mrs. Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr President, perhaps a point of order. That is, of course, the disadvantage of collecting a lot. I actually have a whole battery of questions I'd like to ask right now. Anyway, maybe I can cut it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u48	Maybe just for a second. You asked all kinds of questions in the first term. The Minister has just begun the general comments. That's what you've been interrupting, too. Now he wants to move on to the questions in the field of living and care. I notice that after every sentence you want to ask questions about it again. So I'm trying to structure it a little bit. If the part of living and care has been treated, you will have every opportunity to ask about it. But the Minister doesn't make it easy for me either, because he's watching his cell phone right now. Are you going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u49	Of course, I can answer all questions in the context of living and caring in succession, but then it is difficult to get a debate, I think. Then I won't be much help to the Room. I'll do exactly what you instruct me to do. That's who I am. But I think it would be more convenient to allow a small debate per question from a Member of Parliament in this block. I'd be more comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u50	That's exactly the point. But then you shouldn't say: I have the part to live and take care of and I want to... Then we'll just go to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u51	It's a block, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u52	The questions must be brief, but so must the answer. You cannot make an endless argument after each question. That's not the point. A debate is a debate. That is indeed the conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u53	Let me just say how I feel about this first piece, namely that the Minister is pulling us into a very deep, dark swamp. He comes up with a whole list of grant schemes, task forces, support teams, knowledge programs, territory, community of practice... We were looking at each other, Mr. Chairman, and both of us thought, "What the hell is that?" All those English-speaking terms the minister always likes to throw in. The crucial question is who will ultimately take responsibility for ensuring that healthcare providers, corporations and municipalities are involved and that binding agreements are made to ensure that these houses are actually built. I am not just talking about care neighbourhoods, but about all kinds of small-scale housing for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u54	There's a formal responsibility. It's in the law. But we also know that this is not enough alone. That is why, together with Mr Ollongren, I have said that we need to do a number of extra things, such as driving it forward. The Task Force Living and Care is engaged with municipalities, healthcare institutions, corporations and project developers to make sure that this task is not only reflected, but that concrete plans are also made. That's one. Two is that we'll probably see then so we estimate that it's not so easy for municipalities to predict that demography and future care demand in a good way. That's why we set up a support team to help with that. It can be flown in like this. Three is that we will then see that it may not be so easy to get new initiatives funded. That is why we launched the incentive scheme "3 times 30 million." In addition, we do a lot of things in the field of knowledge exchange. I won't mention all the terrible English terms anymore. We encourage this exchange of knowledge to learn from the good examples, examples where it appears in practice that it can be done and to put these examples in the spotlight. That's one way to hunt it down. This is independent of the formal responsibility of municipalities to make annual performance agreements with their housing corporations. I hope, of course, that this type of agreement will come about because of these performance agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u55	And that's where things go wrong, of course, with: I hope... With: I hope and I'm going to rush a little bit and chase a little bit and guide a little bit and support a little bit. I would like to appeal to this minister about the shortage of nursing homes in our country, about the shortage of small-scale housing for the elderly. I think he's the ultimate responsibility for that. So it's not a matter of hope, it's a matter of doing. It is therefore up to the Minister to ensure that these parties are put on the table and that performance agreements are reached, so that the elderly are also helped. Otherwise, I'll know exactly how it goes. Then we'll be back in two years' time: "Well, we had hoped for it so well, but unfortunately it didn't work out." I want to be able to speak to someone. Then I'll look at this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u56	However, I do not think you are coming up with an amendment to the Housing Act, in which the responsibility for building houses suddenly lies with the Minister of the United States of America. I don't think that's the way to do it either. So we leave the House Act for what it is. Furthermore, what we are doing is giving the circulations of the current legal responsibility is not only to ensure that those parties who are responsible take that responsibility, but also to help them to take that responsibility. That's my responsibility. That's how I feel about that responsibility. That is why we all do things extra, on top of the legal division of responsibility as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u57	I will not use the words of my colleague, but I do have a number of the same questions. When I read about the task force, I got a little unhappy. And I thought, "Well, then I'm gonna put some people together to see how to do this." The question is: what exactly is we going to do in this Chamber? This minister comes from a city where the phenomenon of big letters is above every policy piece, so I'd like to hear from him what he's going to do in the coming period, the time when he's still responsible for it, to make sure that those numbers and those individuals who just passed by are actually helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u58	This is a question from several MPs. And that question was repeated a few times. It's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, my question was also: what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms, now that the urgency is hopefully getting in a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u60	I think we've already had that debate. This is not a justified reflection of how it happened and how it happened. I'll be right back on the capacity of the nursing homes. I have a different and more direct responsibility for this than for residential care locations in the district. I'll come back to that in a minute. That is a separate block, in response to Mrs Bergkamp's questions. This is the question that Mrs Laan has raised in her speech. How can you ensure that those responsibilities that are invested locally are actually taken into account? That's what I've been trying to describe. I am also more than willing to send a supplementary letter on this, if that helps to re-examine the debate on what else you could do. I can just tell you what we're doing right now. We know that the responsibilities that are locally invested are not always taken, at least not in a way that shows sufficient urgency. That is why we have this task force, which, with municipalities, with care institutions and with corporations at local level, is rushing the urgency and coming up with concrete plans with them. If one does not know enough how to present the future question, a support team can help with this. If there are initiatives that do not have sufficient start-up capital to actually get off the ground, the financial incentive scheme can ensure that these initiatives are put in place. What is also needed is to learn all these good examples. You have emphasised this: there are many good examples of new forms of living and caring. They're everywhere in the country. We do a lot of things to spread that knowledge. In this way, we not only ensure that we drive action at local level, but also ensure that we provide support to get these things done at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u61	Brilliant! You will explain exactly how it should be done. Then, as Minister and responsible for this policy area, you can also indicate what you think will happen in this area over the next year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u62	Oh, yeah. At the moment there is an investigation into which type of initiatives have all been launched and which type of initiatives are all under way. That's one. Two: I'm always inclined to focus very much on what we're doing, but also on what the effect is. What do Mrs De Visser and Grandma notice? You have to want to make the movement you're starting noticeable. So in the Langer Home monitor, we are going to monitor very well how many and what initiatives are being taken, and also where it is not possible. My view, for example, is that the incentive arrangement we are currently making does not meet, for example, an initiative such as the Knarrenhof. I find that annoying, because it was precisely to get this type of initiative off the ground. Apparently, the conditions for spending do not fit well. So that's what we're talking to them about. I am aware of a number of initiatives which did not exactly fit in with the conditions for spending in that scheme. So we have to change it. Your question is justified. Are we making clear and visible what new initiatives are being developed? And if that doesn't work out, what's that got to do with it? How could we help with that? That's exactly what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u63	I'm still not out of that dark swamp. I'd like to hear from the Minister what he's going to do next. He continues to list what we all do, but we have all noticed here that this does not lead to the desired results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u64	This is separate from the capacities of nursing home care, because I will come back to that in a moment. There really is a different issue than here. We can see that there are a lot of initiatives for living and caring. We also see that initiators are sometimes not helped enough to actually achieve something. We also sometimes see that the urgency of local parties that should push it is not sufficiently felt. And sometimes we see that urgency is felt, but one doesn't know how to do it. All these things have to be taken into account. We need to learn from all the beauty that's happening. So we also need to know everything that's happening. We must therefore encourage where the urgency is not sufficiently felt. And so we need to help bring about if insufficient is felt the ability to actually do the things that are needed. You say to me: but have you ever thought about that concrete idea, because why isn't that happening yet? I'd love to hear that, of course. I'd be very open to that. I am also more than willing to just sum up everything we are doing at the moment so that we can resume that debate. You can then give some thought to what should be added to it. I think it's fine to do that, but it's my view that, within the existing possibilities for living and caring at home, we've put a lot of thought into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u65	In the end, we see that all these well-meaning initiatives are really not enough, and there is also a great deal going on in concrete terms. And that just gets us into trouble and we get stuck on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u66	Well, to sum that up, I'd like to say that I think a lot of beautiful things are happening. At this stage, however, I think that we do not have sufficient insight into the question of whether all that beauty that happens in the sum total can also deal with demographics. There's actually my biggest concern about all these new forms of living and caring at home. I think that too little is happening in a number of municipalities. Yeah, I bet you do. That's why we're pushing it. But perhaps it is best to just say that we are looking at how we live and encourage care at home at the moment, but that we might also reconsider ourselves what we could do in addition. But let's both do it. So my question to the House would also be: if you see any possibility of adding anything else to it, I would very much like to hear it. And if I give you a letter prior to the budget debate, we can re-examine this debate in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u67	It's about living and caring at home and the nursing home. But 50PLUS is also particularly concerned about the gap in between, and I do not hear the Minister mention that. The overlap is too big. It just needs a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u68	That is what we are talking about: new forms of living and caring at home, and how we encourage it. We've had this conversation a number of times. We have had the debate a number of times. In that I indicated what we are doing at the moment. We have that debate again at the moment, a little from the point of view of whether enough is happening and whether you could push it further. "Can't the Minister take an even stronger directional role?" Well, I'm just explaining what we're doing at that point. I am also more than willing to put that on paper again. Let us resume this debate. And that's a little bit off the capacity for nursing home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u69	I think it would be very good if the Minister sent that letter for the budget, but I would ask him not only to tell us what is happening, but also to tell us what his expectations are in terms of results. In my view, there is a great need for this. Then I'll come back to that task force. I've always learned that you're putting in a task force the moment you notice it's not working. Then you set up a task force. It is interesting to see what analysis the Minister makes of this: why do municipalities not feel sufficiently involved and do they not feel the urgency? A specific question: have they been involved, for example, in the Langer Home programme? How is it that we are now debating urgency here, while the Minister points out that some municipalities do not feel this urgency? That scares me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u70	I want to be nuanced in that too. Of course, we created that Langer Home programme together, together with 21 umbrella organisations, I think. One of them was the VNG. We just made that together. The housing section in particular has, of course, been made very strongly in collaboration with the municipalities. This has been done in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After all, the housing policy belongs primarily to BZK. Only care at home cannot be properly shaped when living does not have a role in it. That is, of course, the point here. Of course, about the analysis of that, you could keep an evening full story. I'm not gonna do that, by the way; don't be afraid! But what I think is going on is that the housing market is pretty tight. I think that's one of the things that's going on. So there's very little flow at all. That's one. Two. A planned control of the housing market is of course not at all covered in the Housing Act. With Wgr-plus, we have removed a number of control options, especially from the Empire, but also regional control options. We have the instrument of performance agreements between municipalities and corporations, but it is not only up to the corporations to choose a way to live longer at home and make it easier for them to live and care. There are also project developers and there are health care institutions, which have to take the initiative themselves. We are actually only sending on a part of the housing inventory, and then in competition with a lot of other priority target groups, which the municipality also has to deal with. In short, we will really have to take a number of steps to ensure that there is not only more urgency, but that there is also more of a handout for how to steer that on living and taking care. Of course, it also differs from one initiator to another. Of course you have a lot of proactive, initiativeful people from care or from the housing market, who see a solution in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u71	It is not easy for me to share that entirely, but I think that somehow the Minister seems a little powerless. He says he's limited in his capabilities and that we have the Housing Act. That is true, but I would like to ask the Minister something, because there is also an opportunity here. The Chamber says: we are seeing a crisis that is only going to get bigger. Perhaps it is an idea, I say to the Minister, to ensure that the outcome of this task force is what I am saying is a sort of broad agreement, with all those parties, and to make real hard agreements, given the urgency. That also helps the Minister. Because I understand the role of the Minister, but it cannot be that when the whole Chamber says that we are facing a disaster, the Minister says: yes, I must stimulate and drive. I get that, but I really think it's gonna take a firm step now that we're two years away. My suggestion to the Minister is, therefore, to make sure that such a task force translates into a broad agreement, which contains real commitment to results and effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u72	A few things. It has nothing to do with powerlessness, but with how legal responsibilities, apparently consciously, have been invested. They are not being changed in the Housing Act; at least that is not my observation. I belong to your colleagues in the Chamber, in fact in all the political groups, but to the call for more control on the housing market. I recognize them very much. That is, of course, a debate which the speakers must also have with the Minister for the Interior. The care and the possibilities to organize the care at home have everything to do with the way you can send on that living. Of course, I am going to talk to Mr Ollongren about this. The suggestion of reaching an agreement, I think, was also made by your colleague Mr Segers, who I am happy to give to the task force. In any case, I think it would be good to describe in the letter to you the task package and the result that I expect from that task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u73	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u74	Please don't let it get ping-pong between two ministers. This minister is responsible for the housing-care combinations. I sometimes listen to a slightly different sound in the intermediate sentences. This minister is responsible for the housing-care combinations; at least let that be clear from our party. I do have a question about that task force. I'm assuming there's plenty of practical people in there, too. Let's not turn that into another drawing board operation. It should include district nurses, family care organisations, older people's associations and volunteers. Can the Minister at least undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u75	Oh, yeah. Well, I don't know if it is in that task force, but you have to involve people in care in every concrete project in which you think about what to do for care. If you're gonna see what kind of care needs to work, you're gonna have to involve carers. Of course, that must be provided for. There is no ping-pong, certainly not. Only, of course, that's just a fact with a stuck housing market also need steering to get that stuck housing market back on track. I can't do that through healthcare legislation. At the same time, you just need the housing market to provide adequate home-care combinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u76	You already said that. I'm going to see Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u77	I'll come back to the incentive arrangement. Of course, that incentive arrangement did not come for nothing either. In the progress report, the Minister writes that he thinks of about 50 projects per year of 25 to 40 homes. Firstly, if the Minister is under the Christmas tree by the end of 2020, we have about 100 projects and between 2,500 and 4,000 homes. Let me get this straight. Secondly, is this also taking into account people who are wrongly in hospital? Could this be a solution for them? Well, "solution" is a big word; could this help them and can they be taken care of there? That would have answered all my questions about this line of action, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u78	The latter is actually more of a temporary stay problem, but I will get to that in a moment. The first point was your assumptions regarding the scheme. Yes, those are indeed the assumptions about the scheme, but of course I am dependent on the initiators. At the moment, twelve initiators have come forward. I also know that initiators have not reported because of a spending condition, which makes them ineligible. For example, that plays at the Knarrenhof. However, the scheme should allow for the initiatives that we would like to bring in, so we need to change that scheme in order to bring in all those who want to, but do not fully meet the spending obligations. In short, we are going to change that arrangement. I hope, then, that I will be able to get the figures that Mr Slootweg is describing. I will come back to the question about the temporary stay later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u79	I think we're looking for a little comparison between the ambition of the Chamber and what the Minister wants to facilitate, which he has in mind. In response to college Hijink he said: we mainly facilitate what comes from society itself. I think there's a desire on this side of the fence to be a little more proactive, to really draw up an agenda, to say, what do you want? That could come together in an agreement. Then these two parties come together and you can imagine much more what you do for people who are less mature and people with a smaller scholarship. If you just leave it to the initiative of society, people who have a good wallet and know the way will manage to get a new form of housing, but many other people will not be able to do it. In concrete terms, the Knarrenhof was mentioned a few times. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to look again at where the barriers are, where the thresholds are. Then we need an agenda and an adaptation to an agreement that is more proactive than the Minister initially suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u80	But perhaps I should explain that briefly. I rarely get the reproach that I color too much within the lines when it comes to the responsibilities we have at a rich level. When it comes to meddling with youth care, meddling with nursing care, meddling with care at home, taking care of the neighbourhood and organizing it in the neighbourhood, the criticism is always: shoemaker, stick to your reading; you have decentralised that system, so be careful not to sit on another chair. This is sometimes a surprise to hear this criticism. I want to explain why I'm saying that. If I tell the Chamber that I am going to get these initiatives off the ground, then I also need to know that I can make that happen. I know I can't live up to that without the initiative from society. I know I can't do that without the powers that fit in with it. Take a look at how we organized care at home and how we organized the Housing Act. There are quite few formal powers in this area to get people to stand up. That is a discussion between Mr Ollongren and the Chamber, and my discussion concerns the question of whether there is sufficient direction and direction to be given to care. My answer is no. It will be a while before there is an answer to the question of how to do it. When it comes to living, I see for myself, above all, the role of ensuring that the parties who have the responsibility will live up to that responsibility and can also live up to it. So it is and the drive and the support. I'm quite ported off the thought of a home-care agreement. It will be something I will have to record with colleague Ollongren. It has to be done locally anyway. The housing deals also happen locally. I would find it a nice task of the Task Force Living and Care to do that. I am quite prepared to take the question with me as to how we could shape and give substance to it. Even then, with a chord, you don't suddenly have stones on each other or piles into the ground. A pact or an agreement helps to get the noses in the same direction. It helps to keep each other's appointments. It may also help even in the enthusiasm to build, but it doesn't build itself. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u81	We can't ask the Minister's impossible. He says he doesn't have the tools to force people. I get that. We organized it the way it's organized. Before you do otherwise, we'll be a while. It is also a question of whether we want to start this whole discussion first. What you can do is get people around the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u82	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u83	What can be said is: these are our common goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u84	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u85	There are regional differences in land price. In one place you can get to such a new form of housing much faster than in another place. So you have to look very closely at regional differences, at income differences, at backgrounds. A form of a cooperative has been mentioned. If the Minister is able, together with Mr Ollongren, to get everyone around the table and indeed get the noses in the same direction, then I think there is more possible with an ambitious agenda than is happening now and there can be more than the Minister mentioned at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u86	I am going to take this suggestion from you in the letter I promised Mrs Sazias and Mrs Laan. That gives me the opportunity to have that conversation with Mr Ollongren as well, which we can deliver on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u87	Then I want to see to what extent the part now live and care...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u88	I've had a pretty good time living. Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u89	A brief question, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u90	The Minister states: I am prepared to move forward and see if we can reach an agreement. I think he needs to hear the Chamber. We do not expect him to be able to deal with this alone, but rather with a change in mentality, namely to be on top of it and to take that initiative on his own towards all those other parties who also have to do their work. But then I come to a more specific point. This is about the arrangement that the Minister has opened up. I had another question about it, namely which initiatives have come out of it and whether it is true that people with a small wallet also have access to that scheme and make beautiful things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u91	The Minister. You'll come back to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u92	Sure. I would like to come back to that. But in those twelve there are also these kinds of initiatives, certainly. But I do not think that the twelve are enough, so we need to change that arrangement anyway. I would like to check whether there is any further classification that I can give to the Chamber. But of course, that is precisely what the regulation is meant for. Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr Hijink, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u94	Of course, the Minister can do more than what he's saying now. I had the conversation with Mr Segers earlier on about people who have been chased out of the nursing home. His predecessor made this possible. So if you say: you can get people out of the nursing home, then you can also arrange that people can take that step back. I have suggested before: why do we not see if we can give access to these small-scale initiatives for the elderly to the group of people who are lonely, who fear falling, who prefer not to live at home? That would remove a lot of concerns and also remove a lot of bureaucracy. And it doesn't have to cost a lot of money. The Secretary of State is bouncing that away in one arm movement. I would ask him to look into that again, because I think we can solve a lot of problems with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u95	A few things. Let's get it out of the nursing home first. That does not, of course, affect reality as it has been. Because zzp 1, zzp 2 and zzp 3, so care pack 1, 2 and 3 no longer allowed access, but all the people who had already been assigned a care pack just kept that place. That's why you still have people sitting in a house withzzp 1, 2 and 3. That's one. Two. When it comes to giving access, especially for people with a small scholarship, because with that plea I am very much in agreement with a provision in which you live clustered, in which the care was also clustered, I find that very beautiful. Fortunately, therefore, there are also a lot of initiatives and I am therefore also in favour of the concept of these care neighbourhoods. So that's what I very much support. We have, of course, already had a number of debates on this subject, and we have also had a number of debates on how to finance it. That was actually through a kind of access via the Wlz, via an extension of the Wlz, by giving an indication for this type of care neighbourhoods. Then I say, no, I don't think we should. Separation of living and care where care is made possible but people then simply pay their own rent, I think makes sense. I think we should just keep it that way, not for the heavier forms of nursing home care, but for light forms of care that can also be provided at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u96	Once again, I do not hear one substantive argument as to why that would be so logical. We've had that processed before. You can house 65,000 people for 400 million euros per year in a small-scale healthcare institution; 65,000 people for 400 million euros. I'm not afraid of that kind of money. That's all pretty good to do. So this solves the problem that Mr Segers also mentions, with the huge bureaucracy that is playing in the background of all these initiatives. So I just want to give the Minister: consider it again and don't blow it off right away, because it's really a serious request to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u97	I'm sure I won't blow it off. The point is that it would actually be possible. So if you say you need a law change to set up this type of care neighborhoods, I'm thinking, well, that's not true. You can really come to this type of initiative in a much faster way. And I'm not afraid of 400 million. You shouldn't be scared at all of amounts that are big in this business. Because the VWS budget has quite a few large sums. The point is, of course, that all the new care initiatives that are on top of what already exists need even more people, where we are already lacking people at the moment. Of course, that's the downside. In the end, therefore, we will also have to choose in scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u98	For the Acts: the Minister replied to me that on page 13 of the budget, which had 50% more care at home, only concerned hospital care. But then I refer him to the letter of 18 June 2019 from his colleague who is about the right care in the right place. There is "some examples" as follows. The first example is an initiative, which ultimately leads to the conclusion that unnecessary visits to emergency services and hospitalization, nursing and nursing homes are avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u99	Then you made your point, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u100	You're quoting from a letter I don't have with me right now, so I can't see the context either. That makes it a little difficult to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mrs Agema mentioned the date of the letter, so that comes in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yes. What this minister says is not the issue, of which his fellow minister, Mr Bruins, says it is the issue. This is how confusions arise. However, the aim of that 50% higher level of care at home is to prevent admission to nursing homes and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u103	Yeah, "to be prevented." That's something other than getting that care organized at home. What we are talking about here on page 13 of the budget is what I have just explained. That's what it is. I don't remember the letter you're quoting. It belongs to Mr Bruins, so I don't think you expect me to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u104	Page 4: the right care in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u106	We can turn it into some confusing discussion, but according to the colleague of this minister, the other minister, it is indeed the intention to avoid the right place in care homes and nursing homes with the right care. That is what I also attacked the Minister, that he wants to leave even more people at home, who should actually be able to go to a nursing home or a nursing home. Those are the 14,000 people who are already waiting for a place in a nursing home, or all those demented people wandering the streets and being picked out of parks by the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u107	Before the Minister closes his block of residential care, I would like to ask him about the incentive arrangement. We have heard a lot of colleagues who say that this arrangement is only for new construction, but if I dig well on that website, I will come across a cup of cultivation. It does say that the renovation must be substantial. What about, for example, people who want to rebuild an old vacant farm? These small-scale projects, which we also want to have nearby, are not always substantial. How, precisely, can we make this regulation accessible for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u108	Once again, I am going to look at a number of initiatives which are currently not sufficiently eligible for this scheme. "basic" is of course important in itself, because if you change something for one place each time, you are pretty fast through your money and the result in terms of number of places you have managed to realize is not that big. So you do want it to have an impact. So that's the question of substance. In my view, it is not more standardized and can therefore simply be assessed in the case of the application. But substantial is important. But again, I'm going with a number of initiatives that just didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u109	And you will also take this point from Mrs Sazias?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u110	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u111	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u112	All the little bits together are also substantial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. Then I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u114	I'm moving on to the capacity of nursing home care. That is a question raised by Mrs Bergkamp in particular and by Mrs Ellemeet and others. I agreed with your committee before the summer that we have a number of things to do when it comes to the capacity of nursing care. We know that the trend will be that the number of Wlz indications issued will increase significantly in the coming period. This has also increased significantly in the last year and in recent years. The capacity actually doesn't add up. We see this in the form of waiting lists, which are indeed rising. That's what we hear in all the stories when we're on a job visit. I think we're all going through that. I would like to emphasise a number of elements. The first is the question of what we can do to help in the short term. In any case, we ourselves as a state have enough budget for the healthcare offices to buy in sufficient care. Of course, that's what it starts with. Here's what we're gonna do. We get advice twice a year from the NZa on how much budget is needed at that time. This is based on the number of indications issued. This advice also extends to the budget needed in the coming years. We recalibrate the budget for nursing home care at two appropriate times in the year. Soon I'll be coming back with a frame letter to your direction. I always share the result of the review with the Chamber. That's the first thing. I would like to underline this because this is also an answer to Mrs Ellemeet's question as to whether we were surprised. Not at all, the system includes a number of fixed moments where we will have the necessary capacity re-evaluated in the short and long term, i.e. both for the current year and for the coming years. We do this at two times in the year: in spring and in autumn. The second element relates to the health offices. We have just talked about forward planning and how much capacity is actually needed. Municipalities are at the beginning to get that prognosis sharp on the retina. The healthcare offices are still at the beginning of that prognosis. It is also a question of predicting the impact of demographic development in every healthcare office region. There too, we need to work in the same way. We need to make regional images and make projections. We need to ensure that the talks are conducted in the region on the basis of this forecast. This can and should be done in the here and now, but this should also be discussed in the discussion on how to ensure in the region that the various clients feel more responsible for the care. So we have to do this in these two ways. The third is the development of waiting lists. That's where you see it most. In the letter that was recently written about capacity, I indicated that you cannot quite put the number of spots and the number of Wlz indications together. Some Wlz indications are not yet cashed. Some places are occupied by two people in a year. You can't put that all one-on-one together. You can see that the growth in the number of Wlz indications issued has been higher than in the number of buildings realised. Where you see it pinching, it's in the waiting lists. We need to get a better look at the waiting lists. We have the distinction between active and inactive. Mrs Agema has rightly said that this distinction is not helping us enough. It doesn't give us enough visibility. That view is there for the active waiting. For this purpose, the care office has a mediation function. It is also quite successful to carry out this task, despite the fact that the number of people to be mediated is growing very strongly. Within the standard that applies to this, the bar norm, this works pretty well. We have a rather large group of inactive waiting. That group looks like one category, but it's all mixed up. They are people who would have liked to sit around the corner in the nursing home, but because there was no place there before, have already gone to another nursing home. These people don't always want to go back. For them, there's already normal nursing home care. They are also people who would like to go to a specific nursing home and until the time there is a place at home it will save some time. You have to be in touch with these people every now and then because you don't know if they're still gonna make it home. You could say you need to get more relief in the group inactive waiting. At first we had a discussion about whether we should drop the distinction. Then I was afraid we'd be completely out of sight. We need to classify the group of inactive waiting more; we need to put more relief into it. In addition, we also need to check how healthcare agencies are in contact with these people. Last night, I had a meeting with the health offices. They say that they have rather intensive contact with the inactive. If the care office doesn't have that, then the relevant care facility is in contact with these people. The Wlz indication was issued for a reason. At some point there should be concern. You need to know in time if the inactive are suddenly asking for active mediation. That's the third step we're taking to get a better look at who's waiting at a place in the nursing home. There's a lot of stuff in there. The fourth is the labour market. We often have debates about everything we do in the context of working in healthcare. The fifth is that real estate can also be a bottleneck. You indicated this earlier in the debate. In my view, Mrs Hermans was the one who brought that up. Then we said: let's look into it, how big the real estate issue really is, because we don't really see that. Central planning was abolished in 2009 in the Wlz. We have no idea how the real estate leg is developing and we know that it can be a bottleneck for expanding the capacity of nursing care. So we need to get a better look at it. In combination with the regional images we make, we have a more precise assignment for health care agencies that big, your task is also for the supervisor NZa: how and when did you solve the waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u115	I want you to answer all the questions relating to the capacity of nursing care first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u116	I actually did it under the heading "What do we do in the short term?" And I honestly think I've had most of the questions, except if I'd be willing to come up with a letter before the budget debate on what we can do to push on the capacity of nursing care and to get rid of the waiting lists. I have just given an outline of what we are doing about it, but I am more than willing to give it on paper and to see, perhaps a little bit in addition to the other commitment, what we could possibly do in it. Those were the most important questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u117	Are there any minor questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u118	Yeah, there's another one that touches on temporary stay. That is a question from Mr Slootweg, but that is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'd just answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u120	That was the question: can there not be beds for people who are temporarily unable to go home, for example, in the construction of nursing and hospital facilities? The answer is as follows. A lot of first-line accommodation, especially temporary stay Wlz, so the crisis beds of the Long-term Care Act, and sometimes even the respite beds in the WMO are organized by nursing homes. On the contrary, we can see that this temporary stay is often linked to a nursing home. This also makes it easier to scale. So the answer is yes. It is also a good thing that we do so, because that makes it more practical in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u121	Then I will go to Mrs Ellemeet, who can ask questions very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. The Minister says: I have not been surprised by the figures. Nevertheless, in Monday's letter, we see that the growth in supply is 1.5%, I say by heart, and the growth in demand is 4%. There's a big hole in that. Does the Minister see this as a problem? Does he want to solve this in the short term? What does that mean for the budget he's going to set free for the care offices?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u123	I certainly see that as a problem. Where you can't put the growth rates in number of places and in number of Wlz indications all together, you can see the waiting list where that is a problem: that's where it seems to be pinching. The waiting list is particularly sharp in the last six months. I think it's a good system to update twice a year in the financial sense. Because we've seen the waiting list get so sharp in the last few months, we'll have to ask the NZa for a third time how it's going. That's one element. Two. Where we see that municipalities have a big assignment, we certainly also see that care offices have a big assignment. It is not a fact that capacity growth comes about on its own. This means that we will have to give care agencies more credit for this. But we will also have to enable them to do so. The image of what is actually needed in terms of demographics must be well established with them. So those regional images that RIVM makes, they're also going to be made for nursing care. Three. Here too, there are all kinds of initiators around living and caring. I found it interesting, and that was quite new to me, that the main growth in capacity is not so much in institutional care but especially in the vpt, the full package at home, or in the pgb-funded care. So you obviously need those initiators to meet the demand for capacity. Is there sufficient use of that? Is there a sufficient response? In short, I think we have real work to do here, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u124	I think it is a very good idea to ask the Healthcare Authority for additional advice on how we are going to walk into the waiting lists. On what time does the Minister intend to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u125	I think I'd come this week or next week with the frame letter WlZ. I think I should take advantage of that letter to let the Chamber know that I intend to. That's about that third moment. That's the subject of conversation right now. In addition, I have just promised Mrs Bergkamp to come forward with a letter for the budget on how we can provide additional guidance on the capacity of nursing home care. So I actually wanted to do it this way. For the budget is fine. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u126	Let me get this straight. The Minister's letter comes for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u127	That's what the minister just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u128	But is the advice of the Healthcare Authority coming on such short notice? Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u129	The second advice is. On the contrary, the third opinion would be too short to follow the second opinion. Of course, you'll get similar advice. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the third opinion would be more towards the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u130	I am pleased that the Minister for the Budget is coming up with a letter on how to deal with waiting lists for nursing homes. I would like to make three further comments. I'm worried about care package 4. I wonder what's going on there, because that's hardly being offered anymore. Then the second. The Minister states that there is a difference between active and inactive waiting. Something has changed, of course, since the introduction of the Long-Term Care Act. They're all people with a very heavy need for care. So there really needs to be another system for that. In addition, people just really want to stay in their own municipality in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u131	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u132	It's a lot to go further away. This whole regional approach is important, but I think it is also important to get a look at the opportunities at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u133	That last one's hard. This requires precision, which I do not know if we can get it out of the regional images. I'm gonna take this. I understand the need. I always want to know more myself, but I don't know what I'm saying when I say yes to this question. The question aboutzzp 4 is very interesting. You might think it means that people really need a nursing home once they choose. Especially with zzp 5 you see a huge rise, which you don't actually see at zzp 4, and so you see a few climbers in it. I should therefore ask this question to the analytics. I couldn't think of an answer from the hip and say why it's the way it is. But it is indeed an interesting question. I think the entry level for a nursing home is much more often justzzp 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u134	Just a suggestion about that view at municipal level. I think it's useful that the care offices look at the inactive waiting, because they're often people who want a place in their own municipality. I think we can get the information out of that. My analysis of why care package 4 is offered less is that the rate will fall next year. I would very much like the Minister to look into that very carefully. The healthcare providers will at some point consider what they are going to offer. For zzp 5 and 6 the rate is higher, while for zzp 4 the rate is going to fall. The Minister is going to compensate, but I get back that the financial drive is the reason to offer less and less care package 4. There really are nursing homes that offer first and they don't do that anymore. So I'd like to know if that's the reason. I would like to get an analysis of this, because it must not be the case that it is no longer offered because the rate is low.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u135	But it should also not be the case that you provide an above-cost covering rate because you would like it to be offered. Of course you can't. The rates are therefore cost-effective. We've done a new cost study. In that we saw that especially the somewhat highzzp's were really lacking, and that especially zzp 4 was actually a bit spacious in his jacket. We corrected that, just according to the NZa's advice. We have then compensated for this for the time to come, so that no one unintentionally deteriorates in relation to the quality budgets and so on. It's all very technical, but I think we're doing it very neatly in that respect. I would be surprised if that would lead to strategic behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u136	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u137	My call isn't to mess with that fare either. That's what the NZa is doing. I don't know about that either, so we have to follow that. But I think that's a reason at the moment when providers make the assessment of what they need to buy, also given that it's just really hard to come out in terms of finance. If you have to make that trade-off, you're going to be onzzp 5 or 6, if you know that the rate for zzp 4 is going to fall and be temporarily compensated. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can at least make this analysis and whether he can put it back to the Chamber in his letter for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u138	Yeah, I'd love to. I'm curious myself and I'm getting more and more curious, so I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u139	I'm curious, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u140	Luckily, we're all so curious. I would like to ask the Minister the following question. I understand that part of the Minister's temporary stay is with the nursing homes and that part of this can be given a place in the temporary care, in the municipalities. I do notice that this is often difficult for nursing homes, especially because there is so much demand for regular places. How does the Minister monitor that there will be enough of these places after all? Otherwise one is stuck in the hospital or that bed is available for a permanent place instead of for a temporary stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u141	I will answer your question in conjunction with Mrs Sazias' question. I'm looking for it leafy. In the meantime, I can give you the answer. Here's what we did when it came to first-line accommodation. We have agreed with the health insurance companies: there are coordination points temporary stay. Why? Several providers had organized them, but they were often very difficult to find for general practitioners or for others who needed those beds, for example transfer nurses. Thus the transfer nurses and the general practitioners said that they couldn't find those places and the insurers said all the time: we really bought enough in anyway, but you don't use them. That was awkward, so there were coordination points temporary stay. I would like to emphasise, also in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet, that these coordination points have now been settled in all regions. But that has been added: yes, but then you only have the temporary stay Zvw, i.e. Health Insurance Act, funded, but then the temporary stay Wlz has not yet been financed, and certainly not the respite beds. The question then is whether you cannot broaden the coordination points, so that you have a better overview from those points on all the forms of temporary stay in the region in question, without knowing from those clients, those patients from whom you do not know exactly where they are going and what kind of patient they are going to be, at that time what kind of patient they will be paid from. I shall, moreover, leave the abbreviations aside, otherwise the President will be right to intervene. How can you control the coordination points in such a way that you not only monitor how many places there are, how about the occupation and how it is allocated, but also make sure that there are a number of beds available that are not labeled on a funding stream for a while, but where people are placed first, and later you will see from which pot that is paid? That's what you want, and that's the broadening. We have organized them in about half of the regions. I hear from it that little debate last week we had that it is rather complicated to organise it in the funding. Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Bergkamp's question was then, and Mrs Sazias' question is now: make sure that this is simply financed. I just agree with that. So half of the regions that show that you can organize it show that you can actually finance it. But at the same time, in all of our healthcare laws, there is an important obstacle to funding this kind of thing. This simply has to do with the fact that costs incurred, in order to be lawful, must always be attributable to an insured person, regardless of whether that is a Wlz-insured person or a Zvw-insurer. That does not make it impossible, but makes it more difficult to make this type of cost, which is not necessarily stickable to a client or a patient. We need to find a solution to this, because I do not only encounter this problem here, but also in the case of prevention from Wlz funding, prevention from health insurers and disability care. Actually, I find it everywhere. In short, we need to find a solution to this. I'm gonna get you that solution for Christmas. That's probably gonna be a law change. Mr Slootweg asks whether I monitor those places and their allocation and whether supply and demand are well balanced. Yes. That is what the coordination points do, which should be given a broader task than just first-rate residence financed by the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u142	I can imagine that there is some kind of mismatch over the regions. Can you then go from one region to another when there is room to be taken care of? What about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u143	I don't really know what kind of agreement is in place on that at the moment. It seems to me that this should be possible on its own, but I don't think patients or clients would like it. 'Cause your family needs to be able to come visit, and you're still pretty shitty just after the surgery. You sure as hell aren't mobile or on your own. To be honest, I think it is very preferable to provide sufficient space in each region. That's why you need to have a look at whether supply and demand are a little balanced. That is precisely what the coordination points are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u144	A brief question, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u145	I think the Minister is actually suggesting a very good idea. If you leave the beds in the first house unlabeled at the beginning, you'll only see where a patient is going later. Do you also see possibilities to realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u146	In fact, they already exist. Of course not for all of them. You don't have to. It is clear to many patients whether it is a health care facility financed by the Health Insurance Act or a long-term care facility. That is quite clear in some cases, but in some cases it is not. In fact, you should want this type of "white label" beds to exist for a number of places in each region. Fortunately, they already exist in a number of regions. It is only part of this that health insurance companies say to us that it is not easy to obtain this legally under current legislation. It's okay, but it's a little wood-rope. We must therefore make a structural arrangement for this. I'm very willing to do that. That is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u147	Thank you very much for the Minister's willingness to do so. Are you gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u148	Yeah, sure. Things I'm willing to do, I'm willing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u149	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr. Chairman. This was actually already a small trip to the care home and how it can be made better possible. I'll go to the block of care at home, with your well-being. I'm just going to skip what we're all doing and stimulating in that context from the Langer Home programme. You have been able to read all this in the progress report. I will go straight to the questions that have been asked in that context. As regards the state of play of the work agenda of healthcare insurers Netherlands and the VNG, I am very pleased with this initiative. That is a real recognition of the fact that you need each other to be able to do your own work. No one can do their own work on their own. You need each other. Healthcare insurers and municipalities need each other very much. Previously, it was mainly the large municipalities that managed to join the health insurance companies. This is a promise to ensure that contact exists in each region, and that in each region there is a leading health insurance provider and a leading municipality to ensure that you come to agreements with each other on the care of the elderly, the ggz and prevention. Those are exactly the three themes where you need each other very much. We are going to make sure that by January 2020 we see what happens in all those regions. We're gonna put that probe in in January. There will not then be a long list of all the consultations they have had, but simply a list of examples of agreements that have been reached in the regions. Do these regions actually function at that time? We'll come back to that in January. So I'll let you know. I do believe in greater commitment to prevention. That was Mrs Ellemeet's plea. Of course I believe that. You'll actually hear from all the nursing homes where there are many crisis shootings and where many people come in with a crisis: if we could have done our job with this client earlier, the transition would have been really much smoother; probably it could have been done later, or the client could have lasted a little longer with care at home if he had been in the picture before and better. So we hear from all sides that more prevention works. We have had a debate earlier on whether a nursing home should be allowed to do more about prevention. That's where you run into the shot we just named. We need to fix that. That's what a law change is coming your way. Then there is the problem of bulkheads at all. There's a lot of talk about fences in care. There is a category of bulkheads in the care that exists in our minds in particular. If we organize things differently in reality with common sense, we can and can do a lot more than you initially thought. Whenever I hear about bulkheads, I think: yes, but then become a little more precise. Why can't you do it there and why can't you? Have you looked over the hedge yet? Have you learned from that? That is the first thing I would like to say about bulkheads. It could be a diversion, I mean. The second is that in practice there are very practical divisions that can actually be done but on which you just have to make a good appointment. This applies, for example, to meal support. That's what we talked about. It doesn't go everywhere, but at least we have given direction: that's how you could deal with it. Then it doesn't even bother you very much, because between Zorgverzekerings Nederland and the municipalities there is a very practical agreement on how to handle that shot. The shot wasn't removed, but you can handle that shot. Then there are measures for which we need to change regulations. Of course we do. This applies, for example, to measures relating to the drop in health care, the extension of the multi-cost scheme and the extension of the own-cost scheme at home. That's an opportunity to make the shot between home and the nursing home more flexible and doable, so you don't have that care trap. But sometimes it doesn't work. Sometimes the bulkheads are such that you may want to change them, but then you need the law. And when you do, you'll create another shot. An example is that other part of the care fall, the own contribution that does not have to be paid at home but which is payable under the Long-Term Care Act. I can solve that by introducing, for example, my own contribution to community care, but I don't think anyone gets excited about that. At least I am not excited about that, but then I have solved it. Then you could say that I removed the shot. I can also solve it by deleting my own contribution to long-term care. Then I'm gonna be a few billions short. You can, but that's not really a solution either. No one has the cover for that either. In short, some bulkheads cannot be removed one-two-three. So how do I want to do it with bulkheads? In my view, this is quite a response to Mrs Ellemeet's question. Where they just practically exist in practice and you can just learn from someone else, we get that learning going. Where it requires an adaptation of legislation that we can simply negotiate ourselves, we do so. Sometimes it is really a system change and you have to think twice about it, but we also take that with the Forest Committee at the end of the year, of course. Also in the outline note we announced on the policy agenda, we will certainly try to settle that type of bulkhead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u151	And the answer is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u152	This.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u153	Okay. Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u154	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u155	Completely, with all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u156	With the bulkheads, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u157	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u158	No, because then I also have the palliative home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u159	Then I would suggest that you complete that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u160	Okay. Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked whether we also recognise the lack of palliative home care. Of course, we recognize the staff shortages in home care. We've been trying to look into it for a while. In the 2018 Contracting Neighborhood Nursing Monitor, we found that only one of the surveyed providers had to issue a patient stop due to a lack of specialist staff. But through the Palliative Care Practice Team that we have in the department, I do get signals that sometimes there are regional and sometimes more periodic shortages of district nurses, as we can see at all in the district care. Moreover, this does not have to have a direct impact on the continuity of care, as this depends on what a health insurance company in a region has contracted. Sometimes there is room for another party when there is no room for an institution or an organization. For the whole care, especially for care at home and for the care of the neighbourhood, it is of course true that the staff shortage is really noticeable, even very noticeable. It is much better for one employer to deal with it than the other. Period. I have answered the question about the coordination functions in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u161	Have all the questions been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u162	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u163	The Minister has the talent to talk very quickly and informatively at some point, and one would almost forget that there are still serious problems around those bulkheads.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u164	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u165	It is a heartfelt compliment, but also a warning, also to ourselves, to stay alert to the problems that really exist in practice. There are major problems around these bulkheads. It's not just in people's heads. It's even in this department. We are talking about vulnerable elderly people, but we cannot really talk about hospital beds occupied by elderly people who do not belong there, because that is what another minister is about. In my view, therefore, the problem of the bulkheads is also in this department. My question concerns the aid that the Minister offers in practice. Because I think he's right: we need to see what we can do for those people already. We are talking about hospitals, vvt institutions, municipalities and health offices, all of which are looking together for the best solution for those vulnerable elderly people. That's where it's going really hard. Even in big cities where there's all the capacity, they've been at it for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u166	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u167	They're finally gonna come up with an intention agreement. That's not enough. My question is: what is the Minister going to do for these initiatives that are going to go beyond the divisions, including this minister, to organise good care for vulnerable elderly people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u168	If our portfolio distribution really gets in the way, I'd like to take that up, because it shouldn't be. That's one. Two is: the problem of the bulkheads is too general for me. If anyone comes up with that, and there are a lot of people who appeal to me on the problem of the bulkheads, I always try to understand exactly which shot is meant. Sometimes it is a shot that can be solved in another region or around which work can be done and which can be solved in practice. That is, of course, the fastest way to find a solution. That happens; I have just mentioned a number of examples of it. Sometimes there are things we have done ourselves in law and regulation. I mentioned the example of all those temporary beds. Those are really bulkheads that you say: if you look at reality, then those bulkheads do not actually exist, but where they are created in laws and regulations, you should simply remove them. It'll only take a change of law, but I'll be there with that change of law. Sometimes it's divisions between systems that you might wish they didn't exist, but they can't be solved one-two-three for a moment either. I therefore find the problem of bulkheads too general. I think that you should always look more closely at what people can solve themselves, which we can easily solve ourselves by changing a rule, putting a shot just a little bit different or removing it. Sometimes it's so embedded in the system that you really have to think: if you take that shot away, you know what you're doing and what the implication of that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u169	The Minister himself mentioned prevention. I think this is a very good example of where things go wrong. Look at the social trials, a wonderful initiative in which good care at home, or actually guidance and help are offered to people with dementia. There the financing is a huge problem; the initiators must pre-invest until they are about to go bankrupt. The problems there are great and this is a concrete example. We also see it in vulnerable elderly people if the hospital, the municipality and a vvt institution want to organise the care together. Then it's complicated because you're dealing with different jars, different money jars with different interests. We can talk about this very easily and it is not in people's minds, but we have divided those responsibilities, there is money behind it and there are interests behind it. That is something we must break through. That's just tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u170	It is not easy for me to say, but it is difficult for me to say that sometimes they are easy to solve, that sometimes we have to change the rules and that sometimes we even have to change a system to solve them. So it's not easy for me. I do think that in practice we can also work around it. Let me mention the social trials. There are four and the shot that stood there and made it difficult to organize it, is that there has been a fairly long attempt to see if your prevention could be more easily funded and whether you could also make this trajectory possible at the expense of the Long-Term Care Act. The complexity of this is that costs are not attributable to an individual patient, at least not to an individual patient who also has a right to long-term care based on an indication. There is a risk of legality. Can I fix that? Yeah, but I have to change the law for that. Do I want to fix it? Yes, so I am going to amend the law as well, and I am going to take the examples I mentioned just now in the direction of Mrs Sazias and Mr Slootweg. Is that a short-term solution? No, so here's a little bit that if it can't do it the way it should, it has to do it the way it can. Is there any other way to provide funding? Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mrs. Agema. Oh, no, Mrs. Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u172	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I asked you this because I have a question about these social trials. Mrs Ellemeet's speech is serious. We have a motion passed by the Chamber. We believe in these trials; they are important for people with dementia at home. It is also financially attractive, but the most important thing is that it really helps people. This project is about to fall over. When we talk about Mrs Anne-Mei The and her project: she spent a year on finance. Who pays what now? A year! So I get it when the Minister says it's difficult, but it can't be that this fine initiative is going to fall over, I'll just say a word of warning to the Minister. I ask the Minister for short-term action, because I believe he shares the objective, but it must not fall over our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u173	Agreed. That is also why we are intensively involved in the type of puzzles that this project has had to lay. My view is not that it is as fragile as you are now, but let me take advantage of your encouragement to have that conversation with them. Our money has been made available. Four municipalities have been found. These four municipalities contribute. We contribute as much as those four congregations. The money's reserved. I would therefore think that the implementation should be successful and possible, but I will take your encouragement to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u174	Today, the Minister chooses to draw up a very complicated smokescreen when it comes to the bulkheads and the desire to detach. A few months ago, when it was election time, the Minister chose the angle of poppiejopie. Then he said: I see the cars of the home care centers everywhere; that is not possible; that is the way the market works; we have to do something about it. But when it comes to the wishes that exist in the Chamber in the area of waivers, why is the Minister not considering dealing with the situation before 2007? After all, the seven steps of care for the elderly were organized in one hand: domestic care, care, care, care, care, nursing home, nursing home and palliative terminal care were all covered by the AWBZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u175	Yeah, they were organized in one hand. I want to respond to this in a few ways. My plea for less market and less cooperation in community care is not so much about bulkheads, but about the different and future-proof organisation of community care. We have had several debates on this, as recently, a few weeks ago. That's one. Two is the question of how we should deal with the bulkheads that we have placed between these three large systems in the future. Is this actually a sustainable situation for the organisation of care at home? That question is explicitly addressed in the mandate to the Forest Committee. I only give a profit warning: don't think that only easy or painless solutions come out of it. Let me give you an example. I don't think any of us want to re-introduce their own contribution to community care. I certainly don't. I'm sure you don't want that either. I don't think any of us want that. It's hard to just take that shot away. So that contribution did exist under the AWBZ, I'm just saying. A second point is the three forms in which care is now organized at home, i.e. through the Wmo, the Long-Term Care Act and the Health Insurance Act. We would perhaps very much like to exchange one of those three, for example the Wlz. Then the question is whether you really want to get rid of the initiatives at home that have now been funded on the basis of that Long-Term Care Act. That is difficult, because they are often very nice initiatives. I am also thinking of the initiatives organised from the combination Wmo and Zvw. You don't want to get rid of that. I just want to say that those big bulkheads are not painless to move for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u176	Smoke curtains, smoke curtains, smoke curtains. There's really going to be more and more of them. The district care and health care have been transferred from the AWBZ, which was abolished, to the Health Insurance Act. This means that there is market forces, that market forces have gone out and that the Minister sees all these different cars from all these different providers in all these residential centres. That is really because of the transfer and the shot that was created there by lifting the AWBZ, where everything was first housed. The Minister blames me for wanting to get my own contribution back, but then I say: bring it to that subscription rate of up to €17.50 per month. Then we'll all get on with it, at least the people who need that care. So my question to the Minister is whether he can not consider just putting everything back in one hand, as was arranged until 2007, until everything was cut up. The household help was taken from the AWBZ and brought to the municipalities. In 2015, the district care and health care were brought to the Health Insurance Act. The nursing homes were closed down. Everyone sees the lack of these nursing homes. Doesn't the Minister see that cutting up, cutting up that AWBZ is actually just a very big mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u177	I don't know, because the AWBZ had become a Christmas tree in which incredibly many balls were hung. I think it would be wise, then, to look at it in the light of future stability. It was once the General Law Special Disease Costs. Then what part of that health care is so uninsurable that you have to include it in the General Law on Special Diseases? Of course, a lot was added to that in the course of decades. I don't think it's that crazy that you weigh that again to be future-proof. I do agree with Mrs Agema that the choices made at the time have an effect. Sometimes that's a behavioral effect, sometimes that's a slippery market effect. I very much agree with that. Those choices are not sacred to me, not even for the future. I believe that the debate between Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Segers was just a moment ago about whether you are also prepared to take a critical look at the functioning of the current system in the future. Yes, of course. The Forest Committee, which was set up and reports back in December, has received no taboos from us. Definitely not, even. I would like to have that debate with Mrs Agema, but let us do so on the basis of the opinion that the Forest Committee will be presenting in December. The cabinet will respond to that. I would like to start that debate with Mrs Agema on the basis of that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u178	Very briefly, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u179	Sorry, Chairman. Does the Minister really think that the Forest Commission is going to propose that the AWBZ be brought back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u180	No, I don't think so either. However, that is up to the Forest Committee itself. The question is there: how can you organise care at home in the best possible way? That's the point. The problem of bulkheads...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u181	And the committee is giving an opinion on this. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u182	... has been explicitly reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u183	The Minister specifically addressed my question on palliative care, but the answer was not yet exactly focused on my question. My very specific question was: how often is this palliative care not provided? Does the Minister have any figures on that? He said something qualitative now, but is it zero times or doesn't he know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u184	Palliative care is simply covered by the Health Insurance Act. That is, of course, the intention. The duty of care simply means that health insurers have to buy enough palliative care. In the 2018 Wijkverzorg monitor, only one party indicated that she had to announce a patient stop in order to prevent her from getting sufficient specialised staff. Moreover, this does not in itself mean that the person who needed this care has actually not been given any care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u185	And now the answer to Mr Stoffer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u186	Yes, but Chairman... I'm sorry, but I just have to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u187	I am very sorry, but we have been working since 2.10 p.m. and I would like to see a concrete answer given without too much detail. Or are you satisfied, Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u188	No, you don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u189	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u190	I wasn't finished either, Mr. Chairman. So maybe I should just give you the answer to the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u191	Well, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u192	...as it's stated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u193	Yeah, without involving a whole history. I'm sorry to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u194	That means I can't tell if there's ever been any concern. We ourselves see that we occasionally get some of these types of complaints. That is what we are working on with the Palliative Care Practice Team. Often it is possible to get it solved again. The real question is often that one wants palliative care at a particular location, for example at home or in the hospital, but that the rule of getting it at that place is the hardest and toughest, also to get it well funded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u195	It's still not the answer I want. I'll try to make it easy. It does not have to be this afternoon, but could the Minister give me some more concrete figures in the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u196	What numbers are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u197	How often palliative care is not provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u198	I admit that I will give all the figures that are available, but I do not rule out the fact that this figure does not exist at the level of abstraction you mention. Because the moment someone says that no palliative care is provided to him when he wants it, we, or health insurers, are just going to organize it. I don't think that's how it's gonna be classified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u199	That is very good, because even then I have an exact answer, namely: I do not know. So I look forward to those figures, whatever they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u200	That's good. Mr. Chairman. With that I think the block of care at home has been sufficiently discussed. Well, I'm going to take care of the family now. I'll try to do it all as quickly as possible. Cartel care is, of course, extremely important. Several people have underlined that. We know that we really still have a lot of work to do in supporting carers. That was a fair question and a justified plea from Mr Stoffer, namely: does the Minister recognise that volunteers and carers are the Achilles heel of Langer Home? Well, to be honest, from the care as a whole. There are a small 4.5 million carers, some of whom are really very intensive carers. And there are a million volunteers who help each other to keep care running in the Netherlands. So they're invaluable. We can't organize care at all without volunteers. We are also doing a lot to help and support volunteers, for example by providing better compensation through the voluntary allowance. We help with the free vog, the explanation of the behavior. We are also working with the driver respite care to improve access to respite care. This leads me to the second question, which has been put by a number of people, among others by Mrs Laan, Mrs Sazias and I also thought by Mr Segers, namely: what can we do to promote support for carers? There are a number of initiatives coming together. We have deliberately launched the driver's respite care because we know that this has not yet been achieved by a number of municipalities and that there is insufficient grace care. We want it not only to exist, but also to be known to those who desperately need it, as Mrs Laan underlined. That is why we have the driver, who will come up with an opinion before the end of the year. It is working specifically to ensure that this relief is provided, and also provides an opinion on how this can be done better. That's one. Two is at all the support of family care. MantelzorgNL has recently come up with a firm plea for a deltaplan care. That's what they called it. I do not know whether I want to call it that, but I very much support the substantive argument, namely: should we not better formulate what everyone can count on in terms of care support and what should be organized everywhere? That is in line with Mrs Sazias' concern, I think, that there are too many differences at the moment. Isn't that what we're doing to a lot of carers? It is also in line with Mrs Laan's argument that it is sometimes unclear what can be expected of care and support as a caregiver. So I'd like to talk to MantelzorgNL and the VNG about how we can shape that and what we need to do to get there. I shall come back to that in the direction of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u201	First I look at the Minister: is this piece finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u202	I have one more question. When will the Minister realize the first scrapings from that scrapcard Mantelzorg? That was a question from Mr Segers. In the conversation we have with MantelzorgNL to give a boost to the care support at all, I will also take into account how we give more form and content to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u203	The Minister states that this is for all carers, but that is exactly where our problem lies. You will be talking to the VNG again, but how are you going to ensure that these differences are not so great? It has just returned, but Amsterdam, for example, wanted to make millions of savings on family care. That could be totally different in Breda. That's not fair. How are you going to ensure that there is more equality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u204	That's why I do two things. One: MantelzorgNL has the idea to come up with a delta plan. They have a picture of that. With that idea under the arm, we look at what that means and how we organise it. That's one. Two is: in all these municipalities there are municipal councils, who say no if there is an unwise idea. The same thing happened in Amsterdam. I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u205	I actually see the phenomenon of "coat care" as a kind of cloak that is wrapped around someone. There's some sort of total circle. I appreciate all the good intentions of a lot of people, but sometimes it's not enough. Can the Minister, in his reply and in his reflections in the future, take on board the phenomenon of 'day-use'? How can you take people somewhere during the day, for example? What about the transport to it? Can that become part of the whole community of care? Another thing is a new development in society, namely that you combine care with people who are paying to help and support the caregiver, on a serious and structural basis. This is a new development in the Netherlands. There are good examples of this. And one thing doesn't cost the other. It's supplemental. Make sure that one person can just be supported by the loving circle, but that that loving circle can also rely on recurring support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u206	I very much agree with both arguments. The first is actually a form of grace care. It didn't exist like that. Your predecessor, Mrs Hermans, together with Mrs Bergkamp, has taken the initiative to enable this type of nursing home care, financed by the Long-term Care Act. This type of grace care should also be shaped by municipalities. Although it will be less intensive, because it will not be for a few days. But we often see that there is insufficient supply, or the supply does not correspond sufficiently to demand, or the supply is not known to those who depend on it. All three of those things we have to solve. That is not going well, and that has been the reason to appoint this driver for respite. This autumn it comes with its advice to us, to municipalities and to the concern about what we could do differently and better. That's important to get involved in that "deltaplan care." I put those words in quotes, because I don't think I'm going to call it that, but I mean the delta plan MantelzorgNL is after. The second thing you mention is absolutely true. Professionals should not only focus on those in need of care, but also on care, to help them to be a caregiver. The social approach of Anne-Mei The dementia is also about this. In fact, if your caregivers are helpful, then you probably also helped those who needed care in the first place. So I wholeheartedly agree with both arguments. Mr. Chairman. With that, I think I've had the care block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u207	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u208	Probably I've been able to do most of the variety questions somewhere in between. But I'm gonna have to take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u209	Yeah, you should check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u210	The innovations, I really need to do them for a while. The Forest Committee, I think, has been appointed sufficiently. The campaign on the imagery still has to be done. Those are the only two questions that still require an answer, as far as my registration is correct, of course. Mr Slootweg said: 'Where innovations are concerned, too often I see 'a thousand flowers blooming'. There's not enough learning from each other. The wheel is too often reinvented. So there is actually too little scaling up in innovations." That is absolutely true for the concern. That led to Mr Bruins' letter. It was very much about the standardisation of data exchange, for example, the standardisation which the Chamber also says you should simply legally enforce. They're working on it. But this concerns standardisation in the exchange of data. That is a different subject, of course. In new applications of e-health, there are a number of initiatives that look at what works in this way: what is a wonderful example, which deserves a stage and which should actually be learned from each other? That's for example now's Care. It was initiated from the department. This is also, for example, the tool guide of Vilans. That comes a little close to what you said about that you should actually have some kind of touchstone of what works in the execution practice. To be honest, I think that is a reasonable response to what you want. Then I come to Mr Segers' question, but I see that Mr Slootweg wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u211	I want you to answer all the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u212	Mr Segers' question was about the campaign. The Council of Elders has advised us on this campaign on the revaluation of old age and on the image of ageing. This campaign was developed and discussed with KBO-PCOB, with ActiZ, and with a number of other parties. Those conversations have given us valuable insights. Based on these insights, the campaign is now being further developed. The roll-out is expected to start in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u213	At least I'm glad that the idea that I had a little, apparently already exists. What surprises me is that apparently very few institutions and home care organisations know that it exists. So it's wonderful that we have a treasure, but how do we make sure that treasure is discovered? 'Cause it's just a bit of a shame if that doesn't happen. Can healthcare agencies or health insurers, for example, play a role in this? Who can play an entaming role in this, so that this treasure can be discovered more easily and that people can work on it more quickly? Innovations can then be faster than they are at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u214	I think you are right to say that in the care sector you see very strongly that very nice innovations are only known to a very small circle. The wheels are often reinvented. I recognized all your observations at that point. Purchasing can of course help. We are also very conscious in purchasing foster care, by using some of the extra money available for job-saving innovations. I think a knowledge organization like Vilans is just really doing that as her job and mission. But there may be other ways to stimulate that. I'd like to take that assignment with me to see how we could stimulate it even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u215	It's hard, of course. First of all, I kept a story here in which I called on the Minister to ensure focus, and now I'm handing in an extra shopping list. So I want to be careful with that, even though I like the hand that I'm handing. However, I hope that the organisations that develop this will be able to take another step. And if the minister can be helpful in that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u216	I'm gonna see how I can shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u217	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to the campaign. It is true that the date has been postponed every time. Now it says "early next year." So that's on the record. We're looking forward to it. Secondly, I asked another question about mental care. I don't think I've had an answer to that. When will there be clarity about the separate financing of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u218	You're absolutely right. You didn't ask that question for the first time either. I believe I will come forward with a proposal towards the Chamber at the end of this year. But that question isn't in this set, so I'm gonna make sure I'm ready in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u219	Fine. Then I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u220	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u221	I would like to thank you for answering the first-term questions. At least I thought you were ready, but there might have been one more question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u222	Yes, I had also asked how it is possible that, with a moving agreement, it still happens that a custom-made tool has to be handed in and bought again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u223	You mean the case in Almere at the Kassa program? It didn't go very well there. By the way, of course, things don't go well all the time; it wasn't one thing. I have to go again to the table with the VNG and the industry organisation of tools to see where there are still bottlenecks, and also to see how we can solve this together. So I have to get back to work on that. I'll have to inform you about that again, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u224	Fine. Mrs. Bergkamp, does that apply to you too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u225	There's something I need to get off my chest. I can do it in second term, but still. I am trying to sum up this debate and, looking at the urgency and the appeal from the Chamber, to understand what this Minister is going to do differently and extra. I come from the fact that we are still receiving a number of letters for the budget, so I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to explain it to the Chamber once again. I ask the Minister, when we talk about waiting lists, the shortage of nursing homes and care at home, to sum up what he's going to do differently and how he's going to turn that urgency into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u226	Perhaps the Minister can put it very briefly. In a letter, you said, Mrs. Bergkamp? I heard something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u227	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Not in a letter, because we know there will be a number of letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u228	We are in danger of a little repetition of what I said earlier; you probably do not want that either. What I do is this: I look where it is possible to intensify the drive and support of living and caring at home, living-care combinations for care at home in municipalities. How can we achieve it and how can we accelerate it? You have been promised a letter on this from me, in which I see what could be added to what is happening. That's one. Two is that with regard to the short-term waiting lists, I look at how intensification is possible and how the approach can be clarified there. We are going to look more closely at what is needed and how we can speed it up. That's a second element. That is where I come in with a proposal for intensification. I would add that if the Chamber itself has proposals for this, I would naturally like to hear them, because some of the issues will not be dealt with in the short term. That is my debate with Mrs Ellemeet. We have announced ourselves to come up with a contour note by the summer of next year on how we will continue to organise care well towards the future and how we will keep care accessible, affordable and organizeable. That's more for the longer term. It is both in the here and now, and for the longer term. We didn't have a conversation about this for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u229	This afternoon, in the direction of the Minister, we have been told by all parties, Chamberwide, in many different colours of sound, that we are very concerned. I can only hear the Minister explaining the current policy. The Minister says he is prepared to step up that policy. I think it is right that we should do the second term of this debate after the Minister has delivered his letter on how he intends to step up that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u230	I have promised you two letters on these specific points, even before the budget debate. What we have now set in motion for the short term is also what we have invented so far. I am very open to any additional idea. Of course, I understand the wish of the Chamber to hear from me what can be added for the short term, but the problem is unbearable. There's not just a magic wand to be found to solve things by itself. What we will have to do, in particular, and not only for this period, I would like to stress this: we are having the debate that Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Bergkamp have been engaged in on a number of occasions. I myself tried to initiate this debate in the policy agenda in the budget. That is precisely about the organizational nature of the care. The Forest Committee applies to home care in December and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u231	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u232	... for the care as a whole How do you steer it and how do you ensure that that care remains available for later generations? The outline note that we have announced applies. In short, it is not the last time we have this debate. We will have this debate with each other many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u233	Thank you. Mrs. Ellemeet, you're at the interrupting microphone, but I'm going to the second term. You just get the floor; how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to make a preliminary remark. I share Mrs Bergkamp's question. We should not have a debate here with the tone: things are actually going well and we are going on like this. That was the image I drew from the progress report. I think we are saying Chamberwide: things are not going well. We have a very big task ahead of us. That is what we all want to put our hands on and this Minister must also put his finger on it. Maybe it has to be more than a tooth. He really needs to put his shoulders on it. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large number of vulnerable elderly people have to wait for appropriate care in the right place, leaving them either at home or in hospital for too long;]] [[Considering that a good connection and cooperation between care for the elderly from the Wmo 2015, the Health Insurance Act and the Wlz is crucial to provide adequate care for the rapidly growing 70+ group;]] [[Whereas structural improvements in capacity and cooperation in care for the elderly are already needed in the short term and cannot wait until the summer of 2020 for an agenda to be ready, and this therefore calls for the direction of the Minister of the United States of America;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to request municipalities, together with housing corporations, health insurance companies and health care offices, healthcare providers (both hospitals and vvt institutions) and elderly organisations, to identify the main local challenges;]] [[to make a proposal together with the Minister for the Interior to promote the above-mentioned task for the development of suitable housing facilities, both new buildings and existing buildings, for the elderly;]] [[to identify the obstacles experienced in cooperation for the benefit of vulnerable older people between health care laws and propose possible solutions in the short, medium and long term;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this for the budgetary treatment of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u235	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the modular package at home (mpt) and the full package at home (vpt) are valuable forms of care from within the Wlz that allow people to live longer at home;]] [[Considering that despite an increase in the number of clients with a mpt or vpt, there is still scope to increase awareness, particularly among specific groups such as the elderly themselves, district nurses, municipalities and independent customer supporters;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan for the VWS 2020 budget to raise awareness of these forms of supply for these specific groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that social infrastructure set up, inter alia, by vital elderly people for care-dependent elderly people living at home is a valuable complement to professional care networks;]] [[Whereas in several municipalities in the Netherlands, for example in North Brabant, there are good experiences with the development of the social infrastructure of care-dependent elderly people living at home;]] [[noting that there is already a lot of information available to municipalities about this, for example through Movisie, the Association Nederlandse Organisaties Volunteerwerk (NOV) and the dome Nederland Zorgt Voor Elkaar, but it is not available in one place for municipalities;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG, to actively disseminate all knowledge on strengthening social infrastructure, so that all municipalities are actively engaged in strengthening social infrastructure, and to inform the Chamber at the next Langer Home monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-440]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-441]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u237	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The word "powerlessness" fell this afternoon. I believe Mrs Bergkamp said it. I understand that, because the Minister does not yet have the feeling that he wants very much, that he very much wants more small-scale housing for the elderly and that he is going to shorten those waiting lists for the nursing homes. I am going to help him with a motion in this direction, but I would also like to ask him one thing. This concerns the issue of access to small-scale housing. The Minister was somewhat less negative to broaden the group of people who could gain access from the Wlz. I'm happy about that. We will certainly continue to come up with proposals on this point. Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 15,000 elderly people now need a place in a care facility, but these places are not available;]] [[noting that the construction of small-scale housing is becoming difficult;]] [[calls on the government to have municipalities make performance agreements with housing corporations and healthcare providers to create sufficient small-scale housing for the elderly, including health care neighbourhoods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Sazias, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Kerstens, Mr Agema and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u239	Mr. Chairman. I do have the impression that the Minister really wants to. I hope, however, that after this debate he will be fully aware of the enormous urgency which is clear to us at least. That is why I have two motions, at least for the Minister, to support him. With regard to the incentive scheme Living and Care, we have already more or less received some kind of promise that he will do his best. I'm gonna make it a little more concrete. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the greater shortage of suitable homes with care for the elderly;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Incentive Scheme mainly applies to (new) construction and intensive cultivation;]] [[considering that many former nursing homes are empty but easy to accommodate;]] [[Considering that every effort must be made to increase the availability of suitable homes with care for the elderly;]] [[calls on the Government to make the Housing and Care Incentive Scheme also accessible to conversion projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u240	And then about the tools. I understand the Minister is going back to that. Hopefully this will be a little support in his back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain tools are tailor-made and are not suitable for anyone other than the client;]] [[points out that it is a big waste of money when customised equipment has to be handed over in the event of removals and re-purchases in the new municipality;]] [[invites the Government to organise that tailor-made tools remain at the disposal of the client for whom it has been made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers and for the commitments. There is one motion that has been held in the past and I would like to put it on the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u243	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u244	That's the motion in part No. 377 (31765). Two years ago, a motion was passed saying that there should be an old-age settlement. There still isn't. The Minister now says: I think it is a good idea. But that's a speech from two years ago. Then a motion was tabled to fill that out. So I'd like to put it to the vote. And I'm filing one more motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u245	Was it stopped at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u246	He's been apprehended, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u247	Fine. Will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u248	That's a motion from this spring. The new motion oversees the incentive scheme and makes it available to cooperatives, among others. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a major challenge to ensure appropriate small-scale housing for all groups of older people;]] [[believes that housing cooperatives/social enterprises such as the Knarrenhof, which want to provide small-scale housing for older people in different income classes, should be supported;]] [[Whereas such initiatives by residential cooperatives run into various obstacles in the area of financing and operation, including the criteria of the Housing and Care Incentive Scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the National Entrepreneurship Agency of the Netherlands (executor of the incentive scheme) and banks and, where relevant, other parties and public authorities to remove these obstacles in practice in the short term and to consider how residential cooperatives/social enterprises can gain more funding and scope for action, and to inform the Court of Auditors on this matter for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers and Mr Laan-Selschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the support in the back rooms for all the answers to the many questions that have been asked. The Minister himself just said in one of his last words: we are going to have this debate much more often. I think these were very wise words that predict the future, because everything is in this cocktail: people, stones, emotions and finance. It affects everyone, because everyone will be sooner or later to continue to fall into this situation in the English terms of the Minister. The subject transcends many departments and in order to find solutions we will have to work together. But, above all, official support must be aware that this problem is just about to arise. You can tell by all the numbers. Finally, I would like to say that it is about the people at home, who are now watching and want to have a quiet old age and sometimes still waiting for loving care, where many of those loving care get every day from their surroundings. On behalf of the VVD I would like to express my thanks to all those carers who manage to bring up that day in, day out, anyway. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u250	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank the Minister for his answers. My analysis is not that he misses the urgency, but that I think it is a tough and complex problem. At the end of the first period, I was left with a sort of question, which I did not say at the time, but which I would like to ask now. In the first line of action, 6 million has been earmarked to be able to use, in particular, the specialist on old-age medicine. Now we have reports that it is very difficult, as the specialist on old age medicine actually gets a place in the Health Insurance Act, that contracts are concluded with it, because they often want to do so on azzp basis. That is very difficult for the health insurance companies. Are these stories from the specialists in old-age medicine true? I think it is really important, when it comes to the treatment and support to provide care at home, that this specialist in old age medicine should be sufficiently involved in that first line. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u252	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Chamberwide, great concerns have been expressed about the Langer Home programme, about our elders who have to stay home longer, but for whom there is nowhere to be found. We can already see that there are a lot of urgent problems. I hear the Minister say: we will talk about this often enough. But I would like to inform the Minister that we are not here to provide employment. We're not here to turn off debates. We are here to discuss plans that actually go a bit further, or go a lot further, than what the Minister has said today. The problems before us are so great... If you still need 100,000 extra nursing homes by 2040, you don't come up with: the municipality blah, blah, blah. Or: the Minister of BZK blah, blah, blah. Or: I can't change the laws of care, blah, blah, blah. I mean, you just don't get there, and then we'll be here for the next ten or twenty years, just turning into a little debate. You can't do that, Mr. Chairman. Something really needs to be done about that. I'm holding my heart. It cannot be that only popular programs are thrown into the world without something actually happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u254	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u255	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I do not think he has an easy job on his shoulders. I'm here today as a substitute, but that's my conclusion. I am also particularly pleased with the Minister's recognition that the shortage and decline of volunteers and carers is really one of the Achilles heels of the Langer Home programme. I would like to know very specifically what the Minister is looking at this, also in the light of the increasing tax incentive to involve people in the pay-for-work process. I see the Minister's laughing, so I think he's very happy with this question. Somewhere we might be in a trap if we're not careful. I am very curious to see if he will be able to reflect briefly on this because of you, Mr President, otherwise it will take far too long. It is also nice that he wants to use an integrated approach to get out of the system. In doing so, he wants to make it possible to stay home for a longer period of time. In order to help stimulate this, I will table the next motion together with Mrs Ellemeet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good cooperation and coordination between health care and care workers in the neighbourhood, carers and volunteers is essential to identify potential problems and provide the right assistance;]] [[noting that thirteen (umbrella) organisations have prepared the "Vulnerable Older People at Home" hand-holds for the organisation of care and support for vulnerable elderly people living at home;]] [[calls on the government to encourage local and regional networks to actively use this assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u256	Thank you for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u257	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I'll see if there's any need for a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u258	Yeah, about six, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u259	Then I'll suspend the meeting until 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u260	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u261	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the debate we had in the first term and thank you for adding it in the second period. It is a debate in which, in all keys, the urgency of the task that awaits us here and now has been underlined. In the short term, we have everything we can do. At the same time, we have to realise that it will not be enough to organise our concerns in the future and that there are still strong choices ahead of us. We have part of it really to take in this cabinet period. I expect that we will resume this debate in the budget debate. I deal with the motions and the questions as they have remained or have sometimes been asked again. The Ellemeet/Bergkamp motion in part No. For the sake of clarity, I simply give Chamber judgment, because it is in line with the commitment and can really contribute to the acceleration of that effort. She is also well-suited, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber on this point. Then the motion to part No. 440 by Mrs Bergkamp. The first remark is that I see that mpt and vpt are already beginning to grow quite well. The fame is actually heading in the right direction. Nevertheless, I think we need all these types of funding to meet demand. So perhaps it is right to investigate that awareness more closely, not only with the referees but also with the initiators. I'd like to proceed with this motion and leave the verdict to the Chamber. The Bergkamp/Segers motion in part No. 441 is similar to an earlier motion by your colleague Mr Slootweg and is about strengthening the social infrastructure, actually of all the local initiatives that exist, and actively disseminating the examples of them. I'd be happy to. I think it is very nice and appropriate to do so, so I also leave the judgement to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 442 of Hijink c.s. calls on the government to have the municipalities make performance agreements. It's just beyond what I promised. Whatever I've promised will fit into the House Act, and what your motion requires just doesn't fit into the House Act. This actually requires an amendment to the Housing Act, and that is why I must discourage the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 443.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u262	A brief question about the motion. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u263	Yes, because, of course, that's not true. I'm not proposing a legislative change here. I propose that the Minister make an effort, discuss with the municipalities, and agree with the municipalities and the various parties responsible for achieving performance agreements. I'm not proposing a legislative change here. It is also the way in which the Minister wishes to interpret the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u264	Then it's either one or the other. Either it is exactly what I am going to do, what I have promised and what is in line with the Ellemeet/Bergkamp motion: that I am indeed going to make sure that it comes to agreements and that we are going to support it. Let us not repeat our first-term debate. Either we should be able to impose performance agreements, because that is how I interpret it, and that requires an amendment to the Housing Act. So it is either supporting existing policies, or it requires a change of law. I find it hard to be excited about that. Some motions also tend, after they have been adopted, to mean something more than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u265	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u266	Half the Minister's policy depends on the main lines of agreements and administrative agreements, so I do not see why you could not make such agreements at that level. In my opinion, it is more the political will that is not there than there really is a problem with technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u267	That's not true. There is indeed political will to ensure that it reaches agreements in the region. I have also indicated to you how I am going to do this and how I can do it within the current legal possibilities. A number of things have been added by the motion in part No. 439. But if you think that is insufficient and that it is necessary to table a motion, you seem to mean something more. When it comes to the imposition of performance agreements or the making of performance agreements, it is not possible, within the current design of the Housing Act, to dictate that from the Empire. So if you wish, you will have to have that debate with my colleague Ollongren. Then we go to the motion in part No. 443: calls on the Stimulation Scheme to make Housing and Care accessible to remodeling projects as well. We can do this. I don't think that's the point. There is another point addressed in the Segers motion, namely that a number of initiators are not entirely within the terms of use of the scheme. That is why I have to talk to them according to that motion, and I am happy to do so in order to make that possible. But this, encouraging or making it accessible, is already possible in the case of a resident initiative or a social entrepreneur. So not a regular institution, because they can do it already, but they can do it when it comes to a social entrepreneur or a resident. I therefore believe that this motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u268	The next motion is from Mrs. Sazias. You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u269	Shall I do it right away? That's the motion in part No. 444 and invites the government to organise tailor-made tools. Yes, that is entirely in line with the covenant, if I may at least explain the word 'organise' in such a way that I must ensure that the rule of thumb is followed. We see that it is very often good, more often than in the past, but we also see a number of examples where that is not the case. So I will have to talk to both the industry organisation of the tool supplier and the municipalities. I can't take over the responsibility of the municipality, but I don't think you mean that either. If I may explain it in such a way as to ensure that the rule of thumb of the covenant has to be applied, I would like to leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u270	It was also meant to be the same in the motion in part No. 444. Maybe I should have the motion in part no. 443 on the incentive arrangement. It is not available on the website for renovation projects. You really need to claw through. I will possibly amend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u271	You have the time to vote on Tuesday. But what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u272	When it comes to making it clear in the information that this incentive scheme can also be used for cultivation projects, that is fine. If you change him along that line, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion-Segers/Laan-Selschap in part no. 445. It fits in with this. It calls for changes to the scheme in consultation with a number of social entrepreneurs and residential cooperatives. I'm very much in favour of that, so I'm leaving the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Segers also asked a question that had remained in the first place about the structural financing of mental care. The accessibility of mental care in the home situation must, of course, be made structurally possible. That's what I promised the Chamber. One of the questions is how are we going to get from the temporary financing of the future to the structural financing of the future? Soon, in October, we will discuss with the field the funding possibilities for this. At the beginning of 2020, I can inform the Chamber about this. Then the motion to part No. 446 from Mr. Stoffer and Mrs. Ellemeet. It invites the government to encourage local and regional networks of care for the elderly to make use of this assistance. It's about the hand-off for the Vulnerable Old People at home. I'd love to do that in a lot of ways. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. A question has then been asked by Mr Slootweg about the specialists in old age medicine. The contracting process is still ongoing. You get signals sometimes, but I can't say that I know right now that there may not be enough contracts, because this is still going on. I would like to be informed about this and will send that information to the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u273	We have had a debate before, and this was also about the requirement that health insurance companies often make that you have to make €100,000 in turnover. I understand very well that this is not entirely feasible for manyzzp's who, as a specialist in the care of the elderly, are involved in the construction ofzzp. They'll fall out of it. I would regret that, because I think it can really mean something in the first line of cooperation with the GP. I hope that signal can be resolved in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u274	That signal came from the Monitoring Contracting District Nursing, where either a turnover requirement orzzp'ers didn't work properly. But the last monitor shows that the health insurance companies are playing into it. So I'm going to look into the extent to which this leads to a problem, again, the contract is currently under way, and I'll let you know what the outcome of that search is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u275	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-7.u276	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
