ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the infrastructure and water resources budget. We shall begin with the first term of the Chamber, but only after I have warmly welcomed the two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	We are going to start quickly and I will be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, do you remember? When the inland waterways were the most reliable form of travel and transport? When King Willem I invested heavily in inland waterways and had beautiful canals dug? When rough skippers got the appreciation they deserved? Mr. Chairman. The PVV would like to kick this budget off with a cry for help. It is extremely bad for our Dutch inland waterway transport, so bad that if our cry for help does not get through to the Minister and this government does not take direct and concrete action, it is simply ready for these skippers. Then their ship can be sold far below the price or brought to the demolition and these proud entrepreneurs await a shady and uncertain future. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there is very little left. The PVV has been talking to those skippers from among others the General Schippers Association. One thing is clear: the water is on their lips. They are affected by skipped regulations, European directives, high costs due to absurd sustainability projects and impoverishing waterways. Small inland waterway transport seems to be falling apart at the end of the year and the rest will soon follow, while this minister is full of modal shift. It's to be ashamed of you. The PVV wants this minister to exchange these fine words for fine deeds and will therefore table a motion for a resolution to this budget. Mr President, then this Minister has gone completely mad by saddled the motorist with that retarded nitrogen problem. The crazy GroenLinks idea to throw down the speed on our roads is carried out without comment by this VVD Minister. Jesse Klaver orders and Cora van Nieuwenhuizen follows. The PVV is apparently the only party with a bit of a healthy sense of farming. That is why we will be tabling a motion to this budget to ensure that the speed limit on our motorways is actually going up. With those insufferable sneuns who want to turn the whole of the Netherlands into one big snail trail with their left-wing bullshit. Just gas on the shelf and go, and let those greenbirds go on the electric bike. Mr. Chairman. Once we've settled this, more space on the highway will also be welcome. Some extra asphalt wouldn't be an unnecessary luxury anyway, even since the ANWB has already indicated that the Netherlands under the nose of this minister is changing into one major traffic infarct. But what else can you expect from a minister who finds television more interesting than the General Reviews? It's so sad. What about the N35, for example? Every time, the PVV has to put the Minister back to work to get it right, and every time it doesn't work out. Is she going to carry out this motion and give priority to this road or is she too busy with her European hobbies? Mr. Chairman. The sense of sustainability of this cabinet grabs the ordinary man and woman in all kinds of ways. It is true that Dutch pump holders are obliged to offer E10 thanks to this cabinet. For many small pump holders this means that they can no longer offer Euro 95, which means that people who cannot refuel E10 are the victims. It has already been shown that E10 is not at all better for people and the environment. But no, ideological dogmas are again elected over common sense. Is the Minister or the Secretary of State prepared to reverse this measure immediately, so that Euro 95 becomes simply available to our vehicles again? Mr. Chairman. It's not just the road transport that gets caught. Our rail freight sector is also affected by this half-baked infrastructure policy. Continuous bullshit with ProRail ensures that entrepreneurs get a pinch where they should be entitled to support. The PVV therefore wishes to make the following proposal again: freeze the user fee for rail freight until it is back on track. Well, that's fair enough, we think. Our motion calling for this could be a good opportunity for this Secretary of State to show that she has a heart for the logistics sector. Mr President, the next hot issue in the transport sector. As a reverse Robin Hood, this minister is about to empty our transport operators' pockets with her truck tax, and then hand all that money back out to her friends in the sustainability sector. The truckers have to bleed because this cabinet is dancing to the tune of the left-wing climate madness. The PVV wants this truck tax to go off the table today and that this communist money-stealing business immediately leads to a fat stripe. Mr. Chairman. This year, the PVV declared war on the rig in our public transport. Although that war is still raging in all its intensity, some battles have now been won. For example, we are pleased that our call for boas to be able to perform in shops at the station has had an effect and that this absurd obstacle has now finally been lifted. It is also good to hear that the app alert in public transport is a success. It is a good thing to involve travellers in social security in public transport. The PVV would like to see this app alert rolled out nationwide. Can the Secretary of State tell us if she has already arranged this roll-out and has arranged it with all carriers? Mr. Chairman. Why are OV-data still not used optimally to get a complete picture of crime figures? There is a motion adopted by the Chamber which simply asks for those figures to be shared. Because public transport crime is unacceptable. After all, you want to know on which routes the most problems are, so that we can be fully present with our enforcement? In addition, you just want optimal information about different transport movements in the Netherlands, so you can do the right work. Is the Secretary of State really on top of this now? And why is certain information from, for example, telecom companies no longer available to the Ministry or ProRail? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it still happens too often that our public transport is not entirely safe. Black riders, asos or violent asylum equipment extract the blood from under the nails and must be dealt with hard as far as PVV is concerned. For us there are those selfish lawbreakers who think they can get on the bus or train with their burqa, because they want to stand above the law as a supporter of a violent ideology. The PVV will therefore put forward a motion to enforce the burka ban much more strictly during this budget debate. It is not possible for companies to turn a blind eye to this or to put a knife in their backs if they do have the guts to point a burka at the door. The PVV also wants public transport to be banned as a whole. That must be possible. It's crazy for words that a bastard who sells a boa, engineer or conductor a smack, gets on another train or bus after a couple of hours. The PVV will therefore come forward tomorrow with a motion to change this. Mr. Chairman. Safety doesn't stop at the station or the train. Road safety on the road and the cycle path must also be a spearhead of public policy. It is good that this Minister says that she has the ambition to ensure zero road deaths, but then not words, but deeds. Those words have to look familiar to her, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	(NL) Mr President, Mr Van Aalst wants traffic offenders to be dealt with harshly. What does he think of traffic offenders who cripple highways and drive tractors here, and who fail to comply with the agreements with the police? Do they have to be dealt with as hard as they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	It seems logical to me that anyone who does not comply with the law should be dealt with as hard as possible. But I would like to add that we must be careful to draw conclusions when people are accompanied by Rijkswaterstaat under those red houses by, and just report that. I know what you're referring to, but I've also seen reports of Rijkswaterstaat. It says: exceptionally, we accompany these protesters under the red crosses. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm careful, but everyone has to obey the law, including protesters. But I do find it special to hear this from the Party for Animals. I have seen several situations where the Party for Animals was something else in that regulation. Mr President, I shall continue. Wanting to steer the way as quickly as possible, for example, that Stint, with all the consequences of that, would of course never have liked. This is, of course, a totally bad example of how road safety policy should work. But we are going to talk about this shortly now that the OVV report is in place. Mr. Chairman. The PVV would like to laugh at the greatest joke of the century, if it wasn't to cry. Alexander penthouse Pechtold has become the new director of the CBR. The man who had to leave his own party because he was way past his political expiration date must now solve the huge mess at the CBR, a mess that affects our people every day. The PVV is disgusted by this. This minister is succumbing to the pressure of the job carousel. Because that's what it is. Nothing more and nothing less. Mr. Renovation Specialist had finished his last art snatch and called his party friends, who did arrange for him to play director for a while. It's to be ashamed of you. Therefore, the PVV has no confidence whatsoever that this pocket filler is going to put things in order. Mr. Chairman. It has never been a secret that the PVV loves the Dutch mountainers and the KNRM. The men and women who work here guarantee safety on the water. This is why the PVV has also supported the conflict between the shipowners and the KNRM. The minister's been working on this. We would like to know how things stand now. Has the conflict finally been resolved by the end of the year? Finally, Mr President. The PVV wants to conclude with the message that the Netherlands deserves so much more than what is on the table. More safety in our public transport with less aggressive thugs. More road safety and fewer road deaths. More appreciation for the work done by all our heroes in the logistics sector and less fees and regulations. More control and order on the CBR and less scandalous abuses. More asphalt and less speed limits. In short: more, more, more PVV! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The budget Infrastructure and Water State. We will focus on water, water safety and infrastructure in a moment, but first on the budget. The Netherlands is a beautiful country in a water-rich delta. A significant part of it is below sea level. If you look at our infrastructure, it's pretty well arranged. The rest of the world's gonna be watching how we do that with each other around here. Look how beautiful this Dutch landscape is: rich in nature and water. Everyone will agree to that. Or fly over our country and see in a bird's-eye the huge variety: from historic inner cities to new construction districts, from polders and dunes to forests. In the Netherlands it is nice to live and recreate well. This is a major achievement in a densely populated country with more than 17 million people. Of course, all these people have to live and work somewhere. In our free time we want to work out, to family, enjoy nature, shop or grab a terrace. To visit all these places, we move around all the time. The mobility that this entails is not a reason for shame, but is simply very much needed. It's the freedom to move, to develop yourself. Mobility is a choice that liberals appreciate. Whether you go by car, bike or public transport, or in any way, we don't really care. As long as it is safe and comfortable and preferably with as little delay as possible. The fact is, it's getting more and more crowded. The number of traffic jams grew by 20% last year and it continues to increase. The cost of the main road network alone is now almost EUR 4 billion. Also the traffic on the railways continues to increase with a growth of more than 4%. The timetable can hardly be extended in a few years' time. The bike is popular in the cities. Out there, people like to take public transport when there is. The volume of freight traffic also increased. We all benefit from the port of Rotterdam and our inland waterways. Flying is popular and brings us a lot, including international connections with the rest of the world. That's why we're an attractive country. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet pays a great deal of money for the management, maintenance and construction of our infrastructure. As far as the VVD is concerned, that may be more. Let me mention some successes of the past few years. Take the A13/A16. Take the A24. Take the Blankenburg tunnel, which we set in motion. Take the broadening of the A67, the A20 and the A15. Take the decision that was last week, I believe, about the A7. There is also a great deal going on in rail and inland waterways. But also think of other things, such as signaling in the files through matrix boards for safety. Or the arrival of the number of truck parkings, which has been greatly expanded. Last year, we hammered on that. You can see it's happening. The salvagers are also faster on the spot, so that the traffic jams get shorter. Then there is the megaproject announced by the Minister himself when it comes to the maintenance and renovation of bridges and viaducts in the Netherlands. There's real work to be done. There's a lot going on. All these developments in the area of mobility are accelerating. Think of the developments in cars and trucks that automatically run in columns via new technologies and via ICT. The applications are really endless. The role of the government is then one that should provide our residents and businesses with a good network of infrastructure: safe, reliable, where you can get from A to B in a good way, and also a little fast and clean, in a way you choose. This applies to our entire country, from Groningen to Zeeland. It's not traffic, it's traffic. No overcrowded trains with delay, but a public transport where you also have a seat and the certainty that you will arrive on time. So make your own choices; don't force anything. As far as I am concerned, there is no right or wrong either. Don't pay extra and especially easy. The VVD wants to tackle all these challenges and we realize that innovation can help us do so. We are proud of what we have achieved so far. A lot's going well, but a lot can be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	I do get a little confused by the words of the VVD. Is this a preview of what she's gonna do? For everything that Mr Dijkstra of the VVD just sketches, he did not do. He's brought 130 back to 100. Billions have been cut under the VVD and a tip has come back. The maintenance has never been so overdue. Was this a preview of what the VVD will do in the future? Or were you also attacked by opening up those coffee shops under Rutte's government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	No, definitely not the last one. Then you don't know me well; I'm against it. There's a lot going well. I just outlined some sort of overview of the Netherlands. The whole world is coming to see how we've managed our infrastructure. We'll do it right. We also invest heavily, but more is needed. I agree with you and there are also major challenges towards the future to ensure that we all remain mobile in a way that we choose and with which we keep it affordable and, above all, move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	I like the words of the VVD that she wants to do everything and that it all has to do more, but when is the VVD going to do that? For I have just outlined to you that you have brought 130 back to 100 so far and that maintenance has never been so overdue. When is the VVD really going to invest in that driver? You used to be there for the driver, but you haven't been there for years. So admit that you are no longer there for the motorist or just come up with hard facts and come up with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	I will now come to my ode to the motorist, the key theme of my speech, as well as road safety. These are the two things that I am going to emphasise after this introduction. With the arrival of the coalition agreement, there was, of course, additional money for infrastructure. If you add that up, that's 3.2 billion. That's a hell of a lot. I must honestly say that it is also quite difficult to get all that spent, because you know that projects are just taking a very long time. You also need enough capacity and knowledge to do that properly, but we are busy doing that. Now, if you see what's happening, what's happening and what's going to happen, then I can't say anything else but that this cabinet is pretty quick. It is up to me and you to keep the cabinet sharp in that and to ensure that we can do more within the time we have before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	Before Mr Dijkstra starts his ode to the motorist, I would like to talk about public transport. Because before Mr. Dijkstra started all the A'tjes and N'tjes, he said in a subtle way that people would like to use public transport "if it is there." That's the subtlety that matters to me. Since the government agreement also states that public transport must be a good alternative throughout the Netherlands, I would like to ask Mr Dijkstra what this government has done so far to improve regional transport, which is used by a large number of people, and at what points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	Perhaps it is good to emphasise that I am speaking together with Mr Ziengs. As well as there are two cabinet people, there are two of us. I therefore suggest that you save that question for Mr Ziengs. He's doing it. He's doing it. He's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing I am focusing in particular on road safety and the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	I'd love to, but I'll look at the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	Then we don't count this interruption. That's how cosmopolitan we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr Ziengs also gives you a better answer. So that's only good. He can think about this for a while. Mr President, I shall continue, if I may. Last year, I talked about "blowing down the file monster." You might remember that. I think that made the Fat Van Dale. In any case, we must continue to do so, because these traffic jams continue to increase. So this year I'm taking an ode to the car and I'm choosing road safety, because to start with, the car is a big part of our lives. The car is freedom. The car is a liberal product, Mr President; you should appeal to it. The car is an ultimate means of transport. That will remain so for a long time and there is nothing wrong with that, because alternatives are often not there or not enough or the experience is just less than with your own vehicle, which allows you to decide where you are going, with whom and via which route, at the time you want to go. If you have a car and if you fill it up, you'll be in half a day in half of Europe. So that's freedom. That's why that car fits so well with the VVD. The car is also a personal property for daily commuting. A car brings you home safely at night after a party or helps you if you have to move or if you go on vacation. People's love for their cars I'm one of them myself. That makes sense, because a car also determines to a large extent who you are or who you want to be. The car is also a valuable asset. It is often the second major recurring issue per month. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is the second most expensive country in Europe when it comes to car tax. I regret that, because the fleet is unnecessarily obsolete. People in the Netherlands especially choose with their wallets instead of with their hearts. The affordability of the car is also severely under pressure. If you're a car driver, you're scared of the monthly fixed loads and the price at the pump. I refueled Euro 95 the last time I could. In fact, I couldn't find it anymore, because it was gone from the pump. I had to refuel the expensive premium gasoline. You've lost almost €100 and if your car doesn't like the E10 we introduced together and that Euro 95 is no longer available, that's a problem. Can the Secretary of State indicate within a few months how the transition to that E10 went? I have the feeling that this Euro 95 has really been phased out. What was intended and how did it actually go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	An ode to the car and then Mr Dijkstra says that it is the second major cost of a household to own a car. Do you agree with me that we should not so much tax car ownership as car use?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	I would very much like to see driving become cheaper and accessible to more people. I want to prevent this from happening, and that is likely to happen, especially if you get what you want, that driving becomes something for the elite, because it is precisely the middle class that needs that car, just to go to work. We must keep driving affordable for everyone in the Netherlands who depends on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	I still hear a yes, because by not taxing car ownership anymore, but just using it, you make it possible for very large groups, including the middle incomes you are talking about, to make more use of their mobility. So that should appeal to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	We know this debate and we will have it many more times in the coming period. You're talking about charging and that sort of thing. Look, of course, you have to make certain conditions. People must have an alternative, the revenues that the car brings must all benefit the mobility of cars, which is not the case now, and I am going to come up with this and it should not be more expensive. The moment you install a button like that, it's dangerous. So I'm hesitant about that. Mr. Chairman. Just ordinary people often can't do without the car and it shouldn't be that only the rich people who vote for GroenLinks or D66 can enjoy the car. Does the cabinet share the importance of the motorist and what does that prove? So I also strongly oppose car bullying, which often happens on the left. Like they hate cars! Absurd parking rates in cities, permits are denied, parking spaces are removed, environmental zonings while the air quality doesn't even need it, while you have an approved APK. A big annoyance! We all know the cities where you shouldn't be with your car. Hasn't this freedom of policy for municipalities just gone too far? Let us do all this here, or do we set limits, conditions and rules? Think also of the proposal by GroenLinks and the Christian Union for a carless Sunday. The government isn't gonna decide for us how people spend their Sundays, whether you're gonna play sports or go to your family? The VVD sees here really zero tasks for the government and also not in facilitating this towards the municipalities. I wonder how the cabinet feels about this. Mr. Chairman. If we think free choices are important and want more investment, why not let people drive on an extra highway, for example on poles? Above the toll, not below. Then maybe you're stuck in traffic, but at least you have a choice. Infrastructure that can recoup itself, that can finance itself. I'd like a response. How do we achieve more infrastructure together? 'Cause I think that's a goal. The VVD also wants to continue investing in roads. This is necessary to curb the congestion sample, but it is also, of course, possible to improve current and future road use through smart techniques and better procurement. It takes a lot of time to realize that, and I understand that we do not have all these innovations, but I do think that we should continue to look at them. I heard something about a sustainable asphalt process, but apparently that is not yet in the Rijkswaterstaat's handbook and cannot be included in tenders. So how do we stimulate innovations in the field of home soil infrastructure without running major risks? In my opinion, some infra-projects also fit perfectly in a competitive Netherlands, especially when we have a traffic infarct later on, because that seems to be coming. Then we have a lot of plans, but all those plans will be more expensive. So the question is whether we are still letting the social cost-benefit analyses prevail, the congestion top 50 and the national market and capacity analyses. Are they still leading when it comes to our infrastructure projects that maintain the earning capacity of the Netherlands? How do both directors see that towards the investment fund that might be coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr Dijkstra wants to be able to drive fast by car. Is Mr Dijkstra, like the Animal Party, in favour of a generic reduction in speed? Because in fact, all experts agree that if you reduce the speed anywhere from 130 km/h or 120 km/h to 100 km/h you have fewer deaths, the traffic is more regular, so you have fewer traffic jams, you have less nitrogen emissions, you use less fuel and in many cases you arrive quickly at your destination. So Mr Dijkstra, the VVD agrees with me that we should actually move towards a generic speed reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	No, that won't be necessary. You're not getting to your destination before. There's been an investigation from the Court of Auditors that says you're a little faster at 130. So I'd like to stick to that, despite what some other people in the paper say about that. That 130 is important to us, but perhaps you are referring to the nitrogen debate and such a thing you should not look generically for the whole of the Netherlands. So you have to see where those natural areas are, where you should do that and what effect it has. If it doesn't work, we won't slow down. If it does have an effect and you can pull things off in Natura 2000 areas that can't now, then that's a consideration, but let's take a good look at what effect it has and not just say: this is good for the whole of the Netherlands. Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	Yes. Then there's the financials. I already promised a little. The motorist, as I say to D66, generates 20 billion in car-related taxes every year, while the same motorist only gets 3 billion in road and maintenance. The VVD finds this affair crooked. So this motorist pays not only for public transport, which we all consider important, but also 14 billion in matters such as education, development cooperation, security and so on. The percentage of GDP of infra decreased; ING has shown this neatly. Of course, there was a crisis and we had to cut back everywhere, but now that the effects and damage to the flow of people and goods in our economy are getting more and more, more and more than the investments we make, I also think it is logical that the mobility alliance says that you should actually invest 3 billion a year. Then I understand that this is not possible now, but towards a new era of government it is something we really need to think about. So what steps can we take towards such a new period and what do we do with the Mobility Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	I have listened for a long time to the ode to the motorist and also to all the entrapments towards GroenLinks and the proposals we are making, but I do have a question. Mr Dijkstra likes to map the costs for the motorist and thinks it should be fair. That seems incredibly important to me. Is it not therefore right that we should also seriously look at the 12 billion in environmental damage caused by traffic and that we should take it seriously in the policy weighings we make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	You can do a lot of research and you can call a lot of amounts. If you're talking about environmental damage, it's harder to quantify it than when it comes to what you physically put from your wallet into infrastructure because there's an invoice on the other hand, whereas compared to the 12 billion, if that's what you're saying, there's not an invoice directly. What I am in favour of is a level playing field between the modalities. I have now given an ode to the car but, of course, all the modalities matter; Mr Ziengs is going to deal with that in a moment. But if you make a comparison, you have to do it honestly and then you also have to look at what every euro you have brings benefits and disadvantages. Then you should do the same for O.V. The driver is currently paying the cost of the DVD. In addition to the fact that you have to buy a train ticket yourself, that government also subsidises that ticket. I think it is essential to stress that the people in the DV do not pay a fair price.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	A long answer, in which I hear only in the first part that Mr Dijkstra is questioning the figures that come from the PBL. I hope he does not follow the same path as the farmers who question the nitrogen figures at RIVM. Let us seriously consider the assessment of institutions such as the PBL that seriously calculate this and say that there is 12 billion in environmental damage in a cost-benefit analysis for all the decisions we are going to take under the Mobility Fund. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think you should be careful with numbers. Sometimes it can't hurt to name them, to show the relationship and the crookedness of them. I think there's always an account on it. But exactly how you map that, that's a very complicated one. I know your party also thinks there's a subsidy on fossil industry. And then it is said: that is a kind of subsidy, because they have an exemption. Yeah, if you look at the definitions of that, you can really disagree on that. So I don't share that opinion with you either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	I would like to go straight to the last thing Mr Dijkstra said about subsidies for the fossil industry. What we see, too, is that this fossil industry, for example Shell, is making tax deals with the Tax Administration, which means that the government has already missed 8 billion at Shell alone. The question to Mr Dijkstra is the following. Car taxes are worth 20 billion. He believes that the car owner should pay less and therefore wants that amount of 20 billion to be reduced. But does the VVD agree with me that we can think about this, but that we should then get the money from multinationals like Shell, who both pollute and receive subsidies and also make tax deals, which means that the Netherlands misses a lot of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	We're a little off. I am now referring to the budget for Infrastructure and Water State. I think those other things will come back to other budgets. Above all, I want to keep the cost of car mobility manageable. I'd love to see it go down a little bit, but I also understand that that's hard, because then you have to have cover too. You've just made a proposal to that effect. But I don't want to make driving more expensive. That's my plea. There's a pretty good chance that's gonna happen. I want to keep an eye out for that, because it only makes driving something for the rich. I think that's something we share: that we shouldn't have. Driving must remain accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	I agree with Mr Dijkstra, which we share with the VVD. But the question I am asking here is very concrete. Where does the VVD get the money: from multinationals like Shell or from the car owner who wants to drive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	Then I'll answer the same question again. I don't want to make driving much more expensive if I don't have to. We are already the second most expensive country in Europe when it comes to car taxes. That's gonna get us a hell of a lot of money. I think the ratio is crooked when you look at what the driver gets in return. So I advocate more investment in infrastructure. And I'll leave the other for your own account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	I would like to return to Mr Dijkstra's ode to the current mobility agenda and to the car. I'll agree to that last one. I remember how proud I was when I got my first car. She was a rusty bitch, but that aside. It is also the PvdA who has fought for the worker to get a car. But I wonder whether Mr Dijkstra has sufficient regard for the downside of car use. Isn't he back to the future? We must also be aware of the negative fall-out the cars have, such as space fittings and pollution. Also on the mobility agenda. Shouldn't we be moving that agenda? Shouldn't we have an agenda where you get a shift towards more public transport and fewer cars, giving people who want to drive the car space but also a cleaner and more sustainable alternative to the driver?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	Alternatives, that's what I'm here for. But they have to be there. But for 80% of the Dutch, this alternative is always more expensive or not nearby. Whether it takes much longer or is less comfortable. My ode to the car is that the car offers all that freedom. And it is true what you say. I read in an article recently that Mr Den Uyl was one of the instigators of 'a car for everyone'. I think I was 1 year old then; I don't know exactly. Of course, that's how we've seen it in the past. The car is indeed a great asset. I'm glad we share that love for the car. And even though your car was rusty and maybe old, you probably still have a picture in an album somewhere to cherish that love from time to time and that brings with it beautiful memories. So I'm glad the PvdA also loves the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	Joop den Uyl is cited. Joop den Uyl was a thinker who was always able to adjust his thinking in time. My question to the VVD is: is the VVD able to adjust the thinking? Because to argue one-dimensionally for continuing the current mobility agenda... It won't solve the traffic jams. The problem of congestion is only growing. And the difference between region and Randstad is also increasing. Because of the NMCA, the National Market and Capacity Analysis, it is always the projects in the Randstad that have priority. How is the VVD going to solve this: the gap between Randstad and region and the new mobility needs that arise and which are still different from motorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	I certainly want to look at it very modern. The VVD is a modern, innovative party. That's what I'm trying to call it. If that didn't work out well, then I'll do it again. It's so, so, so. It's not just grey asphalt, which you might immediately think about at the VVD. It's of course also the use of data, apps and the application I've tried to call that a little bit... and invest in...................................................................................................................................... If you're going to look at what the Netherlands looks like, you're talking about the Randstad and the rest of it, you'll see that car mobility outside the Randstad is particularly attractive, while within Randstad you're short of space and large transport flows. In general, this will make a little more sense to start with. I am concerned that it is affordable and that people have a choice, and preferably an alternative. That is what we are doing in a green way. That is worth another debate, but you know all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u37	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u38	Then I come to road safety. Last year, we launched a major amendment to the Road Safety Strategy for EUR 10 million with the coalition together. What happened to that? How far along is that? This week there was a report of the increase in the number of victims on the highway, including distraction and lack of enforcement in traffic. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is not acceptable. Where is this enforcement on the highway? We have previously insisted on the enforcement of drug, drink and applutters. So we're taking big steps there now. We have also invested heavily in the N-roads, but the highway still requires some attention. Can this not happen, as SWOV also said, the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid, because of the fact that traffic cocksuckers are simply not thrown away? I've been through a sample myself with the police at the wheel, from a bus like that. One in five had a cell phone in his hand. Back in the day, you saw the obvious presence of agents in blue on the street and you were immediately pulled over. Then you got a ticket or worse, your driver's license was reclaimed for hard driving, bumper sticking or whatever. Then you learned your lesson, but nowadays the police have 100 of those fast Audi's. I understand they're not all driving yet. Why don't I just see them on the highway? Can't the driving training for those cops be completed faster? Because we want to get those traffic hoods off the road and we also want visible control. I don't care how you do it or what you call it. The point is, the chance of getting caught is going up. Can the Minister, together with her colleague, Grapperhaus, for Justice and Security, come up with some sort of plan for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u39	We share the need for road safety as a CDA with the VVD. The VVD has undoubtedly also seen our proposal in which we say: go in particular to tackle those traffic hoods and also use the resources that we actually already have, for example the cameras that hang over the road, to increase the chances of getting caught. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u40	I read it in the media. I am going to listen so well to your speech and the explanation. Of course you do have issues with privacy, but in general we are not opposed if you can catch people and if a camera is used for that. It's about safety and getting assholes off the road. I know about the coalition. Let me look at the colleagues who are on the phone; they will be a little more nuanced in that. But maybe we can hang out in that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u42	Since most accidents involving older people are really happening on the electric bicycle, I ask what is happening in concrete terms. Last week there was another article, about the number of injured who increased by 31% after a bicycle accident, especially the elderly on a bicycle. I ask the Minister to take action to reduce the number of serious victims. That is why I would also like to draw particular attention to road safety in provinces and municipalities. How, for example, do VNG and IPO mobilize municipalities and provinces to make free bike paths faster and N-roads without obstacles? Because if 80 to 90% of the victims fall in municipalities and provinces, then we have to get to work there. Now infrastructure is often a closing point for these municipalities. How do we bring this infrastructure together to a higher level of security? I would also like to prevent us from having any money left for the implementation of new projects, because it is already difficult, and that all the money goes to maintenance and renovation in the near future. So I also want to pick up new routes, such as the A50 between Brabant and Gelderland. I would ask the Minister to keep up the momentum, despite all the challenges that exist. I've got two more pieces of that. Something about water and aviation. Do we not forget about inland waterway transport in the case of freight transport? Can the Minister come up with a plan to optimise the number of inland waterway terminals in the Netherlands in order to obtain better flows of goods over water? There's no traffic and there's seven times as much there as now. I have said it before: the Waal is a highway of water. I would also like to express my concerns about the impact of legislation on water safety projects, such as the PFAS and the other nitrogen problems that can currently make water safety projects impossible. My colleague, Mr Ziengs, will look into it in a moment. Transport of dangerous substances. I find tubes very interesting. It's, like, the fifth modality, but it's a modality that's often forgotten. I find it absurd that we allow trains or lorries to run with dangerous substances if we can just do so via a safe tube connection. A tube connection to a chemical complex like Chemelot has recently been killed by a chamber motion. I think that's bad. Can the Minister contact her colleague from the Interior about this particular project? I don't think we're gonna be able to do this by road or by rail if we can get it through a pipe. Finally, about water. How are the stress tests going from municipalities to water pollution? What are the consequences if vital infrastructure is flooded, something that is not unthinkable? And then how do we protect important tunnels and how do we prevent roads from becoming impenetrable? Finally, aviation, Mr President. Aviation in the Netherlands can no longer be locked. After many reports, there will be more and more people. It is time to make real political choices. Investment security is needed towards the sector and clarity towards the residents. An early opening of Lelystad Airport is indispensable. The VVD would like to receive the promised report, which shows that Lelystad Airport will mainly act as a landing airport. When can we get that report? Given the scarcity and enthusiasm of airlines, I am confident that this outcome will also be positive. Aviation is also vulnerable, because it is of course an international story. What was built in 100 years at Schiphol and in the vicinity of Schiphol can be lost. So I think that aviation should go along with its time, but then you have to offer a future perspective. People in the Netherlands also like to fly and the VVD is fine with that. We are not of the lifted finger to deny or prohibit anything. Innovation and sustainability are possible and also offer great opportunities. I mention biokerosin, the research into new hydrogen technology that students are working on and the development of knowledge for the future. Here too, we are leading the way, or at least we want to be and remain sure. Mr. Chairman. My message: keep the Netherlands mobile. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Ziengs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After Mr Dijkstra's speech, I actually intended to make a warm speech on public transport. I am going to do that further in my speech, but I am now choosing a subject that I announced last week in the legislative consultation, namely PFAS. This is the dust group that stops earthmoving projects, with direct effects on waterboards, construction, transport and related companies. Because, Chairman, the little brother of the PAS is born! In July this little brother saw the light of day, because in Europe PFAS became one of the most worrying substances. In the first week of the summer recess, our diligent Secretary of State informed us by letter that a provisional framework for action was in place. In the general consultation Environment, right after the summer recess, we also asked the Secretary of State for this. This framework of action should remove projects which might fall silent, but the framework was counterproductive. Almost immediately after the letter, local authorities withdrew permits and did not grant any new ones. The disastrous consequences of these panic reactions are evident: transport companies, dredging companies, earthmoving companies and businesses around the sectors are ringing the bell. Jobs are at stake! How far are we gonna get? The Netherlands can and must not be locked! My party therefore calls for a number of specific and urgent actions. First of all, I want a clear overview of the projects that have fallen silent and a plan of action to get them back on track quickly. This Secretary of State must be in charge of that. I would also like an overview of the standards used abroad for the dumping of land and dredging sludge. Are we like the Netherlands again? Secondly, the Secretary of State has a responsibility to ensure that the Netherlands does not close. The Secretary of State expects to be able to reach a final framework in March 2020 on the basis of measurement data now collected by RIVM. However, there are plenty of data, including at the PFAS Expertise Centre which was established several years ago. I've asked the industry to provide that data to the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr Ziengs is talking about PFAS. Now that we've been talking about that for a while, I think it's actually good to say what that is. It is all substances, chemicals, which are non-degradable, which cause cancer, which degrades livers, which can blind people. Toxic substances, it's just poison. If you say: the Netherlands cannot be locked, do you think that there can be built in places where there is too much poison in the ground? Or that that toxic soil should be transported? You can distance yourself from the temporary framework of action, but that is the framework that has been established that it is now safe and that something can happen at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u46	It appears that Mr Paternotte did not attend the technical briefing, as it stressed that it was not carcinogenic. So let us not fear each other here with things that have not yet been scientifically proven. What is true is that they are fabrics that are used daily in rainwear, in lotion, creams, in short, in everything we put on our skin. Apparently, there's the dust in there. It is a collection and the question is ultimately what happens when these substances start to connect, because groundwater moves or water moves. What's its connection to health going to do? There's no record of that at all. In that respect, I think we should not be afraid of each other, because in the end, in that technical briefing, too, I told you, there was no risk of cancer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u47	I'm really worried when MPs here think I know better than scientists. We're in a country where we're still cleaning up asbestos residues. Asbestos is in our homes and it's a cancer beget. We're still cleaning up the remains of gas stations, all of which at the bottom couldn't collect waste. And now you say: I want to build and I think that the framework of action should not get in the way. Do you think it is safer to listen to the standard that independent RIVM scientists advise us, or would you rather listen to the Member of Parliament Ziengs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u48	It is a very special story that Mr Paternotte tells. We must listen to a standard that RIVM is going to advise us, but that standard is not there! That's also my thesis in the whole story. If there's no standard yet, how the hell are you gonna build? So we have to make sure that we reach a standard. That is my answer to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u49	Ms Schröder
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u50	Kröger, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u51	Kröger, excuse me. Why am I saying Schröder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u52	And then we're still family, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I am really listening with increasing amazement because it concerns a group of substances, one of which has long been banned, PFOS. PFOA was a ZZS a long time ago. GenX is the only recently added. These are substances that are considered to be very worrying substances in Europe, and also in the Netherlands. Toxic, potentially carcinogenic, hormonal, liver effects. I was in that same session, that technical briefing, and that's what I was told. That's also what I read in the pieces of the RIVM. Then it is perfectly normal to test, if someone wants to move land, build a residential area, build a children's playground, turn it into farmland, whether that dust is in that land? That is what the temporary framework of action requires, that the precautionary principle, the standstill principle, be applied. You're gonna see if it's in there and the place where you're moving it shouldn't get any worse. That's perfectly normal for a substance like that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u55	It is perfectly normal for substances to be measured. Mrs Kröger refers to PFOS, PFOA, GenX et cetera, which has already been subject to very different standards, higher standards than those currently laid down for the transfer of land. That's a very strange fact. With regard to the total collective name PFAS, which covers all these substances, we see that with that temporary framework of action the local authorities all put the heels in the sand and say: we are not going to do anything. Where it was the intention of the Secretary of State to remove the matter, we see an opposite effect. It's all stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u56	I really recommend that Mr Ziengs should be better informed on this dossier. When we talk about PFAS, three substances are measured, two of which have long been part of the ZZS. PFOS is even subject to a stricter regime under the Stockholm Convention. GenX has been added last and what the temporary framework of action requires is that it is measured and that if it is moved, it should not make the local situation worse. I think that any sane person who takes RIVM and science seriously should agree with this. I really hope that Mr Ziengs will support the Secretary of State in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u57	I think we've looked into the same files, but as parties we have a different approach. It will be. You can create a very great fear with each other, but we also know that the substances we are talking about have been in our soil for 50 years. This means that you have to have a clear framework that you can go on with to prevent all these construction projects from falling silent. That's the thrust of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr Ziengs says it right. The substances are in our soil for about 50 years, in our environment. That's why we have to stop once. The temporary legal framework drawn up by the Secretary of State does not provide that stop. That stop came about because we didn't do anything about it for 50 years. That's why some construction projects aren't happening right now. I would really ask Mr Ziengs, like many Dutch people, to look at health and the environment and not to go off on the subject of building projects. Our health, our environment, our body are also very valuable to us. I invite the VVD to put those glasses on for once and not be the advocate for business without bringing the people along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr Laçin puts it very black and white. We have always said that we put health at the top. The argument that these substances have been in the ground for 50 years does not mean that we now suddenly have to stop everything at once. People like to get a job. Companies like to be able to go on. That's what we're looking for space for, the reasonable space. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u60	There's been a lot of interruptions, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u61	So be it, Mr. Chairman. What I want to give back to Mr Ziengs is that not the Members of Parliament present to me and to me the images of fear, but that the VVD does so by immediately stating that all kinds of jobs are on the way. For those who work with these substances day in and day out, it is important that we handle their health well. By doing nothing but scare-making here and saying that jobs are lost without taking the health of all those workers, it makes clear where the VVD is in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u62	A survey has been carried out from the branches. They did a really fast quick scan. Thousands of jobs are on the way. I know that if people lose their jobs, at least they can count on a cup of SP soup that's at the door. That doesn't help them at the moment. The matter needs to be put right again, taking into account the standards that apply around us. You will hear that in my contribution. Let's see what a normal standard is so that the industry can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u63	At first I thought Mr Ziengs was out of line, but he said it two or three times, so it is really fundamental. Mr Ziegs said that these substances such as PFAS and PFOA have been in our environment for 50 years. He must say: these substances have only been in our environment for 50 years. They're persistent substances. The moment they are in the environment, they remain in the environment. They're found everywhere, but they've only been made for 50 years. I'd almost say they're everywhere, causing major health damage. All these consequences have not yet been fully mapped out. I'm asking Mr. Seengs if he knows you're not gonna lose those substances, that they're hardly gonna be broken down. Does he know that they can already be harmful in small quantities? Does he know that it is therefore very worrying that these substances are found everywhere after 50 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u64	Whether it's just or not for 50 years, at least we agree that it's 50 years. If you've had those substances in your soil for 50 years, do you have to stop all the projects on a set and jump? Do you have to say: first, make it all clearer and clearer? People lose their jobs because of it. That's the point I want to make. Apart from the health effects, we agree that these substances are in the ground for 50 years. Now we can at least see that we are not going to change the world at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr Ziegs said that PFAS is not carcinogenic. I did a little more checking. It is true that it has not yet been scientifically established that it is carcinogenic, but it is suspected that it causes cancer in animals. However, it has been found that it causes liver failure, that spontaneous abortions can occur and that people can become barren or blind. Then I have the next question. If the Secretary of State is to take action now, is it the first thing that we need to build again, or is it the first thing that the Netherlands should be a safe country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u66	It will be clear that it must be safe, I think I have just said that in the reply. But we all know the example of the coating in the corn can. It did have effects on health, but then you had to eat 20 kilos a day. And I haven't met those people yet. Maybe a stable full of chickens but not a man who ate so much corn that came into contact with that dust. So I think we should talk about that, too. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u67	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you. The soil quality maps in the Netherlands have not yet been updated with the mentioned substances. That must be done with the greatest urgency. A major difference could already be made by upgrading to the original 1 microgram measurement limit. Why doesn't the Secretary of State choose that? A standard can then be set more quickly, if necessary. If this also applies to the soil and the sludge that will be discharged below the 1.5 meter limit, my question is to the Secretary of State. Then the local authorities. What kind of scared pants is that? On the basis of the letter from the Secretary of State, many directors immediately put their heels in the sand. They're afraid to take responsibility. I expect direct action from the Secretary of State here. How is she going to get these waiting drivers moving again in a few weeks? Can existing budget budgets be deployed as soon as possible to help establish background values? Can permits be granted more quickly to land banks which are no longer able to take up land? Can we look at other short-term solutions to get rid of that soil and sludge? A given idea was, among other things, to process extra sand in ongoing road projects. Well, I don't know if that's possible, but there are undoubtedly several ideas from the industry. Are there any known methods for cleaning the soil? Is there anything on the market in terms of innovation? Is this encouraged? If so, can pilots be launched as soon as possible, I ask the Secretary of State. Again, the supposed deadline of mid 2020 to have more clarity is too long. These companies can't wait for that. These are jobs, jobs and more jobs. Bulldozers and excavators should not be parked here in the Binnenhof, they must keep moving. Then I come to the headline about public transport and the environment, and also to the ode to it. I was elected MP for the VVD in this Chamber in 2010. That was also the moment when I got to know and appreciate public transport again. Because as a devout motorist I chose to travel from my hometown by direct train to The Hague. Every year I saw the growth of the number of passengers, resulting in fuller trains, busy stations and even busier platforms. I also saw the innovations. Beautiful new stations, longer and wider platforms and security measures such as gates. Mr. Chairman. It then seems to mop up with the crane open as the numbers of travellers increase but the projects lag behind. From the past, where we went from horse tram to steam locomotive and later to diesel locs and electric trains, I just heard another form of transport: the coach.................................................................................................................................................. We must, of course, continue to pursue innovation; my colleague, Mr Dijkstra, mentioned it when he talked about car mobility. Public transport must be maintained in the future, for example in view of the growth in the use of public transport. For example, providing insight for multiple parties of passenger data, of course with respect for privacy, is a contemporary innovation that can be chased to provide more clarity about traveler movements, so that tailor-made solutions can be offered and problems surrounding traffic can be solved on the track. Another nice and modern use is the hackathon. I had never heard of it and could not find a Dutch word for it either. It is a meeting of technically sensible people, think for example of developers of websites and software, business strategists and designers, to work together on a specific theme. In a predetermined period of time, an innovative and creative solution is then devised for a specific problem in a company. I believe that such meetings could be used to encourage innovation on rail and in public transport. In the north of the Netherlands it was known quite quickly that having only a single rail transport provider is not really blissful. If it had been up to the NS, regional rail transport would have gone down there. Due to good cooperation in the north by the OV-bureau, concessions were issued which increased the number of possibilities, reduced the price relatively and improved the quality of the material used. In the meantime, there are several examples in the regions. With the resulting increase in customer satisfaction, the number of travellers also increased. This provided sufficient reasons to include in the government agreement the objective of four regional lines to be tendered. For now, it looks like this is going to be three. As far as we're concerned, this can't be fast enough. During her term as a Member of Parliament, our Secretary of State was always a warm supporter of the tendering of these regional lines. It is therefore a little surprising that a simple request from the Chamber to examine a specific international connection has suddenly been made that a decision has been taken to allow a night train to run with a supporting sum of nearly 7 million. In the meantime, I have asked written questions about this together with my colleague Amhaouch from the CDA. However, I would like to take this opportunity to answer certain pressing questions more quickly. Has there actually been a need for a train to Vienna that will be on its way for 14 hours? Can there be an interim evaluation? The impression was created that there were no other suppliers with suitable material, but I understood from the market that there were even parties that could extend an existing line in the event of such a subsidy being envisaged. There is now even a threat to the European Court of Justice in connection with a possible unjustified subsidy. What is the Secretary of State's view on this? And how does she deal with the Rebel Group's report, which states a not insignificant footnote that there was not enough time to do full or good research to see if there were, for example, other providers? This looks a lot like a rush job with far-reaching consequences. Are we supposed to see this as a harbinger for the state department's position on the main rail network? Our party has recently been firmly committed to the Eurostar file, for example, a project that can drown itself and in which the government tries to lift restrictions. We did that together with GroenLinks back then. This looks like it's gonna work out. I would also like to mention the Amsterdam-Hamburg-Copenhagen line. A number of times I have informed the Secretary of State that we attach importance to the inclusion of Northern Netherlands in the TEN-T core network, the Trans-European Transport Network, which is still in the comprehensive network. This also works through in other policy areas of the Empire, such as the main structure in the NOVI, the National Environment Vision. Here too, the North Netherlands is excluded. Adding Amsterdam's link to the north, northern Germany and Scandinavia to this core network increases budget opportunities and provides an important boost for cross-border transport. So there is indeed an opportunity here for a possible European funding. Will the Secretary of State make an effort to the European Commission to get the said connection on the TEN-T core network, and in doing so cooperate with the relevant Dutch and German cities in the Northern Netherlands and the Länder? Travelling by train remains an expensive option for many people combined with possession of a car. The price of a ticket is therefore an obstacle for many, despite all kinds of actions and specific offers. Not so long ago we had a discussion in the Chamber about the effects of increasing VAT on travellers' behaviour in the Netherlands. This raises the question of whether or not we can and should look at the efficiency of the Dutch Railways. Is an investigation by, for example, the Court of Auditors or a private party possible? In fact, figures show that employees' wage increases have practically been calculated one-on-one. In business, other things are always taken care of to keep the price competitive. NS may lack incentives to do so. "Possible," I add. We therefore think that an investigation would be a good idea. And the hackathons I mentioned earlier could also come in handy here, in order to come up with a creative, innovative solution. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be on the road to safety. For that safety we are making ourselves strong. In recent years, many measures have been taken to improve safety in public transport. I'll mention the gates at the station, a pilot with an app, intercession from the PVV, and also a discussion on the powers of boas at the station. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what additional measures could be taken. Like the pilot with the app? We are in favour of extending such pilots to include not only the NS but also the other carriers. Another point is the letter requested by the committee concerning a possible extension of the scope of the travel ban to a national travel ban. The PVV has asked for this in a different form. What is the status of this letter requested in April? Via MaaS "That's the abbreviation of Mobility as a Service "I'll come back to the idea regarding the passenger data. Our party strongly supports an independent party/organisation that will manage these passenger data. Too often a competitive consideration now seems to prevail over the benefits of sharing the data. Of course, the privacy of the traveller must be taken into account, as I said earlier. There are advantages to a good platform where all providers can make their travels visible to the traveller and where the most favourable opportunities for the traveller are presented in a clear and fair manner, but this can only be done if an independent party is involved. Is that how the Secretary of State is in it? In fact, it is essential to eliminate any appearance of restrictions of competition. This way MaaS can be better achieved. During the AO Spoor of 25 September last, the Secretary of State for the Transformation of ProRail indicated that the lower regulation and the financial paragraph would be dealt with in conjunction with the proposal. I think that is a really important point. I therefore ask once again for confirmation that the legislative proposal, the lower regulation and the financial paragraph will all be dealt with at the same time. Rail freight transport was also discussed during this AO. The VVD advocates good connections for rail freight transport. In this context, it is in particular that the rates for the Betuweroute will be raised again in 2020. The parking costs for the wagons in Rotterdam are also rising sharply. That concerns us, as does the noises that it would not go well on the signal room Kijfhoek, which controls the entire Betuwe route including the port railway line. We are committed to improving rail freight transport. This must be done safely through routes which avoid as many residential cores as possible and with the latest innovation to reduce noise pollution. Goods by rail do not have to be by road. That saves room for the flow of traffic and cars, which Mr Dijkstra loves so much. A good example are the lubricators, also called "rail-conditioning systems," which apply a biodegradable substance to the rails. The Secretary of State also knows this from her visit to Deventer, where it apparently is now used, I understand. Then there's the head of the environment. The circular targets on cans are achieved. Then I'm talking about the circular targets. For circularly produced plastic bottles this is set at 90%. Yet there are still too many bottles and cans in nature. The aim of getting plastic bottles out of the litter is set at 70% to 90% of the litter. Yesterday, during the AO Circular economy, this was discussed extensively. I get the impression from the preliminary reports that this is gonna be a big deal. The agreement is that deposit money will be introduced on small bottles if the industry does not make it. I would like to ask some questions about this to the Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to know whether it is correct that the industry has indicated that it is failing to meet the objectives set and that it is therefore calling for an early decision to be taken in time to take measures to enable deposit money to function. I am talking here about bringing forward the planned decision to be taken in the autumn of 2021. Is it not strange that the UNG has signed the framework agreement with industry, which will deal with litter through actions financed by industry, while many members of the same UNG now support a deposit money alliance? And what about the cans discussion? Can we simply burden the business community with a declaration of more than EUR 50 million in terms of investment, while the problem is mainly caused by miserable people? Have municipalities actually pursued active policies on the disposal of garbage cans and, above all, on maintaining them in the case of this asshole? Will the broad approach to litter under the heading of the Netherlands not be compromised, because the framework agreement is now to be completed differently unilaterally? I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Then the requirements of heaters. At the beginning of this year, the Secretary of State informed us that she wanted to bring forward the Ecodesign scheme, which was planned for 2022, to 2020. At that time I asked how business stocks would be, because industry noises teach me that it is still quite a job to dispose of the stocks in the market. Moreover, in Europe there is no complete and communicated list of all wood appliances which do comply with the new directive. Can that be clarified? If not, can the deadline be extended? Finally, innovations in the field of barn systems. Mr Helma Lodders and I have often asked written questions about this. Here too, there must be room for pilots. Possible solutions that can prevent air pollution remain on the shelf for too long. For these reasons, we will come forward with an own-initiative paper to speed up all this. I thought it appropriate to inform the Secretary of State. Our group not only identifies the problems, but also thinks about solutions to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u69	I want to come back to the heading of public transport. I have put a question to Mr Dijkstra. I should like to support that question with a few statements by Mr Dijkstra himself. He says people should have an alternative to the car. The government agreement states that public transport must be a good alternative throughout the Netherlands. I would also like to put this question to Mr Ziengs, but on regional transport. Regional transport is also an important subject in public transport. What has this cabinet done to improve regional transport, on which many people in the Netherlands depend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u70	Let me start with the initiatives supported by the provinces, where many other forms of transport are offered. The buses that used to run around with air from stop to stop have been exchanged for other forms of transport, which can even be picked up closer to home by means of an app or by bubbles etc. I think it's a wonderful example of how you can change the way you think about the rigid thinking that you always just have to work with stops and big buses. This government also has proposals in the pipeline, as the government agreement also states, for the regions. I just told you how fantastic that happened in the North of the Netherlands. We wouldn't have had a train there anymore, but fortunately: they are again, and very luxurious and good as well. And yes, I happen to know that your favorite is the Dutch Railways. I've got a lot of it, too. I travel a lot with it, but it's also fantastic how fine you are on the train with the regional carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr Ziengs indeed started with an ode on the track: it's all so good. He also arrives by train from, from my mind, Assen to The Hague. That's because the NS has been doing a very good job for years. The regional lines Mr Ziegs is talking about are lines that work so well because they do not touch the main rail network. They're not involved. On the contrary, Mr Ziegs wants to reduce the quality of the good main rail network by shredding and allowing more competition on the main rail network. But the question is about local transport. Of course MaaS, smaller buses and a little more flexibility are important for a number of people. But also think of people like Zwolle. The SP takes action with the nursing home Het Hoge Huis, because the elderly simply miss a bus, which means they are on their way two hours longer to get to the center of Zwolle. What does Mr Zieng say to those people, knowing that next year this cabinet will spend EUR 35 million less on the broad target benefit, which is intended for regional transport? What does Mr Ziengs say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u72	In any case, I would draw the attention of the drivers in that region to the very good experiments that are taking place in the field of the forms of transport that I have just appointed. Because there, too, apparently, is still the idea that you have to ride with traditional ways of fulfilling public transport, while there are so many other methods that you can bring much better and much more efficient for the customer himself. Those are the things I always draw attention to and not just the rigid methods we thought we would have to use together for 40, 50 years to get people from A to B.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr Ziengs felt that the CDA on his side needed to speed up the decentralisation of the lines, which we also included in the coalition agreement. But Mr Ziengs also made it clear what the situation is on the track, already and with the preview, the forecasts for the future, of the NMCA and the NS. He already indicated it himself: overcrowded trains and platforms that are full. There is even considerable investment to make the platforms longer, but what does Mr Zieng think of the NS's intention to invest more than 800 million in single-deck trains? Those trains will be operational for the next 20 to 30 years. These are the new intercity's. In addition, there will be 200 sprinters. What does Mr Ziengs think of this happening in relation to the picture of the future that the train is only getting fuller and the track is busier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u74	Let me put this in front of you. If a transport authority provides transport services, it can make the best possible decision to purchase equipment in order to meet the transport demand. So I am very cautious about how an organisation should invest. When an organization invests, I think it is good if it knows in advance that there is indeed a greater need. In this type of investment, we, as politicians, must always keep our wits about it: why is such an investment being made? Is it really being done in relation to these future developments or perhaps also in order to secure a certain position that may have been envisaged? I think that is the broad answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u75	I hear a lot of repetition from Mr Ziengs, also from yesterday, but I miss two very nice things that I think we can make a lot of money available. So I'd like to hear from the VVD about the total absurd 11.4 billion for that biomass. And what about that billion dollars for turning ProRail into a Zbo? That's 12.5 billion. That sounds like a good game for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u76	This is such a wonderful free treatise: how do we get money from somewhere? Following yesterday's debate, Mr Van Aalst knows that the government agreement with the partners made agreements on biomass. That debate is actually taking place in another debate. So I don't want to have that discussion here. With regard to the discussion on ProRail, we also have the swords with each other on a regular basis... What do you call that? We've got the swords together...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u77	Crossed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u78	Crossed. I was thinking, do you cross those things or is that called different? We crossed the swords then. Mr. Van Aalst knows that we have also made agreements about this, also about how we deal with it in the future. I just asked the Secretary of State about that. Those three important elements, which, of course, count for us throughout the decision-making process, must be put on the table at the same time. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u79	That is of course a nice diversion of the VVD. This cabinet has made agreements before. For example, I can refer to the word 'dividend tax'. The abolition of this was also suddenly off the table. So I suggest that the VVD sit down with its coalition partners between the first and the second term. We'll pick up the 12.5 billion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u80	That'd be a hell of a quick job, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u81	Still, about biomass. Biomass is not climate-neutral and is not sustainable. It has indeed been agreed in the coalition agreement, but that was based on the knowledge of that time. Very recently, a umbrella of European scientists sent a letter of fire to the European Union. In that they say that biomass, the cutting and burning of trees, is in no way sustainable. In fact, biomass is even more CO-unfriendly than coal-burning. That information wasn't there two and a half years ago. Does Mr Zieng agree with me on the basis of this information that the coalition agreement should perhaps be broken open on that point and that we can use this 11 billion grant in a better way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u82	I understand that Mr Wassenberg is now heading towards the opening up of the coalition agreement, in which such matters can also be discussed. I think that's chefsache, as it's called. I'm not going to make any statements about that. We've made arrangements for this period. "A deal is a deal" always counts very hard for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State and therefore we as a committee face very great challenges. The climate targets in the Urgendavonnis are not met. Unfortunately, air quality is not as good as it used to be. NO emissions from traffic contribute significantly to the nitrogen crisis. The problems we thought we had tackled in the past, such as soil and water pollution, seem to be more urgent than ever because of the thousands of new chemicals. The red line in all that is that we need an active government, a government that ensures good environmental legislation and also controls and maintains it. As far as we are concerned, the time of a retreating government that left climate, environment and health to voluntary agreements with corporate greed is really over. The urgency of the crisis is too great for that. So, Minister and Secretary of State, you, we're on. The budgetary investigation therefore leads to painful conclusions. The Minister and the Secretary of State cannot actually spend all the money. At the same time, the late maintenance of waterways, roads and railways remains a major problem. We are now halfway through the cabinet period and what are these directors going to achieve in concrete terms during this cabinet period? I see steps taken by the Secretary of State who have also fought hard in the coalition, such as deposit money on plastic bottles or extra attention to train and bike. But what does this minister achieve? It is scrupulously holding on to a government agreement that has been overtaken in its policy area by a statement by the Council of State and a rapidly changing social debate. When does this minister really dare to turn the button? Away from the 130, away from the growth of aviation and the asphalt mantra. Dare to opt for sustainable mobility. Today, I want to focus on three themes: sustainable mobility, dirty substances, they have already passed a while, and enforcement. I am starting with the sustainability of mobility, which is a real challenge. Both CO emissions, air pollution and nitrogen must be dealt with as a matter of urgency. The good news is that measures that are good for the climate are also good for our health and for nature. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are going to lower the speed limit throughout the Netherlands. This produces 1.5 megatons of CO for the climate and that is highly needed for the Urgenda statement. A generic reduction in speed also works against the blanket of nitrogen that is currently lying over our country. It is also in line with the ruling of the Health Council and counteracts health damage caused by air pollution. Finally, a lower speed limit would increase road safety and reduce noise pollution. SWOV announced on Monday that the number of accidents on the highway has doubled. Does the Minister intend to map all these benefits of a generic reduction in speed and share them with the Chamber as soon as possible so that we can discuss them further? Turning the 130 back is a first step as far as we are concerned. I will put forward an amendment to use the money that is still available for the further roll-out of 130 kilometres of roads for measures to combat noise pollution, for example. I would ask the Minister to allow municipalities that request further reductions in the speed limit, such as on the N3 at Dordrecht to 80 kilometres. Finally, for us around schools 30 km/h is really the norm so that children can go to school as much walking and cycling as possible safely. Then there is a lingering issue: the dirty diesel; nitrogen emissions that we should have dealt with much more ferociously. There's a new fucking diesel scandal coming up again and again. Mr Dijkstra stands up at the word'shumble diesel'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u85	I'll come back to the 130. You talked about generic for the whole of the Netherlands. What should it be all over the Netherlands? Is that 80, or 60, or 50, or 40, or 10, or still?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u86	If you look at the calculation of costs and benefits... That is why we very much want the benefits to be mapped out. As far as we are concerned, that is the first step. We would like to see the benefits of reducing speed to 100. In addition, it is possible to look at 80 for ring roads such as the N3 at Dordrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u87	That was the answer that was expected, I think. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u88	Okay. I hope that the VVD will give its full support to this proposal. Then the scoundrel diesel. Again, nitrogen emissions that we should have tackled much more fervently and which can also be tackled easily. Actually, there's a new fucking diesel scandal coming up again and again. In other countries these cars are dealt with. A mandatory software update can save 25% emissions. Together with D66 I propose to make that update mandatory within the app. We have already made this appeal and the Secretary of State went to investigate the possibilities. As far as we are concerned, it is now really time for action: a mandatory inspection for all cars in which fraud software has been detected. Because let's do the things that we can do quickly and easily in the nitrogen file, as soon as possible. The real challenge is of course that we are far too much in the car. More and more cars, more and more miles. Our cities are closing down. That is why, together with the Christian Union, we call for the car to be left one day a year nationwide. A day to celebrate the alternative to the car: hiking, cycling and public transport. An awareness that hopefully gets its resonance in the rest of the year. I very much hope that the Secretary of State is positive about this proposal for clean air, liveable cities and the climate. Let's embrace that carless Sunday nationwide. Hopefully, then, as many municipalities as possible will participate. Worldwide, 1,600 cities are already participating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u89	I thought I'd have GroenLinks make a huge compliment, because I really like this initiative. My question is actually: if this is very good now, can it be done on the other 51 Sundays?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u90	If the SGP wishes to submit a proposal... I'm very curious. It is quite clear that this is a proposal which opens up a great deal of debate. I think it's very good to start by just supporting and facilitating all the municipalities to really celebrate that one day. Then let's see what we can do. The fact that we are for more car-dead cities is self-evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u91	Of course, that was not entirely my question, but I understand that there is room to move to more. As far as I'm concerned, that tastes like more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u92	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u93	If we really want to get people out of the car and into it, then we have to take good care of everyone. I have previously called for attention to be paid to transport poverty: the fact that people cannot participate properly in society because there is no affordable transport. I hope that this Secretary of State is prepared to make a real map of the gap between the two. I am thinking here of both the physical supply and the effects of, for example, the price increase in bus transport, which we have seen before. The SP will make a proposal to this effect which we wholeheartedly endorse. Investment is needed for good. ProRail and NS are ringing the alarm about the fact that the track is overcrowded. The big cities are begging for investment in lightrail. The good news is there's a lot of money on the shelf. Billions are laid down in projects, asphalt projects, and they stay down. In that sense, I think the PAS pronunciation offers an opportunity. Take, for example, the widening of the A27. We're gonna have to go back to that trachea decision. I hope that not so much a legal ruse will be looked at, but really alternatives to this very expensive project.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u94	I was just thinking about the issue of transport poverty. I believe that this is a legitimate problem. We've got to make sure everyone gets on the road. Does GroenLinks agree with me that we have not yet properly identified which areas of the Netherlands are concerned and that we are perhaps taking measures here where this could be a side-effect? And I'm referring to the environmental zones. As a result, people who have a somewhat older car that they have to get rid of, actually don't have a good alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u95	If we outline the problem of transport poverty, then we are actually addressing the problem of public service. As far as we are concerned, public transport is a public service in which the government ensures that people can get affordable and reliable from A to B. I think that's what the government should stand for. You can see that because of the discrepancy between transport poverty and transport poverty, which takes place for different reasons and in different ways, people do not actually have what they could use. I had stayed with the A27 and the fact that this offers an opportunity to really look at that tracé decision. The reduction in the maximum speed will also allow additional lanes within the bin and there will be no less than 700 million for investment in RV and, for example, fast bicycle paths. That is an incredible opportunity for sustainable transport. My question to the Minister and the Secretary of State I realise that we still have a MIRT debate and that the PAS debate is also going to be held.... is whether they are prepared to check all projects within the MIRT that have not yet been tendered and which the PAS has yet to look at again, also with regard to nature and climate impact, so that we really have the alternatives for sustainable mobility in mind and we can really make that assessment. I hope the rulers will agree to that. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that a distinction should be made in the PAS dossier on mobility between projects that temporarily release nitrogen and those that cause structural nitrogen emissions? Does the Minister intend to include this distinction in the mapping of the impact of the PAS ruling on the MIRT projects, which has already been promised, i.e. the distinction between temporary construction emissions and structural emissions, together with a nitrogen budget which clarifies the scale of the problem? One sector which always seems to have an exceptional position is aviation. No excise duty on kerosene, no VAT on tickets, no hard climate targets. And even now, in the nitrogen drama, aviation seems to be getting off the ground again, because only the emissions up to 900 metres are taken away. Almost all Dutch airports have been released without a licence for years. That's unbelievable, isn't it? When was the Cabinet aware of the fact that our airports operate without a permit? LNV is now looking at the enforcement request, but the Minister of IenW must have had an insight into whether airports have all the necessary permits? Why was this not discussed with the Chamber on important decisions after 2004? How did the construction of a new pier to facilitate prize fighters take place? Was that even legal? When the minister, in the context of the PAS, made the contested ruling on a ruse, we did not have to take her so literally, she answered our parliamentary questions about this. She is looking for a solution, but my question is: for what problem is that a solution? To protect our fragile nature or the obstacles to the growth of aviation arising from the ruling of the Council of State? I'd like a response. In the meantime, the Minister continues to push ahead with her plans for Lelystad Airport. The municipalities in Overijssel and Gelderland were embarrassed by the fact that, in the middle of a complex decision-making process, the low flight routes were suddenly established. The Minister has set up a group of air traffic controllers to implement the routes while the entire airport is not yet open. In fact, Norwegian air traffic controllers are being flown in while at Lelystad Airport air traffic control is running thumbs, so that the minister can keep the appearance that the airport really opens quickly. How much does this cost and on what budget does this push? When does the Minister conclude that Lelystad Airport is a fossil plan, outdated by the bitter need to protect our climate, nature and tranquility? Or does the Minister of one ruse want to roll into another coincidence? Can the Minister at least promise here and now, so actually tomorrow, that no decisions will be taken on Lelystad Airport until the Remkes Committee has also given its opinion on aviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u96	Well, the latter seems very unwise to me. But GroenLinks is so against flying and everything, but they are on the city council of Amsterdam. I think you guys are the biggest in there. I see your party leader really flying around the world, America and recently China. He also flew to Barcelona the other day. You'll still take the train to Venice nicely, but it's going to fly. How am I supposed to explain that? There's quite a bit of hypocrisy in GroenLinks' position. In fact, I never want to see a GroenLinkser, a member of the Green Left at least, on a plane when you are so against flying. Then why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u97	It is always disappointing that, when you have had a colleague to you for two and a half years, we have repeatedly said to you that we are not against aviation. I'm just surprised. I'm going to explain it to Mr Dijkstra again before he jumps up. Once again, we are opposed to the growth of aviation. We believe that aviation has reached the border, the limit of climate, neighbors, nature and safety; the latter also shares with us. We think that we really need to look at another system of aviation, in which the railways are also going to play a much and much more important role. I am very pleased that Mr Amhaouch's and myself's proposal has just been adopted by the Chamber. So that's another look at aviation. I think Mr Dijkstra is failing the debate by flattening it and pretending that you are for or against flying. That is absolutely not the issue. That is a simplification which unfortunately is a little short of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u98	Okay, let's just ask if you're for or against flying. But how can it be that as a Member of Parliament... You have a certain ambition, a certain vision of how this aviation should develop, or not, because you think it needs to shrink. How can it be that as a GroenLinks chamber member you simply do not set an example, if you experience it so intrinsically? I don't understand. Two. Why do you tell about half the Netherlands that they can't fly? Because you want to make it so expensive and so unattractive that someone has to be very rich in a moment and only GroenLinks votes to fly. Think of those people who save hard and work hard, who just want to go on holiday: two weeks to Turkey or two weeks to southern Spain. And then you say that all of that can't happen anymore, because we in GroenLinks can go all over the world before we start saving him, but those people who have worked hard for it don't have to do that anymore, because we know what's good for them. How hypocritical is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr Dijkstra mixes all kinds of things. That's... Well, that's everything. I can put all kinds of words on it. Let me just stick to the facts. We are very clear: take the train where possible and where possible. That is why we are really in favour of strengthening rail traffic at short distances within Europe. Once again, we believe that the growth of aviation is absolutely not necessary or is on the agenda. If there are still 60 flights a day to London, then there is really enough room within Schiphol to continue with the current capacity. Growth is therefore totally out of the question. It is a fact that at the moment, to my knowledge, 8% of people fly 40% of flights. So the picture presented by Mr Dijkstra is also not in line with reality. However, Mr Dijkstra was also crystal clear about the commitment of the VVD. I really hope that the Minister will be in a different position here, because Mr Dijkstra just said and passionately that, as far as he is concerned, a decision is simply being taken on Lelystad Airport, while we are still waiting for the advice of the Remkes Committee. The Remkes Committee was asked by this cabinet for advice, including on aviation. He's gonna come up with some advice. In fact, Mr Dijkstra of the VVD says: no, in the meantime we are just leaving the nitrogen emissions from aviation untouched; that can grow nicely. I really think that's hypocritical. However, as has already been said, I am pleased that yesterday the Chamber voted in favour of my motion to seriously include Railport Schiphol as a hub for international train traffic in the Aviation Note. As far as we are concerned, there are real opportunities for Schiphol underground as a train hub. I would like to hear from the Minister and the Secretary of State what steps are going to be taken to give the train as a replacement for the aircraft wings. And can the Secretary of State outline what investments are actually included in the long term, if you really want to facilitate international train traffic, for example at Amsterdam Zuid station? Because if I read in this morning's newspaper in a leaked piece of paper that the Minister does want flights up to 800 kilometres to cross the track as much as possible, but that no additional investment is considered necessary, I do not understand and that does not sound like a real plan to me. I hope the Minister also realises that the space released cannot be used one-on-one for intercontinental flights. The CO emissions from aviation have to go down. That is why we also need a CO ceiling on which we can steer, as I asked the Minister earlier. The good news about "more trains, less flying" was the announcement that the night train will start driving again from the Netherlands next year. My compliments to the Secretary of State, who has made a very clear commitment to this. I would like to hear which destinations are even more likely, so that there is also another night train to the south. Then PFAS. That's what all the necessary changes have just been made. It's a group of thousands of them. I believe more than 7,000 of them are toxic, non-degradable substances that are found all over the soil. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State is pursuing a firm policy on this issue. However, I agree with the construction sector that it is of course very worrying that we do not yet have a sound source approach. The Secretary of State is going to investigate all the sources of exposure, but of course we know all the necessary. We need a national action plan to combat further PFAS pollution. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? And does she also want to seek advice from other countries? How is this PFAS pollution handled in the United States, Denmark and France? Can we learn from that? Can we do this more broadly, so we can really get a solid source approach? An old pollutant that I had hoped to deal with today is asbestos. The asbestos roofs are up and crumble, making them more dangerous every year. But the clean-up is set, which leads to risks and costs. This week there was a proposal for a fund to get things moving. That has not yet been included in the budget. Could the Secretary of State perhaps explain this further? Finally, Mr President, a subject which unfortunately, unfortunately, comes back every year. That is the lack of enforcement. As has often been said, our environmental policy is as good as it is maintained. And I'm afraid that's not good enough. In all areas, tasks for the ILT, from the fourth rail package to the mess of chemicals, from the import of contaminated soil to the inspection of sea-going vessels. Yesterday in the debate, the Secretary of State said: I also want to use the ILT to really look at those packagings. I welcome that, but we need an ILT that can handle it. Because the more complex our economy becomes, the more supervision and enforcement we need, especially in the transition to a circular economy where waste flows become secondary raw materials. That can only go well if there is sufficient control of it. In the spring note, the cabinet added money to the ILT. My question is whether that's enough. That question lingers. We have repeatedly expressed concerns together with other groups. The minister's been talking to the ILT. The ILT itself says to have the task in order. Only, who supervises the supervisor, is the question. We have been given a policy review as a Chamber, but it was very difficult to draw conclusions on the effectiveness of the ILT. That's what worries me. We would very much like to see an independent party, a third party, which could be the Court of Auditors, but that could also be another party, really doing a thorough review, a good investigation, into the tasks and resources of the ILT. Is the Minister prepared to do this? The need for a strong and well-equipped ILT also emerges in the whole situation around the Stint. We are going to have a separate debate on this very soon, but I would like to say something about it. The OVV's conclusions are harsh and worrying. A great deal has gone wrong in the area of regulation, review and enforcement. After all, the Ministry has failed to ensure road safety, and that is one of its primary tasks. Anyway, hopefully we'll have that debate soon after the autumn recess. Mr. Chairman. Finally. There are great challenges I have outlined, but there are also really great opportunities for this minister and this Secretary of State to use and translate that changing social context, with Urgenda and the PAS statement, for example, into a truly sustainable policy. I really hope we'll see that again in the coming year. What I am concerned about is that these rulers are ignoring that changing reality, that they are not paying enough attention and just sticking to the coalition agreement, while there is a lot going on, as we can see today in The Hague. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u100	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs De Pater of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr President, thank you. Today, on behalf of the CDA, I will raise the following points: road safety, CBR, inland waterway transport, PFAS and asbestos. Then my colleague Mustafa Amhaouch will continue on rail and aviation. Imagine, you're in the Efteling and you're standing in line with your family for the Dream Flight, just like all those people in front of you and all those people behind you. You've been standing up for a while, but luckily you're almost next. Suddenly someone stumbles by on the right side, overtakes that line and jumps into a cart from the Dream Flight. That's a little naughty, that's antisocial, that's annoying, but is it bad? Mwah. Imagine being stuck in traffic on the highway. In front of you and behind you, people are waiting neatly for them to move through again. On the right lane next to you you see a red cross on a matrix board. And all of a sudden, someone on the right stumbles by and overtakes that line. But at the end is not a nice roller coaster ride or a fun Dream flight. At the end a road worker can stand who wants to go back to his family in the evening. At the end a car can be unlucky where the mother is still trying to get her children out of the car seats and put them neatly behind the guardrail so that they are safe. Ignoring a red cross is a bit antisocial. And is it bad? Yeah, this is bad, this is really bad. Because you're often alone in that car, but you're not alone on the road. We seem to be forgetting that more and more. Traffic is a game of interplay. You have to consider each other, and if people are a little naughty a few times without any consequences, that's gonna be a habit. And if more people in society have a habit, it becomes a norm. Ignoring a red cross must never be the norm. So we have to break that habit. According to the CDA, by increasing the chances of getting caught and giving a fine to anyone who shows that behavior. That doesn't have to be so hard. Rijkswaterstaat already has cameras hanging above the highway that can see which car runs through the red cross. In fact, I think this is a 100% coverage network. With that footage, the police alone can't issue fines, and that's crazy. The CDA is therefore proposing today to modify this. How's the minister looking at this? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that the use of Rijkswaterstaat's cameras to maintain the ignorance of a red cross is an effective and efficient solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u102	Of course, as Mrs De Pater puts it, when someone is driving through a red cross and causing a serious accident, that is not a dream flight but a real nightmare. However, I am a little concerned about the privacy of many road users if the CDA is simply calling for access to all the cameras under the control of Rijkswaterstaat to be given one by one to the police. I wonder if the CDA has a warm heart for the privacy of road users. Because this sounds almost like 1984, like the doom of George Orwell. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u103	That's a very good question. What is particularly important with these cameras that we hang up all over the Netherlands, is that they often have a target decision. So in advance, we all determine what the data of that camera can be used for. That discussion is important to have with each other in relation to privacy. We also saw today that this goes wrong in Amsterdam, for which my colleague Chris van Dam has rightly requested a debate, precisely to talk about this principle. If we go back to traffic control and that red cross, I think we should ask each other if this is important enough. Are those seriously injured and even those deaths that fall in traffic among people who therefore ignore that red cross in order to adapt that target decision? Then my CDA group says: yes, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u104	Then I could say from D66: I agree with you on the condition that there are good criminal safeguards. I didn't hear you say that. I'm sorry about the CDA anyway, because that's what I was expecting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u105	What we can do here, or at least what I am going to ask the Minister to do, is sit down with her colleague in the Justice Department and look at the target decision of those cameras. And also to say that those who carry out a ticket are indeed the people who have the opportunity to do so, i.e. boas of a certain category, who may also issue fines for ignoring a red cross. So we all put this neatly within the possibilities that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. Appende behind the wheel also seems to be the new standard. But also this behavior is not normal, because it has dangerous consequences and often just for the other one, the one you pop on top of because you haven't seen the file or the one you pop on top of because you missed the red cross. The CDA understands that there has been a successful trial with two special flash cameras that can detect holding a phone and then write a fine. The CDA likes to see a large rollout all over the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to consider the possibilities of improving this situation? The CDA is getting signals that the police have other priorities than standing and enforcement in traffic. Can the Minister talk to her colleague from the Justice Department to get police traffic enforcement back on the priority list on antisocial behavior? Mr. Chairman. Road safety is also clear. With the PAS, the Minister indicated that speeds would be reduced on a number of roads next to Natura 2000 sites. But I bet 99% of all Dutch people have no idea where those areas are. The CDA fears that some people still drive the old speed out of habit, for example 120, and the others the new, 100. That's not good for road safety. A too big difference in speeds on a road increases the insecurity: suddenly slowing down, because you suddenly realize that you can now get 100 instead of 120 and a traffic penalty, because you did not get the new reduction. Also do not see the sign, because there is not so much, should be avoided as much as possible. It is very important to be clear here. The CDA therefore wants the matrix boards on the highways to be used by default to indicate the correct applicable speed, so that there is no confusion. How's the minister looking at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u108	I am very pleased that my colleague from the CDA actually identifies the road safety elements of different speed limits. Wouldn't it be much better simply to introduce a generic maximum speed reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u109	By these differences in speed, I mean differences in speed on the same highway, because that is precisely when you see that road safety is at stake. Just when one 120 is driving and the other 100 and another maybe another, even though that's not allowed at all, 130, you see most accidents. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join the CBR. As indicated in my maiden speech, driving licences are so much more than a plastic pink pass. It's your freedom and many people need it to be able to visit family and friends or because they're carers and they have to take their wife or husband to the doctor. My mailbox continues to flood with emails from Dutch people who cannot renew their driver's license in time. According to the report we recently received, there are now 20,303 Dutch people who do not get their driving licences in time. If we stopped them all in a traffic jam in a row, we would have a traffic jam that reaches from The Hague to Amsterdam. The CDA is pleased that a general director has now been appointed. The letter on the CBR states that the number of expired driving licences is expected to return to a normal level by March 2020. That sounds hopeful, but what does the Minister mean by "a normal level"? Does that mean that the imaginary file from The Hague to Amsterdam has been solved and everyone can drive again, because they got their license on time? 22% of 75-plussers provide care. Last week, I went to work at the CBR. They told me that caregivers who need the car and report to customer service are treated with priority. That's good. Only not all carers know this when they really do need their driver's license. What can the Minister do to bring this to the attention of the carers? Mr. Chairman. We're all in pain waiting for the coulance regulation. What about its implementation? When can the law enter into force and how is the famous software testing going? For example, can a check mark already be set in the correct system? Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the proposals for additional compensation for those affected, which we asked for in the CBR consultation. In her letter she mentions three possible proposals. If we look at the options, the second option seems to be the best option, but we would like a little more explanation of this option and of the other two. For example, under option two, can the Minister indicate what exactly can be extended, in terms of compensation, both in terms of the amount of compensation and what costs would be covered? The CDA believes it is very important that the feasibility of the project is also looked at very carefully, so that the CBR is not subject to any additional burden, because the priority of the CBR is, of course, currently when issuing driving licences in good time. Mr President, I am going to inland waterway transport. Inland navigation is a way of life. It's a lot more than a job. Your ship is your job, but it's also your home. We want to make that modal shift as a government, but if we look closely, we can see that it's going the wrong way. The sector itself indicates that many people are leaving inland waterway transport or thinking about stopping. The CDA wants to see the inland waterway sector more as a family rather than as a modality. You're not from nine to five. Because your ship is also your home. The CDA therefore wants more attention to be paid to good berths, because they are too few. We want to see where you can stay for more than 3 but 24 hours, because at the moment only five places in the Netherlands can do that. Inland waterway vessels must also provide care on shore, and children must go to school and on family visits. And it seems very small, but it's a hassle if you can't get rid of your garbage or if you have to use a generator because there's no shore power. In short, good berths should be in order. Can the Minister, in consultation with the sector, see how we can create more good berths?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u110	Before you go any further. I gotta be honest with you. I will allow Mr Laçin to interrupt, but that is your seventh. This is not an invitation to anyone to sprint to the interrupt microphone now, but it is so fair to tell the other spokesmen as well. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u111	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that the CDA is talking about inland navigation and inland waterway vessels, because they are having a hard time. That's not just the sector itself. The CCNR, the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine, also concludes that the inland waterway fleet is getting smaller. On 1 January 2020 there will be noise requirements for inland waterway transport. That is why, as far as we are concerned, this Minister must act very quickly so that we do not get an even faster reorganisation of inland waterway transport after 1 January. Do we think that the CDA is on our side if we want to persuade the Minister to come forward quickly with measures to preserve the inland waterway fleet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u112	Mr Laçin has a very good point to make here. That fleet must remain diverse. This means that we must also keep those small ships in it and the noise standards imposed by the CCNR are sometimes extremely difficult to achieve, if only because that conversion simply cannot be done properly on that ship, when we work that those skippers really do. There is therefore no malice, but these rules seem to be very difficult to implement. So I absolutely want to see with Mr Laçin what we can do about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u114	We're still in inland waterway transport. I'd like to take a moment to degass the fern. The budget says that degassing will be banned by 2020, but how will the Minister do that? The CDA wants to lay down responsibility for the customer and not for the skipper. So is the Minister going to oblige the buyer to take the gas? And what about the advice on handling substances in degassing plants and licensing? When's that advice coming? They are also engaged in sustainability and greening in inland waterway transport. They themselves recommended that they see a fuel, the GTL, which they say is an intermediate fuel, with which we can start a greening step. Can the Minister look into this and see if it can become mandatory? The smaller ships I wanted to bring in now, but we just did. I have another question, because I was just talking to Mr Laçin about the CCNR. I would like to put the question to the Minister as to whether she can see, alongside the CCNR, how this fleet can remain diverse, so how exactly those small ships can be saved for our fleet. Then the PFAS. In addition to the PAS we also have to worry about the PFAS. We want to build more houses and there's money for that, but if you can't lay the foundation because the ground can't be removed or moved, you can't build a house. A problem that builders now have to deal with on a daily basis. In the world of dredging, the problem is that an unsubstantiated 1 microgram standard has been imposed. There is still a workable temporary solution, but now part of the sector is in danger of falling under. The CDA wants to stress that the need is high here too. We want the Secretary of State to act quickly. How can it reach a workable solution in the short term? I'll close with asbestos. It is still unclear whether it will succeed in spending the 5 million that became available once in 2019 in the Spring Note. We would like to know whether it will be possible to use these funds and what will be done with them if they cannot be used. How does the Secretary of State view this? Mr President, I will conclude with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you. I call Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr. Chairman. Planes that produce only water vapour, magnetic hover trains, flying taxis and electric planes: there is a good chance that they will occur not only in science fiction movies, but also in the Netherlands in the not too long term. These innovations are urgently needed, as the CDA sees a growing tension in society between the increase in the use of different types of transport and the increase in different forms of nuisance that arise. Sustainable innovations seem to be the answer to these increasing tensions in a small stamp country like the Netherlands. What innovations have priority in the cabinet? Is there a mobility innovation agenda? How does the Cabinet intend to encourage these innovations to be accelerated? Last year, the CDA called for research into the opportunities and opportunities for private financing of infrastructure projects, and to do so in consultation with the provinces. How's this going? Does the Minister recognise that, if we want to make a scale leap, we need to look more broadly and that this cannot only come from the regular budget? Mr. Chairman. The CDA is for competitive and sustainable aviation. As far as CDA is concerned, sustainability of aviation should be seen as a priority for Europe as a whole. It will benefit the whole of Europe if we join forces. Is the Minister prepared to work in Europe to accelerate innovations in the field of sustainable aviation and fuels? How is it seen at European level that biokerosin is currently about two to three times more expensive than ordinary kerosene? The CDA specifically has been advocating the rapid and adequate availability of biokerosin at Schiphol Airport and possibly other airports. How's this going?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u117	I was triggered by what Mr Amhaouch says about innovations that seem to be far away now, but which may be coming closer. I remember, by the way, that there was once a concrete project for a magnetic float course. Mr Amhaouch looks very far. But what does he think of the connection of the Netherlands to the international high-speed network? Is it not true that Amsterdam is actually the Roodeschool of Europe, a kind of head station on an HSL network, with only one railway line in the south direction? Wouldn't the Netherlands be much better off connecting to a hsl network to the southeast, east and northeast?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u118	I will come back to you later, but very briefly: yes, we are in favour of that. We find two things. One: we have the current network, the old track, which is 150 years old and is also covered by HSL lines. But if, for example, the line from Amsterdam to Brussels arrives at the border with Belgium, the train in Belgium suddenly becomes a stop train, and then you have to stop everywhere. We would like you to be able to go much more smoothly to southern Europe. But two: we are also in favour of an investigation into a whole new network, an innovative solution apart from the current track, with which we can make another scale leap. But I'll come back to that later. Thank you for being triggered by this, Mr. Moorlag. It's always nice to have people listen carefully when someone's talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u120	I need to see where I was. The CDA specifically has been advocating the availability of biokerosin. That's where I left off. How's that going? The CDA is also in favour of an ambitious roll-out of electric taxiing at airports through agreements. Is the Minister prepared to encourage aircraft with a built-in system for electric taxiing, or can we do a pilot with that? Maybe there's an airline out there that wants to pull the cart. The CDA also likes to hear the latest state of play of discussions with potential private partners and NGOs to make synthetic kerosene competitive. Mr. Chairman. In a small country like the Netherlands, the CDA considers it important that the Dutch airports cooperate with each other in order to strengthen each other and create social value, rather than compete unnecessarily at the same level. The CDA therefore calls for a more comprehensive and comprehensive direction between the Dutch airports of national interest. Does the Minister see opportunities to encourage more airports to cooperate more? How would the Minister view it if, for example, more airports, such as Eelde and Maastricht, decided to be part of the Royal Schiphol Group, in order to increase this direction and harness each other's forces? Mr. Chairman. The CDA thinks it wise that the cabinet should work to make the train a great alternative to flying for short distances. Yesterday, a GroenLinks/CDA motion was adopted by the Chamber on the possibilities of a railport Schiphol, as Mrs Kröger mentioned earlier. To make the product train truly an attractive alternative in the long term, it is important to look at innovative possibilities. Take, for example, the modern hover train with malev technology, the magnetic levitation. This can be separated from current national and regional transport via corridors to national and international hubs in Germany, where we can travel through to North-East Europe, and to Belgium to reach Southern Europe. For example, there are more innovative possibilities that the train can really make a good alternative to flying. The CDA therefore proposes that a quick scan be prepared to identify the innovative possibilities and potential long-term societal costs and benefits that could make a new form of a high-speed international train very attractive. It is now time to think about a scale leap for the future. How does the Secretary of State view this? The CDA would also like to see a better connection between Amsterdam and Brussels. When you cross the border, the hsl turns into a train. A lot of money has been put into this, but cross-border coordination, in order to make it a success together with our Belgian neighbours, leaves much to be desired. The frequent and timely driving of this train is disappointing. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. A great annoyance for many people is a good and fast internet on the train. This is one of the biggest annoyances of train users who want to work, apt and study. Travel time is working time. The CDA likes to work towards a situation where in all intercity's excellent internet connection is possible via Wi-Fi or own bundles, the 4G. At the moment, however, we are getting signals that the Wi-Fi is too slow and that 4G is often unrecognizable. It is even often not possible to call if you drive through a tunnel or past a meadow. Does the Secretary of State have any insight into the rail cover? Is the Secretary of State prepared to talk to telecom providers about more better-placed masts near the railroad? In order to take a step in the right direction, the CDA comes together with the Christian Union with an amendment to present by 1 million by 2020 innovative solutions to improve speed, quality and reliability of the internet connection on the train, obviously in good consultation with the parties involved. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then the capacity on the current track. The main challenge for the short and medium term is to maximise the use of current rail capacity. The CDA would like to see investment in double-deck equipment become the standard and that this can only be justified. Either we have an urgent capacity shortage over the next ten years, and we're gonna put up with this, or it's not going to go so fast and we're gonna order 800 million worth of new single-deck equipment that we're stuck with for the next 20 to 30 years. It seems difficult to create a change in the mindset at this point. All we hear is "yes, but." How did the Secretary of State say this happened? Is it prepared to come up with a capacity plan 2025, which will provide insight into validated measures, impacts and costs and show how we can improve capacity on the current track? We need to stop cutting and sticking. Mr. Chairman. Then the hustle and bustle in rush hour. In addition to the embraced action plan, the CDA would like to move forward with changes in the teaching time of training institutions. How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that, in addition to students, more travellers travel outside rush hour? What possibility does it see in terms of price, by creating an attractive offer and facilitating a more flexible transfer from car to train, for example if you are in traffic? Let students think about this and reward the best idea. Make it a rail challenge. In addition, how does the Secretary of State envisage combined passenger and freight trains for the supply of inner cities? Could this be an opportunity to avoid empty seats in rush hour and increase the business model of the current track? Then I come to the last block and that's about the community stations. Not all stations in the Netherlands look equally great. Residents of some municipalities felt that this could be different and that, through cooperatives, the station and the surrounding area were beautifying, including through crowdfunding actions. That's how community stations came into being. They're adopted by the neighborhood. A great success was the Co-operative Stationspark Deurne, nominated for the Community Rail Awards because of the social involvement of the project. The station of Krabbendijke was also set up as an art studio and the Landgraaf station was completely occupied during Pinkpop. These are beautiful initiatives that increase the quality of life in the neighbourhood and village. The CDA likes to see this facilitated, so that residents who want it can easily get off the ground. Right now, we're getting signals that ProRail and contractors are throwing the ass against the crib. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you. I call Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the infrastructure and water state budget. Before I dive into the content, I would like to look back at the General Political Reviews. Many parties spoke words that made my socialist heart beat a little faster. The VVD talked about reciprocity of business, the CDA distanced from the term "dwelling market" and talked about housing and D66 talked about a millionaire stake on assets. The SP motion for an increase of at least 5% in business was widely supported by the Chamber. That is not surprising, because many people have been wondering for years who the government is actually there for: for big business and multinationals or for everyone in our country. As the rich grew richer, wages remained behind, pensions were not indexed, more and more young people are in huge debt and flex contracts and more and more families are living in poverty. It's high time we reversed that trend. If we ask who the government is going to go to the Ministry of IenW for then, we will get to the aviation and business around Lelystad Airport very quickly. The fact that so many people are now opposed to the further growth of aviation and the expansion of Lelystad Airport is not surprising. All sectors are rightly forced to drastically reduce their emissions, but this cabinet, through this minister, indicates that aviation growth is an end in itself. Despite all the objections, unbeatable social cost-benefit analyses, incomplete environmental impact assessments, low-flying routes over nature areas and a traffic distribution rule that is contrary to the wishes of this Chamber, this minister is pushing the absurd expansion of Lelystad Airport through the throats of hundreds of thousands of people, if necessary. The Minister also confirmed yesterday that Schiphol and other airports do not have a natural permit. Airports with a huge increase in flight movements simply do not have a valid nature permit. Explain that to the whole of the Netherlands, to anyone who has to apply for a permit for a rooftop or for parking in front of his house. This is all possible because Corendon holidays and more flight movements seem to be more important than human rights, transparency and reliability. Does the Minister realise that this is contrary to all agreements and global efforts against climate change, for example? In fact, large polluters should contribute more and not continue to dance. Do the rulers agree with that? Mr. Chairman. We see roads closing down, the railways becoming increasingly crowded and inland waterway transport is becoming increasingly difficult. There is an inverse modal shift that makes freight transport more and more on the road rather than on our beautiful waterways. At the beginning of 2020, inland waterway vessels are faced with nonsense noise requirements from the CCNR and the zoning that is already underway is going to take place faster. The skippers won't accept that, and neither will the SP. I would therefore ask the Minister to come up with a workable hardness clause before the end of the year, which gives certainty to the skippers, because the current hardness clause does not. The skippers have offered opportunities for this. The simple question is: is the Minister going to work on this? Is she gonna take care of that, yes or no? If not, the Chamber will have to give a ruling on this and force this minister to do so, because there is no other choice. Then the trail, Mr. Chairman. We're doing very well, and we have to keep it that way. Last week, ESB published a comprehensive report that looks at the future of the rail system. The conclusion is that increased competition and fragmentation on the railways lead to complications in the network and are therefore not desirable. We are still discussing the market organization, but can the Secretary of State give an initial response to the conclusions of this investigation? Then specifically the Lelyline, Chairman. It hasn't been mentioned yet. We are very much in favour of this line or at least of starting a serious feasibility study which also looks at the opportunities for housing and employment created by this line. The region is also pressing for this. The promised bus line is also not seen by the region as a serious alternative to a new railway line because, as Mr Amhaouch knows very well, a bus is not a train. Can the Secretary of State and the Lelylin Group look into a serious investigation and discuss this with her colleagues in the Interior and Social Affairs? Because where improvements from a railroad connection to Zandvoort for the Formula 1 party of pawns Prince Bernhard have been made, the Lelyline has so far been moved away. Let this cabinet prove that it is not there for a handful of people, but also wants to work for the North Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Following the introduction of the Passenger Transport Act 2000, market forces have entered public transport. Provinces were given the power to use regional transport. And what do we see after almost 20 years of market forces? More and more bus lines and bus stops disappearing, transport poverty affecting more and more people, with major consequences for study, care and labour, and above that the highest price increase in Europe due to the VAT increase of this cabinet. Good public transport is a basic need and a public service, which we should never have sold out to foreign state companies. Here too, market forces have not proved to be the solution. For example, the bus drivers I spoke to last year during the mass strikes know that. In order to take stock of the situation, we need to make the impact of market forces on the accessibility of the Netherlands clear. There is no such overview. I will therefore table a motion in my second term together with GroenLinks to map this. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we should have this overview in order to be able to discuss further improvements to our system, as this cabinet has also written in the coalition agreement? Then there is our environment and the emissions from industry, Mr President. People are rightly concerned about their health and their environment. We regularly talk about chemical emissions from multinationals such as Tata Steel, Chemours and Chemelot. After a long press by my party and the Secretary of State in the European context, for example, the substance GenX has been identified as a very worrying substance, which can lead to its emissions being phased out. On the other hand, it appears that Tata Steel does not have the appropriate permits to emit as many substances as they do now. That revealed EenVandaag last Monday. And Chemelot wants to continue to discharge 650 chemicals onto the Meuse over the next few years, while the accumulation effect of these substances has hardly been investigated. We also know by now that PFAS substances are found in our soil just about everywhere in the country. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State checks the PFAS substances in the soil according to strict rules. We do not want these substances in our environment or in our bodies. But what does she think of the developments at Tata Steel and at Chemelot? Does she share our concerns? Then the asbestos roofs, Mr. President. After ricocheting the ban on asbestos roofs, the Secretary of State went looking for alternatives. This now appears to be a loan fund on a voluntary basis. Despite all the good intentions of this Secretary of State, she knows, as I do, that this will not be enough. The opinion of the Health Council states that we must get rid of 80,000,000 m of asbestos roofs, which are becoming increasingly resistant. The SP has been hard on this for years, but this proposal is not going to succeed. The fact that so much asbestos has been used in the last century is also the responsibility of the government. Because the dangers were known, but it took until 1993 before a ban came into effect. That is why a substantial amount of money must be made available to people, both as compensation and as a subsidy. Will the Secretary of State look into a further development of the fund? If not, we will have to make proposals to settle this. Because putting people deeper into debt isn't gonna work. Finally. Importing contaminated land from abroad to avoid peeing in the Netherlands. We had a debate on this last year at the request of the SP and the rules were tightened at the end of last year. But ZEMBLA made it painfully clear two weeks ago that rules and paper enforcement aren't worth much. Take the strengthened rules for the PFAS substances in the soil and natural scientists who have serious doubts about the added value of the pollution of nature development, there is now only one conclusion to be drawn as regards the SP: we must stop peeing and no longer import contaminated land from abroad. Is the Secretary of State prepared to carry out this request? In order to be able to deal with this in enforcement, we as a party have tabled an amendment to give the ILT an additional EUR 5 million in structural terms so that capacity and enforcement problems can be dealt with more appropriately. Mr. Chairman. The SP is committed to a society that can assume that the government is there for it. A government that makes laws and regulations to limit the greed of big business and multinationals. A government that abandons the sacred faith in the market and itself ensures good and sustainable transport and protection of people, nature, environment, climate and our animals. I will also make proposals for this in my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you. I call Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was convenient, because my watch indicated it was time to get up. Mr. Chairman. Almost 50 years ago, in 1972, the Club of Rome published the groundbreaking report Boundaries on growth. After years of reconstruction and increasing prosperity in the 1950s and 1960s, this report identified the downside. For the first time, we were reminded that the enormous growth of our prosperity is accompanied by the depletion of our natural resources and the destruction of biodiversity. With a nitrogen crisis, the discussion about the PFAS and a climate crisis, that message is still topical. The publication of that report was the starting point of the environmental movement and thinking about a sustainable future. At D66 the report was an inspiration for Jan Terlouw, for example. In him, a strong advocate was found for the message from Borders to growth, but he also pointed out the opportunities that a sustainable future can offer us. Today, D66's contribution is focused on how we deal with these borders and what opportunities that offers us. I'll kick off today with everything that drives and sails. Then Mr Paternotte will talk about aviation and the environment. I'll start with the infrastructure component. Infrastructure is an important part of the budget of this Ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State. Because it is accompanied by a VVD minister, it is striking that we can actually speak better of a ministry of "infrastructure and what it says." For 75% of the budget in the Infrastructure Fund is intended to manage and maintain everything that is already there. In fact, EUR 1.5 billion from the Infrastructure Fund was not even spent this year. The money's in the bank and we're already struggling with overdue maintenance. The scope to invest in new infrastructure is limited. So it is good to hear that the government is thinking of an investment fund for new sustainable infrastructure. My first question to the executives is therefore: will the cabinet, when it comes to drawing up this fund, focus on the construction of genuinely new infrastructure? Think of the Lelyline; Mr Laçin just mentioned it. Think of the continuation of the North/South line in Amsterdam. Think of the creation of an opaque light rail network in the Randstad. When can we expect concrete results from this fund in terms of infrastructure? Mr. Chairman. Then car mobility. The number of traffic jams has only increased in recent years, both inside and outside the rush hour. Also on the road we run against borders, namely the limit of what you can improve with extra asphalt at the flow. That's pretty low. We must move towards a radical change in our mobility system. Instead of taxing the possession of a car that allows you to drive from a to b, we have to tax its use. When you use the car less, you pay less. If you drive more, you pay more. This is not only fairer; it also makes people more aware of their car use and is therefore a better way of preventing traffic jams. Contrary to Mr Dijkstra, we see this as the solution to the problem of his traffic sample. For years it was a taboo to talk about this. We have finally broken through this taboo in the Climate Agreement. In any case, the next cabinet is going to work on a form of charging. The introduction of this will not go unpunished. However, we must have the right figures for the public debate on this issue. That is the reason for D66 to get the preliminary investigation for charging as soon as possible. Dear Minister, will you be able to send the preliminary investigation to us by next spring at the latest? In that study, D66 wants to pay attention to the advantages and disadvantages of a rush tax. We need to talk about whether we want to tax emission-free cars or not. We need to think about a registration system. How do we deal with the privacy of motorists and data management? This is a bit like the discussion with Mrs De Pater-Postma of just now. And how do we deal with taxing car use in areas where people are particularly dependent on cars, such as shrinking regions? The sooner that investigation is completed, the sooner we can talk about these important issues. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that we will gain experience with pilots in paying for car use, but so far we have not seen a pilot. To speak with Mr Ziengs: a deal is a deal. As far as D66 is concerned, we will therefore get to work as quickly as possible with a pilot in the Amsterdam region. The capital has already indicated earlier this year that he wants to work with such a pilot himself. Minister, pick up that glove! Mr. Chairman. The best car kilometer for the environment is, of course, the one you don't make. The Climate Agreement talks about preventing 8 billion business kilometres by 2030. How does the Secretary of State see the timetable for achieving that goal? And what instruments does it intend to use for this purpose? Finally, Mr President. In our own country the solar car of Lightyear is currently being developed, an electric car that runs on the power of the sun. Can the Secretary of State confirm the agreement under the Climate Agreement that a separate addition category is being introduced for solar cars, subject to a 0% rate until 2024? Mr. Chairman. Then the O.V. and the trail. I started my contribution by saying that we are running against borders, but sometimes borders are also crossed. Next year, the Netherlands may welcome not only the Song Festival, but also the international night train. That can come together: come to Rotterdam by train from all over Europe! Due to the hard work of this Secretary of State, Vienna is getting closer to the Dutch train traveller. When can we expect more destinations so that the train becomes a real alternative to short-distance flights in Europe? More than half of the Dutch live within a distance of about 15 kilometers from his work. That's actually a perfect distance to travel on a fast electric bike. It is therefore very nice that the Secretary of State has invested in new bicycle sheds and the lease bike. When you can safely drive on a nice spacious cycling track, you often take the bike to work or to college. D66 wants the cabinet to pay attention to the bike highways. In that light, the Haarlem-Amsterdam-Utrecht route deserves the necessary attention. Is the government going to work on this route in the short term? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the final issue from my own contribution, the maritime sector. D66 welcomes the Minister's ambition in the green deal maritime to make 150 inland waterway vessels climate neutral by 2030. The big question is, of course, how the Minister will achieve that goal. The industry itself is keen to hear, but many inland waterway shippers get to hear from banks "no" when they ask for a loan for a new, sustainable engine. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the financial sector and remind them of their responsibility in this matter? And is she willing to make more money available for this part of the green deal? Mr President, I will conclude. My contribution was about boundaries. Boundaries can also be bridged. And no, this is not a bridge to colleague Paternotte, but a final question to the Minister. What about the plans for the return of the Paddle Pool Bridge in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u125	I'll just pick up the bridge and head for the maritime sector. I hear the problems mentioned and then Mr Schonis of D66 mentions the green deal in inland waterway transport. I know him as a regular visitor to inland waterway transport, but I have noticed quite different problems in inland waterway transport. They have to do with all that shit about sustainability from Brussels, stuff about all kinds of things that they can't meet, about noise, about their beds that are too short. If you really want to stand up for inland waterway transport, are you prepared to remove this kind of crazy rules and ensure that inland waterway transport stays on its feet at the end of the year rather than sinking into the crazy policy that comes from this cabinet and from Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u126	I think I have just said that I am happy, and you should appeal to me to say that in the green deal money has been agreed to help the inland waterway sector to become more sustainable. That's one. I think you are referring to demands from the Rhine Commission, the international committee. That is not even Europe or Brussels. We can discuss the implementation of these requirements once again at the AO Maritime. I find it a little strange that you are reacting in this way, because once again, I believe that the cabinet has allocated extra money to this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u127	This is really incomprehensible. There are small inland waterway vessels standing on falls. Those people have mortgaged their ship. That's their place. That's what they live on. That's their daily bread. And then you bring up a green deal that would be a problem. Those people are gonna fall by the end of the year. Then we're not gonna wait for an AO Maritime. We're waiting for D66's support to help these people for once. It would be a good thing if you stood behind us and made sure that the inland waterway shipper simply had a future, because that is what we need. Always have the mouth full of modal shift, but leave those people in the cold! Can we count on you for once or will you not give us home again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u128	You can count on me when it comes to accelerating the sustainability of the inland waterway sector. Where there is regulation, I would like to look with you to see where we can propose solutions. Apparently, Mr. Van Aalst, I'm speaking to other skippers at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you. I call Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will not waste a good crisis, for in a crisis you can seize opportunities that otherwise seem too far away. Under pressure, things become liquid. Winston Churchill recognized such an opportunity during World War II, an opportunity to form a union of nations, which seemed unthinkable shortly before. Churchill also wanted to go to the United States of Europe. We're not there yet. But never washed a good crisis. He would have said so. We've already had the ode to the car, we've already had the Dream Flight in the Efteling, but I'd like to ask the rulers to discover the Churchill in themselves. Because that's how we look at the Netherlands today: full of ideas, entrepreneurship and decisiveness, ready to work on the climate crisis and the nitrogen crisis. Calling on the Minister and the Secretary of State not to manage these crises, but to use both hands to do something special. On behalf of team IenW of D66, my colleague Van Eijs and our unsophisticated policy staff, I can take care of the environmental, aviation and circular economy part of the opportunities we see. I'll start with the economy. We have a chance to get cleaner soon. Every year, 80 billion tons of materials circulate across the earth. As a result of prosperity growth and population growth, this amount will double over the next 25 years. We see the boundaries every day: from plastic soup to toxic substances in our own ecosystem. Using the time of raw materials and dumping, drinking a can and plundering away, is over. Entrepreneurs are ready to do it differently. The CBS and the PBL showed that every year we throw away 57 million: the value of discarded phones, TVs, laptops, waste that is worth gold. A Dutch company like Closing the Loop recycles discarded phones to new raw materials, Auping makes new mattresses from old mattresses. To accelerate this circular economy, we need more decisiveness from entrepreneurs and companies. A task force recently advised the cabinet to launch a campaign on circular by design. Is the Secretary of State going to work on this? Moreover, we believe that deposit money on cans can also help. Two is the chance we have for really clean air. If we want to seize that opportunity, we have to draw boundaries. I see Mr Moorlag first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u131	That's right. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u132	The plea for a more circular economy has been taken from my heart. This summer I found out during work visits that a drilling machine that is in the house for years is only used for 12 minutes net throughout its lifetime. Sharing stuff should be encouraged more. Mr Paternotte talks about the large flows of employers. Is he also aware that there are village communities and neighbourhoods that not only want to generate local energy, but also want to work locally circularly? They want to produce their own food, share more stuff and share mobility with each other through sub-cars and the like. What is Mr Paternotte's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u133	We think that is a fantastic initiative. In addition, you can of course let government and market go hand in hand. These are not things the government has to organize, but you can facilitate them. I've lived in one of those streets myself. I saw that the parking spaces that became available for Greenwheels made people talk about whether they needed a car if they could use a car. Facilitating all such sub-concepts, but letting them be offered by innovative entrepreneurs and start-ups who are ready to work on them, is as we prefer to see it in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u134	I agree with such a two-track policy. In my contribution, I would like to propose, following pilots to make 17 districts and villages completely natural gas-free, to facilitate the circular concept that these communities want to develop. Does Mr Paternotte share that view and aim?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u135	At least I find it very interesting. I am going to look with great interest at the motion you are likely to table, or the proposal you are going to make. That's the great thing you see now: in some neighbourhoods, experiences are gained with best practices that can make the energy transition in so many neighbourhoods faster and that we can get rid of the gas faster. That's the stage we're in right now. I am therefore very interested in the ideas you will be explaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u137	Mr. Chairman. 50 years and two weeks ago, the Netherlands began to measure air quality. The environmental service Rijnmond installed the first measuring point near Rotterdam, in the minister's backyard, which I do not think was born at the time. At least I can't imagine that. The air there was similar to that in Beijing today. "Vlaardingen-West stinks like the plague" chanted students from public school community Casimir. Their school had to close because of the smog. They were clean air drags, but they were right. And they also got right, because the fuel oil was restricted, the industry got rules and Rotterdam could breathe again. Smog and soot are much less nowadays, but invisible dirty air has come in place. The Lung Fund and the Lung Doctors are ringing the bell. In one child in five with asthma, asthma has been caused by poor air quality. Lung doctors and the Long Fund estimate that at least 11,000 people die prematurely from air pollution every year. Who lives in Amsterdam near the highway and near Schiphol Airport, breathes air equivalent to smoking five to ten cigarettes a day. I'd rather my daughter didn't smoke half a pack of cigarettes anymore. I'm going to ask the Secretary of State if that would apply to her. At the Passenger Terminal Amsterdam, where I lived about next door, a huge fuel oil bomb comes in every day in the form of a cruise ship. The cruise sector has record year after record year in the Netherlands. How long do these mega-pollutants continue to moor in the city centre of Amsterdam is my question to the Minister. Shouldn't these ships just be standard on the shore current? The Clean Air Agreement is welcome and desperately needed. The agreement should deliver concrete health benefits, with at least half less damage to health caused by air pollution by 2030. That's clear. D66 would like to know when the measures will become concrete and when they will be introduced, because there is now an additional opportunity here. Where nitrogen comes out, fine dust also comes out. We know about Schiphol and highways. Where ammonia comes out, it's often smelly. We know that from the Brabant Peel. For example, in bottleneck areas identified by the National Air Quality Cooperation Programme, we see that in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Eindhoven, Arnhem and 44 locations with intensive livestock farming the limits for air quality, fine dust and odour nuisance are systematically exceeded. The question to the two directors is whether they see a chance to do triple work here, by preventing our Dutch nature from being overgrown by nitrogen, with much less smell in the air and cleaner air in our lungs. The Crisis and Recovery Act has recently allowed municipalities to address these air quality bottlenecks. Can the Secretary of State explain how this is being used? Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the airplane. We have opportunities to make flying much cleaner. At Schiphol Airport you could already reduce a large part of the emissions by e.g. taxiing electrically. Mr Amhaouch mentioned it. At Frankfurt Airport Lufthansa has a kind of aircraft warehouse. It's called the WheelTug. It drags them electrically to their take-off or landing site or to their gate. If you sell the profits against the number of aircraft suitable at Schiphol Airport, 737's, the A320 series, you can save at least 40 million kilos of kerosene. So electric offers opportunities and according to aviation as well. For example, easyJet wants an electric scheduled service between Amsterdam and London from 2027 onwards, Rolls-Royce and Airbus are fully committed to the innovation of electric motors and we see startups emerging worldwide around electric flies. But maybe even more important is Angela Merkel's recent statement. It wants to make Germany lead in the field of sustainable aviation. I ask the Minister when the Netherlands will seize this opportunity with both hands. What is the status of the Sustainable Aviation Agreement? When do you expect to be able to deliver a final agreement? When do we stop talking about electric taxiing and go electric taxiing at Schiphol? What role can the pilots of the NLR play in this? And is the Minister willing to invest in knowledge and skills in the Netherlands to stimulate electric or hybrid flying and innovation in aviation? Mr. Chairman. As in the air, aviation also sees that there are limits to growth. Hans Alders, actually Mister Luchtvaart, spoke in the Lower House this spring. He told us it was a good idea. Residents around airports are often at their expense because of the rapid growth. They can't do it anymore. Growth of Schiphol may therefore only be achieved with less nuisance. First see, then believe. When can we expect the plan for less nuisance? The surroundings of Schiphol are dying for that. In Eindhoven, the Van Geel Committee said: make a pass on the spot. The Minister has stopped the growth of Eindhoven. That's very wise. I'd like to compliment you on that. As far as we're concerned, we do the same for Rotterdam The Hague. The county wants a new heliport. Some of the carriers went on to praise it and said: now Rotterdam can grow considerably. This could lead to more space on Rotterdam The Hague. As far as we are concerned, that is not happening at the moment. Let us, like in Amsterdam, arrange for a pass to be made on the site for Rotterdam. For the time being, no growth and only when the CO, particulate matter and nuisance are reduced will there be room again. Of course, there must be the necessary space for the trauma helicopters. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Does she say with us: no growth in the next four years; first see that nuisance and emissions are falling and then look further?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u138	CO, ultra-fine dust, sound. Mr Paternotte outlined very clearly the harsh conditions for aviation. My question is therefore: doesn't he give the residents of Schiphol the same as he advocates at Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven? Do these three factors have to go down before growth can be discussed at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u139	We have argued in favour of that reduction path for fine dust and for less nuisance. The Minister himself said that this is a tough condition for me; I want to see it first, then believe it and then we will make decisions. This means that we say to the residents around Schiphol: we are not going to grow until you do get less trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u140	Mr Paternotte now forgets very cleverly the word CO. For Rotterdam, you just said: CO, ultra-fine dust and sound must all go down before growth can be discussed. Is that the same for Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u141	We must then ensure that we are able to measure this very well in the years to come. There is a difference in importance. You know the mix at the airports in Eindhoven and Rotterdam. We just heard several speakers on holiday flights. Of course, they're beautiful. It's nice that we can go on vacation. But for the economy of Rotterdam and Eindhoven, this does not generate very many jobs. Schiphol is a different category in that respect. In my opinion, it is a tough condition that the inhabitants there should be less inconvenience before you can make a decision on growth. In the future, we will indeed have to move towards a ceiling on emissions that can come from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mrs. Schröder. I'll say it again. I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u143	Kröger. And it's still Kröger. I'm already married.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u144	Dröge is also a beautiful name. Mrs. Dröge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u145	All variations are possible; they're not going to be him. Good. It is clear that Mr Paternotte is not entirely in favour of equality of law and wants stricter standards for Rotterdam and Eindhoven than for Schiphol. We have tabled a motion to say: bet on a standstill, a ceiling on ultra-fine dust, because residents around Schiphol should not be exposed to more ultra-fine dust. We hope that Mr Paternotte is consistent and also wants to apply to Schiphol what he advocated for Rotterdam and Eindhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u146	I don't think that's entirely fair. I myself have heard you acknowledge that we are still developing standards for ultra-fine dust. At the moment when you are still mapping out what the precise effects are and what standards are involved, it is difficult to base policies on them. It's a concern I have. We have seen the first intermediate reports of the RIVM and from that you get the impression that there is a problem with ultra-fine dust. As far as we are concerned, this should also lead to a reduction in the future, indeed. But I myself have heard you acknowledge that you need to know exactly what is going on and what standards work before you can make policies on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u148	I'll be at Schiphol myself. Our airport is still the fourteenth of the world and the third of Europe. Maybe Schiphol will never be the largest in Europe again, but let Schiphol become the greenest. We still see many opportunities for this, for example through airport charges. Since this year, the biggest noisemaker has been paying more. As a result, airport charges are reduced for the use of the newest, quiet models. We have called for this with Mr Bruins and it works. Delta Airlines has removed almost all decades old aircraft from Schiphol Airport and these are deployed elsewhere. At Schiphol Airport, only the A350 and the A330neo are operated, with the cleanest engine Airbus can now build. EasyJet does the same thing and China Southern even announced to send the cleanest device to Schiphol. What effect does the Minister see of the differentiation of airport charges? The question is whether we can make another move here, because the cleaner and quieter the better. What strikes me is that the costs incurred by an air carrier at Schiphol Airport at airport charges are still among the lowest in Europe, despite the fact that they have recently been increased. Is Schiphol a discounter that keeps costs low or is this a legacy of the time that Director Nijhuis was still striving for rapid growth and attracting as many new companies as possible? I would like to hear from the Minister why this is the case. And is she willing to close the gap further by setting higher airport rates for the largest kerosene slurpers? Frankfurt, Geneva and Zurich are airports that have incorporated emission charges into port charges. The emission of nitrogen oxide at start-up and landing also determines the amount of port fees. Is the Minister prepared to agree on emission charges with Dutch airports in line with this Swiss-German model? Mr. Chairman. My appeal to the rulers is: dare to be the duo together that took the nitrogen and climate crisis with both hands to do it differently, so that the Netherlands can make money with the inevitably clean future of mobility, so that Cora and Stientje were the rulers who referred dirty air to history!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenk has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u150	I was waiting to see if there was anything else about Schiphol in the sea. Now I hear coalition parties say: well, that's just windowdressing from D66, because they don't want to grow and do that as a diversion? How serious is D66 with Schiphol in the sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u151	When you hear coalition parties say that, I hope you will ask them to be held accountable in a moment, because I think we did our best to get that on the agenda. I was very pleased when the Minister said last week: we are going to set up a framework conditions, and a three-stage rocket, she called it "to serve as a basis for a serious investigation." As far as we're concerned, we're not saying that we need to build that airport right now, but I want to know exactly what the pros and cons are, because in the present place, Schiphol is blowing up against its limits. I have often mentioned the example of Amstelveen, and I have also talked about this with the aldermen from Amstelveen. There is a huge crisis in the housing market in that region. They want to build 2,500 student homes there, but this can't be because Schiphol is nearby. They're all of those kinds of issues that make you think: we really need to look wider for the long-term solutions for Schiphol. But I also recognise that for the short and medium term we do not yet have that island at sea, and that is why we have a debate on this short and medium term one week after we have had the debate on Schiphol at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u152	I am disappointed that I do not hear it, because there was something in the newspaper today about a leaked draft note and a minister who does not think he wants to implement it at all. So I find it really sad that D66 doesn't even mention this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u153	I will have to learn to live with Mrs Van Brenk's disappointment. In any case, let me use this interruption to establish that last week the Minister really said something different than what I read in the newspaper this morning. I don't know exactly what that's based on either. It is good that we continue to talk about the possibility of investigating Schiphol at sea. Furthermore, I hope that you will also present the insinuations that you began with your first interruption to the people you have heard of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u154	I'd like to look for the inner Churchill at Mr Paternotte's. "Never washed a good crisis" he said. We heard Mr Dijkstra say in his speech: Lelystad must open as soon as possible; do not wait for Mr Remkes. There was also a motion from the Party for Animals, which did not support D66 at the time. But would Mr Paternotte perhaps be prepared to wait for Remkes' advice before the Minister decides on the opening of Lelystad Airport, given the new information we now have on nitrogen emissions, on projects that are not yet finished and on the idea that external auctioning might not be legitimate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u155	Yeah, that sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u156	It seems very sensible to me. Just a check: we are talking about May 2020. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u157	I think Johan Remkes' agenda is at least filled with the army's commitment today. So I do not know exactly what agenda the committee is going to draw up. I'm looking for a good quote from Churchill, but there will still be a lot of blood, sweat, toil and tears to shed for them. I assume they'll decide their own agenda. But I do think it is important that we have the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u158	So again, you're right that the Minister should wait for a decision on the opening of Lelystad Airport until the Remkes Committee has issued that opinion, expected somewhere in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u159	Once again, I do not know exactly what the agenda is going to be, but I do think it would be wise for us to have the opinion of the Remkes Committee, or perhaps perhaps the Thieme Committee, I do not know, to be able to determine what we can, should and should not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I call Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today's question is: is our mobility agenda, our mobility policy, sustainable and future-proof? To the taste of the Labour Party, that is not the case on two parts. A Climate Agreement has been concluded which should be reflected in the mobility agenda, but to our liking it is too marginal. Mr Dijkstra rightly pointed out that mobility is a basic requirement of people. It's a sense of freedom that you really want to have. People are traveling and have become more traveling. But then there is the question of how we are going to curb the growth of air traffic. In the opinion of the PvdA, you will then have to offer a good and full alternative. This could be done up to 800 to 1,500 kilometres by connecting the necessary links in the high-speed network in Europe. The Netherlands is left behind in that. We currently have an HSL connection in the south direction, but the train connection towards Berlin is just a cart track. Northeast, towards Hamburg and Scandinavia, is still unexplored terrain when you talk about high-speed connections. This is why the Labour Party is calling for an agenda based on investment in the missing links in the HSL network. My question to both rulers is: do they agree? Do they also see the usefulness and necessity of laying Dutch links in the HSL network, even in the knowledge that ten, fifteen or twenty years of planning and implementation are soon to come? Should we not now take the necessary steps to build these links? Such a link in the north-east direction could at the same time act as Lelyline. I travel daily from Scheemda to The Hague. If I travel across the Veluwe, the journey time is even shorter at this time than if I travel through Zwolle and the Hanselijn to The Hague. It takes me exactly four minutes longer. It is a shame that we still have such long travel times within a small country like the Netherlands. The links for the HSL connections must come to me in my opinion. Mr. Chairman. The second point is the gap between urban and rural areas. That is very visible today. I believe that the problem of nitrogen needs to be addressed. The agricultural sector will have to be reformed. At the same time, it has become relatively worse in rural areas in recent years. A lot of amenities are under pressure. This is not only the case within the Netherlands, but throughout Europe. In England and France, the deep sentiment in rural areas is that the urban population and the urban centres are well served with facilities. The countryside is becoming increasingly disadvantaged. The Labour Party considers that regional mobility needs and demand for mobility can not only lead the system of network and market capacity analysis, because it serves only the thick transport flows. Mr. Chairman. I'll give you the gap. Here a proposal has been made to allocate 40 or 50 billion to Schiphol Airport at sea. 40 or 50 billion! That's financially not swallowing melon, that's swallowing a stray. Such a proposal is made with the greatest ease, but at the same time you can see that projects such as the N35 in Overijssel, the Lelyline, the approach to mobility problems in the head of North Holland and the railway link Heerlen-Aachen are not getting off the ground. These are relatively small projects, but they are projects with which you can greatly improve the level of mobility and also the quality of life in rural and peripheral areas. My question to both rulers: do they endorse that analysis? Are they also prepared to make this shift and to appreciate and properly serve this mobility demand and mobility need? Mr. Chairman. My first train trip was to Delfzijl, from Bedum station to Delfzijl. We went to the beach. I was five years old and we went to that little sleazy beach, but I just loved it! We didn't have a car at home and that trip was a rib for my parents. We didn't have much at home and we didn't have a car. That's why a train trip like that was really something. Mrs Kröger refers to the word 'transport poverty' in her mouth, and I too would like to give the children the opportunity to use public transport. In a number of places and a number of moments that is already possible. In rail transport it is already possible and in some calls for tenders and concessions for bus lines there is also room for free transport or the free carriage of children up to 12 years old. I would like every child in the Netherlands and my question to the Secretary of State whether she is prepared to explore whether free public transport can be made possible for children up to 12 years of age on Wednesday afternoons and on weekends. As far as we are concerned, this would be a first step towards free open transport for young people. It is also important to get children used to public transport. If we want to make less use of the car and make more use of public transport, then you cannot start with it young enough. Mr. Chairman. I'm switching to the circular economy. I was talking about this in the brief debate with Mr Paternotte. I come to villages and neighbourhoods where I am told: "We do not just want to make our energy supply more sustainable, because we notice that three quarters of our energy needs are related to mobility, stuff and food. We want to investigate whether we can grow our own food in our village and whether we can promote the sharing of goods, such as cars." I believe that we should support this, just as we support the removal of natural gas from neighbourhoods. For this purpose, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has designated 17 districts. My question to the Secretary of State is very specific: is she willing to start a pilot to see if we can facilitate seventeen neighbourhoods, villages or neighborhoods to really make that leap to circularity? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point, and that is a very small point. It's about the cigarette butt. That is a very small source of pollution, but there are a lot, about 10 billion pieces in the Netherlands to be precise. Two billion butts are not cleaned up and disappear into the environment. It will then take 12 to 15 years to break down these butts and in fact you will still have a very fine form of plastic in the environment. Mr. Chairman. You can use the gun on the chest to tell people, "You will not throw away any cigarette." But such a change of behavior is really a matter of a very long time, because you don't realize that one, two, three. Is it therefore not much more effective to oblige or confront the tobacco industry with a duty to make cigarette butts from biodegradable material and to ban cigarette filters that are not biodegradable quickly? I know how difficult it is to communicate with the tobacco industry, but it doesn't have to be, because in the internet consultation, the tobacco industry can express its views. But is the Minister prepared to oblige industry to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you. I call Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the government's perhaps best budget. Let us not forget that the environment is an important part of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. Then we are talking about caring for our environment, for God's creation, and it is about investing in the future of our country. We stand for a great social transition in the way we live, work and recreate together. This social transition cannot be achieved without major investment in our infrastructure. This is crucial for the development of the Netherlands. I think it would be great to be Minister of Infrastructure and Water State at this time and to be able to build an investment fund for the future of our country. Why the focus on 130, the Maut, a regional airport? I can imagine that those are the dossiers that the Minister is not very happy about. Where's the big story about infrastructure in the future? My colleague Stieneke van der Graaf looks forward to having this debate with the Minister during the general discussion MIRT. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had the debate with the Secretary of State on the circular economy. I also told you about my conversation with the soft drinks producer. This soft drinks producer wants to make the packaging completely circular in 2025. That means the power cap and look back to the producer. Now a lot of cap and can still disappear in the pmd container, where it cannot get a high-quality recycling application. Or, worse yet, a lot disappears into the litter. The monitoring of Rijkswaterstaat shows that despite the great effort of the business community, the number of small plastic bottles in the litter is increasing. This shows the introduction of deposit money on small bottles. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, when it comes to gaze, we have found that VNG and the packaging industry have not been able to establish an action plan and reduction rate for cans in litter. My group finds that very worrying, because there is much more can in the litter than plastic bottles. We have the risk of the shift. I visited a dairy farmer in Leusden together with colleague Von Martels of the CDA. There we have also heard that at least 4,000 cows die every year as a result of sharp-in. I am therefore very pleased that there is now a large majority in the Chamber for legal measures for gaze. We therefore ask the Secretary of State to initiate the same process for cans as for plastic bottles. Yesterday, in the debate, there was an exchange of views that the Secretary of State is planning legal measures and that she is also sending a letter to the Chamber on this matter. For my group, deposit money is not an end in itself, but we know that this is the instrument to make circular flows from hat and gaze. That is why the Christian Union has been a fervent advocate of deposit money for many years. We are also very pleased with the speed of this Secretary of State on this dossier. Mr. Chairman. I would otherwise like to raise the issue of textile recycling here, but that was also widely exchanged yesterday. So I'm gonna leave that alone now. There's gonna be another V.A.O. Then the subject repair, repair. This cabinet is working on a circular economy and this year and next year it will raise 80 million extra. Within a circular economy, it's about reducing, reusing and recycling stuff: reduce, reuse, recycle. Repairing, repairing, of equipment as a link cannot be lacking and deserves a place in the circular craft centres. The Repair Café Foundation plays an important role in setting up a repair infrastructure in our society. In neighborhoods and neighborhoods repair cafés are organized. These initiatives also have a social purpose. That is why ChristianUnion and D66 have tabled an amendment to strengthen this type of initiative and increase repair infrastructure as a link in the circular economy. Mr. Chairman. What I'm worried about is that I'm still getting signals that there's not enough demand for recycling. Divorce is therefore even more expensive than incineration of waste. That can't be the intention. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The government can be a launching customer with its purchasing policy, and the government has instruments of regulation to make recycling rates mandatory in different product flows. For some product flows, we already do that. When is the time to use this more widely, my question is for the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Last year I drew attention to the waste separation at stations. I then paid a working visit to Amsterdam Centraal station. I must say that was very educational. Despite all efforts, waste separation in the train and at the stations is not successful. Frankly, human behavior is the weak link here. However, my group believes that we should continue to work on this; changing behaviour is a long-term issue. Can the Secretary of State outline how her contacts with NS and ProRail are going? Does she support my conclusion that we must keep our ambition high and that we must continue to work on this? Mr. Chairman. Stations are public places, but there are more public places, such as amusement parks and recreational parks. The waste collected here has broadly the same characteristics as household waste, which is collected by municipalities. Municipalities are financially compensated by the Waste Packaging Fund, but these often socially oriented companies, which are public places, are not compensated. A fee can help to boost recycling of waste collected outside the home. Does the Secretary of State want to investigate this? I know I asked this question earlier, but the circular economy is getting higher and higher; we feel the urgency is increasing. I really think that if we look at this again, it can contribute to the goal that we all have in mind. Hence my question. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a whole different subject, the carless Sunday. At the end of September, carless Sundays were celebrated in several European cities. The images looked festive and relaxed. People met in places where the cars wouldn't get drunk. To stay in car terms: as a society with our 24-hour economy, we are often in the highest gear, but it is good for people and nature to slow down once a year, to calm down and show that we can do more without the car. That is why ChristenUnion and GroenLinks are today proposing to embrace the carless Sunday in the Netherlands. Of course, the decision-making process lies with municipalities, but the Empire can promote this idea positively and support municipalities in communication if they wish. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u164	It sounds like a very sympathetic proposal on sustainability. I heard from your colleague Mr van GroenLinks that it would apply to the whole of the Netherlands. But we already have a question from the CDA Group. Mobility, the car, is also used, especially on Sundays, to make family visits. There are also people who need the car to go to church. As you undoubtedly know, there are churches picking up people by car so they can go to the divine service. How does the Christian Union see that? Does the proposal mean that people should sit at home, behind the geraniums, so that everyone can experience a sustainable Sunday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u165	That last thing is exactly what we don't want. I have seen images of cities in Europe celebrating carless Sundays where there was a lot of creativity. Where people met on the street. Where there were events. Where kids on the street were crayons. So I didn't see any people behind the geraniums. At the same time, it is said that this applies to the whole of the Netherlands. Sure. As far as I am concerned, all Dutch municipalities should have the possibility of setting up a car-free Sunday for their own territory. That may be possible for the whole territory, perhaps only for the centre, for a special district, perhaps only for certain streets. So it's not like the whole of the Netherlands has a carless Sunday once a year. It really is about bottom-up decision-making by municipalities. Just a day of meeting and rest in an overly hectic society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u166	I was at the last carless Sunday in Brussels. I do recognize those images of skating people on a street, which is incredibly fun and fun. But at the same time, I see something else. Let's say we were all gonna roll this out here. Then it's not that easy to implement. In addition to the fact that people who live in the inner cores come home and cannot go on the road to visit others, I also see all those roads that have to be blocked by volunteers. There's a lot of work to be done. So I really question the feasibility of this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u167	I have seen in European cities that it is possible and that there is much support for it. I also think it is important that we do not decide here from the Lower House, but that there is real support in society. I also think it is very important to appeal to creativity in society. It is not intended that people can no longer visit family or that people can no longer visit church. Let it be clear that it applies to one Sunday in the year that counts 365 days. For example, I can imagine that electric vans are going to pick up people who are badly on their feet, so that they can still go to church. I don't see the bears right here on the road the CDA sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u168	I'm a little more positive than the CDA. So, just like with GroenLinks at that time, Mrs Dik-Faber wasn't there.I want to compliment her: nice idea, good idea. I also asked later whether, if it pleases, it could be extended to more Sundays a year. Or does the Christian Union remain the one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u169	My group embraces carless Sunday as a day of awareness and a day of rest in an overly hectic society. I think it really opens eyes and triggers a lot of creativity. If there are municipalities, I would like to stress municipalities that think it tastes more like it, I do not believe that there are a lot of rules in the way of further organising it on the basis of local support. But my call today is to join the European carless Sunday. It is one day in the year, I believe in September, on which several European cities celebrate this carless Sunday. Then we can send out a powerful signal together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u170	That is a good question from Mr Stoffer. I think he wants it to be 52 Sundays a year, and you too, in fact, I see you smiling because of meaning and other things. You are talking about support from the bottom up, but how can this be maintained? You're asking a lot of people. A lot of people don't want it either, I guess. Now you're talking about electric vans driving. Well, I don't think you were supposed to drive. How is this maintained and does this not cause all kinds of misery in the execution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u171	There's all these bears being put on the road that I'm wondering if we should put them up. We have the examples in other European cities and I have not heard that enforcement there was such a huge problem. Each city has made its own choices. One city had closed down the center area and another only certain streets and squares. This has been done on the basis of support and local decision-making. So I just don't see the bears on the road that Mr Dijkstra sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u172	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u173	I thought Mr Dijkstra might come this way again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u174	No, he's not coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u175	Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u176	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mr. Chairman. I would like to go back to last year, when the Sienot/Dik-Faber motion was adopted with the request to place accelerated pictograms on road signs for alternative fuels by working with work when there is maintenance work on the road. How's it going? It seems to my group that it is a realistic timeline to have all signs provided with a new pictogram by 2022. We now see that under pressure from the ruling of the right speed signs are replaced very quickly. Then the icons for alternative fuels can also be placed very quickly. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the train. I have heard fantastic noises about the European train and I would very much like to join. I think someone was just talking about unexplored territory towards Scandinavia. I can confirm that from my own experience. It would just be so good if we put a lot more effort on that European train network. Then I look at the Dutch train. We think it is important that people can choose the train over the car, but we must of course ensure that the internet is good, fast and reliable in the train. That is why today, together with the CDA, we have tabled an amendment to improve the internet on the train for greater comfort for passengers. Mr President, inland waterway transport. The greening of inland waterways is an important part of the green deal maritime. It is very important to keep the inland waterway sector attractive for commercial and production companies in the future. New forms of cooperation, a labeling system for inland waterway vessels and the establishment of a sustainability fund will be used. With the amount of 15 million currently available, pilot projects and new innovations can be supported. Does the Minister see any possibility of taking a further step in this direction? Then there is the issue of sound screens. There is really a lot going on in this budget. Last year the Van der Graaf/Sienot motion was adopted on the problem that residents experience more noise pollution due to outdated sound screens, increased pressure on the highways and the higher speed limit, such as along the A28 near Harderwijk and the A20 at Maassluis. The government has been asked to consult with Rijkswaterstaat, provinces and municipalities in order to come up with an early plan to reduce the nuisance for residents when replacing sound screens. However, my group is getting signals that the municipality and the province are benevolent in these places, but that Rijkswaterstaat does not cooperate. We are asking for action from the Minister. What about the execution of the motion? Have concrete plans been drawn up to reduce noise pollution for residents and, if so, where? Mr. Chairman. My final point is the tax on heavy goods vehicles. Work is under way on a bill on the truck tax. The consultation phase is closed. What about the progress of this bill? In March, the Chamber adopted the Van der Graaf/Schonis motion in which the government was asked to develop different variations for tariff differentiation in order to stimulate emission-free freight transport. What is the situation with regard to the drafting of this motion? Mr. Chairman. This was my first-term contribution. I look forward to replying to the directors. I wish them every success in the further tasks that await them, also in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u178	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u179	Mr Paternotte has now been found ready to revise his position of D66 and to wait until the Remkes Committee has also advised on aviation in relation to the decision-making around Lelystad Airport. I now know informally that the CDA is not prepared to do so. I know it is not your file, but would you be willing to ask Mr Bruins, your colleague on aviation, if he could support the following? Is he prepared to wait for Lelystad Airport to be decided until the Remkes Committee has advised on this? Perhaps in the second term you can return a little bit of that here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u180	I would, of course, like to present everything to my colleague, Mr Bruins, but there is nothing to prevent Mr Van Raan from contacting Mr Bruins to hear how we stand on this dossier. I have, of course, also read the opinion of the Remkes Committee. There are all kinds of important things in there, and there will be an opinion on aviation. We'll have to discuss that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u181	I understand the answer, but since we are dealing with a little change here, it is good to discuss it in this Chamber too. So I'd appreciate it if you could ask that question and reconnect the answer. Thank you if you'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u182	It is a repeat of the question, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u183	I'm gonna find out exactly what the question was and what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u184	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A carless Sunday is an interesting idea by Mrs Dik-Faber. A tractorless Wednesday might be a first step, but that's not what this is about today. Mr. Chairman. Last night, we were already debating with the Secretary of State of IenW... the Secretary of State of IenW... the Secretary of State of IenW. I gave her two compliments. Those compliments were justified, but of course I shouldn't make a habit of that. The Secretary of State knows that, too. There is also much less reason for this, because today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, which in the greenest cabinet has ever been called 'Infrastructure and Environment', let alone that the old term 'Environmental management' would still be in the name. Unfortunately, this is also reflected in the policy pursued and in the state of our environment. This environmental policy is structuralally inadequate, too late and undermining economic interests. Last year we saw that Tata Steel could not meet the environmental requirements and therefore received an adapted permit with more flexible standards. We now see that Chemelot, a large chemical complex in Limburg, does not apply for a new discharge permit in time, despite repeated pressure from the licence holder, but then automatically receives an extension. All this is seen as the most normal thing in the world. From the attic of my house I look forward to the chimneys of Chemelot in South Limburg near Geleen. I am concerned as a complex that works with so many chemicals, so casually handling permits. The Waterschap Limburg is also very concerned about this. Can the Minister imagine these concerns? It gets worse. The Health Council calculates that 12,000 people die prematurely every year from dirty air. We are dealing with polluted dredging that is dumped into nature under the guise of environmental improvement, but also batteries, asbestos and plastics are deliberately and industrially dumped into nature. We are also dealing with persistent substances in the soil such as PFAS. And we see that the Minister is already pre-sorting for non-achievement of water quality policy goals. Mr. Chairman. Environmental problems are not a natural phenomenon. It is policy, cabinet policy, in the past and now, that allows this to happen or even cause it to happen. Let me explain. First of all, in recent years, laws designed to protect our environment have been progressively dismantled. Laws such as the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Environment Act set aside the interests of nature for economic growth. The result is that the number of environmental impact assessments has been halved over the last ten years. And the reports that are still being made fail in seven out of ten cases. I'd like a response to that. We're just not investigating what harm we're doing anymore. If we don't do that anymore, we won't have to worry about it either, it looks like the cabinet creed. Because what you don't measure remains invisible and doesn't interfere with economic growth. But that is, of course, short-term thinking. Because even if you are blind to the negative effects of economic activity, there are of course consequences. A recent example is the PAS, which actually wiped out the negative effects of nitrogen under the carpet. The government was blind to that through a trick. If we look outside, I was talking about tractors, we can see where that ostrich policy has led. Secondly, supervision and control fail. It's been two years since the documentary Beerput Nederland was broadcast, but we haven't learned anything, it seems. Recently, after tips, it turned out that it was wrong with the land that was poured into nature. Ten ships were checked, and all ten of them weren't okay. And yet eight ships were allowed to dump their heavily polluted cargo. The MSC Zoe, the ship that lost containers at the Wadden and caused a huge environmental disaster, turned out to have had no working black box on board afterwards. It has already been established that there is virtually no such thing as a check on the handling of containers. Better monitoring is crucial, and the Animal Party will also support Mr Laçin's amendment in this respect. We have legislation banning degassing, but I have no idea how and where that should be enforced. The provincial states of South Holland are still demanding action and clarification today in the newspaper. How will the government prevent our living environment, our nature and the health of residents from being put at risk by degassing sailors? Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that this should be restricted? And most importantly, how is the government going to do that? The third aspect of the policy that is catastrophic for our environment is the slow rate of reaction. We're always behind the facts. PFAS substances are in the soil all over the country and it is only now that measures are in place; only after 50 years, Mr. Ziegs! Grass fields are replaced by artificial turf fields throughout the Netherlands and now we conclude that environmental pollution comes from these fields every day and that there is no recycling capacity. That's gotta be different. We need to take a much more critical look at the consequences of our actions, especially if you know that this can lead to irreversible environmental damage. If you are not allowed to dump tyres of the legislation as waste, but you are allowed to grind them, and then dump them on our artificial turf fields on which the children are exercising, then something is wrong. And because those chemicals and heavy metals from that rubber can also get into nature, the problem is only bigger. That should have just prevented the cabinet from doing so. In this case, prevention is much better than cure. Mr. Chairman. People all want clean air. They all want a clean environment. In the majority, people also want a ban on balloons, a ban on fireworks and the introduction of deposit money on bottles and cans. It is really not the case that protecting our environment and our health is a political spatter, not at all. So why aren't we seeing more action from the government in this area? I have to say: when it comes to cans and bottles, there is finally progress in the discussion about deposit money. This is mainly about bottles, and later perhaps cans. We talked about this in detail yesterday. So that was a good thing. There is little discussion about the negative effects of plastic balloons on the environment and animals. Everyone is actually convinced that there are negative consequences. A lot of municipalities already have a withdrawal ban, but those balloons are annoying enough not at municipal borders. When does the Cabinet take the first steps for a nationwide balloonoplate ban? 71% of the population is asking for this. The Secretary of State undertook to consult a bill for a ban on the use of agricultural poison by private individuals in the summer. Can she explain why this has not yet been consulted and when it will be? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of questions about the muskrat. Recently, the Union of Water Councils agreed to reduce the muskrat to the land border. That's what she's talking about. I have recently asked a number of questions about this to the Minister of LNV, which was in the LNV budget. The Minister referred this to the Minister of IenW; hence my questions. The Council on Animal Affairs believes that a different meaning should be given to the so-called plague animals. "Framing of animal species as pests is no longer acceptable," the council wrote in the publication The state of the animal, which was released on animal day. If animals are to be combated, they must be as animal-friendly as possible, according to the Council for Animal Affairs. Does the Minister endorse that advice? Because the plan of the waterboards is, of course, anything but animal-friendly. There is no one who believes that the mass drowning of animals, of musk rats.......................................................................................................................................................................... Moreover, it is a question of whether it is legal, first of all because killing animals, muskrats in this case, can only be done if we can drive them away or not. The field test that the waterboards present has never seriously investigated these alternatives. Waterboards are legally required to spare animals all avoidable pain, tension and suffering. That is a European law, which the Netherlands simply has to implement. Can the Minister reflect on that? And does she think that this is enough? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u186	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u187	Thank you, Mr President. It's about aviation. All signals are green for a shrinkage of aviation. I'll give you four clues. Support for shrinkage is increasing, as has already been mentioned elsewhere. There are now limits on climate, living environment and safety in the Aviation Note. The third indication is that the Netherlands is finally going to bring nitrogen emissions to a high level, so that a fairer picture is created and, I must say to Mr Dijkstra, that absurd, unsustainable fairytale world of the aviation sector is really going to be exposed. The fourth indication is that the Chamber agrees that airports should have a nature permit. The latter is a very important statement. It's shocking that it's necessary, but if this minister doesn't want to hear it, she should feel it. To this end, the Court has also adopted a motion in which it states that airports need a permit for nature. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u188	All signals are green, except of course you have to know how. I have asked many questions about this to Mr Van Raan. How are we gonna do that? A lot of spokesmen asked for that once. At the end of the day, you said that in order for aviation to shrink at an affordable price, you need to change the ICAO Global Convention first. So my question is: do you now have a solution to this, or do you have all that money, perhaps billions of euros, that is needed to buy off all existing rights and make it possible to reduce them? And where are you gonna get that from? Because it's nice that every time you sketch "we're going to shrink aviation enormously and halve Schiphol," but then you also have to tell the honest story. To that end, I would like to call you. So the question is, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u189	Before I respond, I would like to object to what Mr Paternotte is doing. He acts like the story of shrinking aviation wouldn't be a fair story. Aviation emissions, whether CO or particulate matter, and the contribution to the CO budget do not fit in any way within Paris' plans to allow the temperature increase to be less than 1.5 degrees. I therefore object to the suggestion that it would not be the fair story. Heard that and said that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u190	But Mr. Paternotte would like to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u191	I don't know, but first I'd like to answer the question of how we're going to do that. The good news in that question is, of course, that we may be able to agree that it is necessary. Then you can talk about how you're gonna do that. I think that's an important breakthrough. And how do you do that then... We have talked about alternatives to aviation, such as the train and other modes of transport. We've been talking about airline pricing. We have talked about tightening up the ETS for aviation. That's a whole set of measures and laws. Maybe there's a bit of social change in it, too. We've got flight shame now. It's a whole set of things you can do to make aviation shrink, just as much as we've experienced other transitions before in world history. In view of the importance of shrinking aviation, which Mr Paternotte is perhaps gradually moving towards, there is a whole arsenal of opportunities to do so. I honestly don't understand why he keeps coming back to that. We must first have the fundamental debate together as to whether we agree on this shrinkage and not on how to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u192	I would like to compliment GroenLinks. When you listen to Mrs Kröger, you often hear that she might want to shrink from aviation, but that she does ask the Minister what it costs. She wants to know if that's a realistic story. But when I ask you how you want to do it, you say: I actually want to talk about why we want to do it and then we can see how we do it later. We're here in parliament. You've been saying this for two years. Isn't it time to tell me how you want to do it? You said something about behavior change, but what do you want to do with all those existing rights, all those slots, the historical rights that airlines have under that global treaty at all our airports? How are you going to buy them off? Where are you gonna get that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u193	We've had a sector for 70 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u194	I do believe that you want to reduce aviation, but then you have to tell the honest story of how you want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u195	I believe that I have indicated that there is and will be a whole arsenal to achieve this. Mr Paternotte often talks about the origins of the growth of aviation with the Chicago Convention. That was a good idea at the time to promote aviation. This sector has been able to grow for 70 years within the boundaries of the economy, the environment and security. And that's over. That transition will, as I have just said, include a whole arsenal of resources, perhaps also means and actions that we cannot yet map out at all. But it will go hand in hand with redemption, with investments, with legislation, pricing, taxes, more trains and other skills that we need to train. That's all obvious. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte: let us unite in the shrinkage position and, together, let us examine all the possibilities that I now give and which are necessary to achieve that shrinkage. Besides...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u196	Mr. Van Raan, I'm sorry to interrupt. Otherwise we'll get a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u197	No, I have another supplement. I haven't said that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u198	Yes, but it's 6:05 p.m. and there are a few more speakers. I'm looking at the clock a little bit. I will allow Mr Paternotte one more interruption and then he will have his maximum number of interruptions for this debate. If you still have a bouncer, this is your chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u199	In any case, I would like to conclude that Van Raan says that all signals for shrinkage are green, but that he now acknowledges that this means taxes, buy-backs and prices. We will need a lot of money and a lot of new taxes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u200	Yeah, and we can all do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u201	That sounds like the honest story to me, so I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u202	I felt called upon by an entrapment from Mr Paternotte. He gave a great compliment to GroenLinks and said: what an incredibly good thing that GroenLinks wanted the minister to figure out what the cost of the shrinkage of aviation is. That was a proposal from Mr Van Raan and myself. Unfortunately, D66 did not vote for it. If Mr Paternotte really thinks this is such a great proposal, then we are going to table that motion again without any effort. That is my question to Mr Van Raan. Mr Paternotte could then express his appreciation with a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u203	Yes, that seems to me to be an excellent proposal from GroenLinks. I would also like to compliment GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u204	The instruments of debate are now being expanded very quickly. Mr Van Raan, you tend to take the floor if I haven't given you the floor. I would suggest that you continue with your speech. If Mrs Kröger has room for manoeuvre in the second term, then she should do the hand-out to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will once again congratulate GroenLinks on the fact that it has been more or less in line with the shrinkage position of the Party for Animals. Once again, all signals are on green. Mr. Chairman. We're gonna talk about the nature permits. Airports must have a natural permit. Period. They do, except for Eelde. Period. Then an airport can't open, especially when it's under construction. You can't go from a realized general aviation project like Lelystad Airport without a nature permit to a realized large commercial air traffic project, which Lelystad needs to become. You can also not anticipate a buy-out scheme for nitrogen space in order to achieve a project that has not yet been completed. You do not know whether that buyout is allowed or whether you are then allowed to cross externally without the law being amended. We just don't know yet. There's one thing you know for sure, though, is that that change of law won't be there in two months. You can't be sure right now if you're gonna get all those permits. This is especially true if your project has not yet been realized, like that of Lelystad Airport. My first question to the Minister is whether she thinks Lelystad Airport is already a project realized. What you do know for sure is that Remkes is not going to give an opinion on aviation until May next year, and thus on Lelystad Airport. What you know for sure, and what I want to give the Minister, is that opening Lelystad Airport to promote the growth of aviation runs counter to any healthy climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u206	Mr. Van Raan, I would remind you that you are already working on the time you may want to reserve for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u208	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wonder if you stopped the alarm while we were interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u210	Luckily, I don't do that, but the two clerks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u211	I see the very reliable Registry there, so I assume. Mr President, I will conclude. Lelystad Airport can't open. In fact, it is time for a set of ambitious measures to reduce aviation, with a kerosene tax, and I am looking at Mr Paternotte and a CO budget, I am looking at Mr Paternotte in line with a fair contribution to the 1.5°C target. On these points, the Party for Animals has held a number of motions. I call on the Chamber to support it. Let us work together to ensure that aviation will not destroy all our climate, nature and safety objectives on its own. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u212	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u213	Mr. Chairman. I apologise to my colleagues for not being able to attend the whole debate. After four hours of talking about pensions, I am glad to be able to talk about many different issues. Mr. Chairman. "Confidence in the future"; this is what was called the coalition agreement that was concluded in 2017. That's a big deal. It also takes a lot to have faith in the future. You must feel safe in your own environment and in your country. In addition, you should not only think about preventing attacks or crimes. Safety is also the confidence that you keep dry feet when the water rises, that the air you breathe does not make you sick, that you have clean water to drink, that you can safely move in traffic and that solid, affordable and accessible public transport is available. Mr. Chairman. I come to road safety. Unfortunately, despite all the ambitions, the number of road deaths is increasing rather than decreasing. We want to go to zero victims, but it's still a big concern. The number of older people is significant, as is the number of cyclists and the increasing number of scooters. Unfortunately, no additional money has been made available in this budget for road safety. Luckily, things are happening. For example, I mention those smart cameras that record the appendectomy behind the wheel. That's good. The Minister can say that this has never been shown to cause more accidents, but you do not tell me that. Look around you when you're in rush hour. Recently it appeared that almost a third of the road deaths involved not wearing a belt. The Minister already feels him coming. It's harsh that even a minister of this government reported almost proudly that he regularly didn't have a seat belt on the back seat of his service car. Fortunately, our Minister of Infrastructure and Water State called him to order. It is a situation that is almost exemplary for this government's image. Anyway, there's got to be something about this. Belts are there for a reason, and traffic rules aren't there either. Yet a lot of people patch them up, despite all kinds of campaigns. We may have to look for it somewhere else, for example in sanctioning. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, if you don't pay on time, we're going to think about making higher and income-dependent fines. At least that's what Minister Wiebes will learn. Or we're thinking about introducing a point system where you'll lose your driver's license temporarily after a number of times. I understand that the PVV also wants to tackle traffic offenders harder, so perhaps the PVV wants to join this issue. I'm looking forward to that. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps this is also the time to think about lowering the speed limit. If we go back to 100 km/h now, that also means fewer road deaths. Last week, the news from SecurityNL came about the number of heavy bicycle accidents that have risen again. In view of the ageing population, it is feared that this number will increase even further. We know that the Minister does not want a separate security plan for the elderly, but we still need something with that knowledge. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how she intends to put this back. This week SWOV also reported that the Netherlands has become more unsafe on the highways. There are more accidents involving more deaths. Distraction and speeding are important reasons, but there is also a lack of enforcement. SWOV argues that it is necessary to strengthen enforcement in order to increase security. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, we were asked to hold our motion on an emergency button on the scooter. After discussions with manufacturers, the Minister indicated that it is very personal what works in an emergency situation. After all, people with a scooter have a limitation. Some have less power in their hands and others in their feet. I can go along with this to a large extent, but there must be some form of uniformity. With the cars the brake is also in the same place. To stay in the Minister's language: what ruse can we come up with here? 50PLUS wants it to be recorded that there must always be an emergency stop device on a scooter. Today, the report on disabled vehicles was issued by the Safety Research Council. That puts that safety in a different light. What will the Minister do with the recommendations? Can we count on the Minister's action? The motion on the emergency button will be filed otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u214	Mr Van Aalst has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u215	It's still about the previous point. I think the PVV and 50PLUS can find each other on road safety. I thought the next paragraph was a pity. It was right about lowering the speed limit. The funny thing is that under this VVD policy, speed has been continuously reduced and the number of deaths on the highway has increased. The same is true in Germany. 40% of the roads have no maximum speed and the number of deaths has not increased. So you don't see a direct link between speed limit and the number of road deaths on the highway. Sorry for the introduction, Mr. Chairman. The interesting thing about this is, of course, that nine out of ten deaths do not fall on the highways, but on the underlying road network. I would therefore like to ask 50PLUS: can we not pay more attention to this? That's where the clappers can be made. I fully agree with you that we need to bring down the number of road deaths. Will we at least find the points where we can find each other? Nine out of ten deaths fall into the underlying traffic network. Let's focus on that, because that's where the blowers are going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u216	Mr Van Aalst certainly has a point there. It is true that the provincial roads in particular are dangerous. There is also the width a point, the trees that are along it and you name it. That is why our plea to look at senior friendly road layout, which means wider space and separate bike paths. But, yes, that's not possible everywhere. Where we can find each other, we like to work together on this subject, because we both find zero road deaths an important point. I shall continue, Mr President, on another subject: the maintenance of infrastructure, in particular the delayed and delayed maintenance. We have talked about this before, but the problem is still far from being resolved. Recently, the Minister sent a letter indicating that approximately three quarters of that deferred maintenance was unplanned. It has now been decided that an additional EUR 100 million will be made available for additional maintenance. This will take up matters that can be realized relatively quickly. A quick effect sounds nice, but doesn't reassure us. The Minister himself indicated that despite the volume, the delayed maintenance will continue to increase. Does the Minister now guarantee that security will not be compromised? Why does it prioritize resources for low-hanging fruit and not for safety? I'll just mention the bridge in Genoa and a bridge in Taiwan at the end of September. It can really happen! How are we going to do this when we know that Rijkswaterstaat is short on people to carry out the work. And what is the addition to the impulse she announced? Is it an option to use the under-spending from 2019-2020 for this supplement? It doesn't help that just before the summer the news came that builders aren't jumping around like this anymore to get involved with Rijkswaterstaat: there are fewer registrations, plans are often of moderate quality, budgets are tight, time planning is tight. Builders often think that these projects are too risky and that the risks are one-sided to the builder. Apparently, Rijkswaterstaat is not considered a reliable partner. The Minister responded with some general words and the announcement of a plan of approach. But this is a very serious matter. Delayed maintenance, delayed maintenance and less eager to go with Rijkswaterstaat. Isn't that a recipe for even more catching up? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The colleague also mentioned the ZEMBLA broadcast on dredging at Dreumel. In at least 60 Dutch natural lakes, at least 100 million cubic meters of contaminated soil and dredging have been deposited over the past ten years, not only at Dreumel. Enforcement and control are hardly taking place. The Dutch legislator apparently allows the dumping of slightly contaminated soil in former sandwin ponds. This is strictly prohibited in the rest of Europe. It's a hell of a scandal. How is this possible? How the hell is this? What is the role of Rijkswaterstaat? The Secretary of State's letter really doesn't reassure us. So, what are you gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to know from the Minister what's going on with the cybersecurity of vital waterworks. We're a few months away, so maybe the Minister can tell us a little bit more about this. In terms of safety, can I assume that despite the PAS problem, our water safety is guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. Last time we were very excited about the CO-negative road, the N211. In addition to lantern poles and solar panels, this is also a case of CO-neutral asphalt. Now I understand that Rijkswaterstaat acts as "what the farmer doesn't know, he doesn't eat." We're not going to see innovations not being embraced and CO-neutral asphalt not being used? Can it be explained why this has not been done so far? Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State explain what progress has been made in making stations accessible to disabled people and people with prams? I would also like to have a reaction to the ruling of the College of Human Rights. How is it looked at that Arriva disabled people in this case were the blinding discriminatory? Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the CBR. We still have mails coming in from people who had to wait or wait for many months, despite a timely request and a positive assessment. Those people are running into a wall and the frustrations are rising, as are the number of people who apply for compensation. But I can't tell from the Minister's letter how generous that remuneration is now. What's being paid for now? Does the so-called 'coulance' regulation actually enter into force on 1 December? Are we driving for a year? And have the systems been modified in time? In the First Chamber, the Minister has been promised to do her best for elderly people who have to drive abroad. They would be given priority in dealing with their situation, because the coulance regime does not apply across borders. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about that? How's that going? And once again, we want to say how absurd the current situation is, purely and simply because the government does not have its affairs in order. It's really unheard of. Mr. Chairman. Today there are reports in the newspaper about the leaked concept of air transport note... I had already mentioned this in an interruption to Mr Paternotte............................................................................................................................................................................................................ Were we now sent by this minister last week with a brat in the reeds? 50PLUS does not want to accept a chapter in the Aeronautical Note for an airport at sea by an unwilling minister. Now we really need to get through this, because the momentum is there. 50PLUS realizes that such research costs money, an estimated 45 million. But the investigation of an airport in the sea, along with the beautiful idea of the SGP about a tidal power station, cannot be disposed of. We find it appalling that this Minister does not see the strategic importance of this project. We will continue to argue for this. A lot of money is being spent, there is an investment fund and there is 300 billion in EU funding for projects. Why isn't the Minister going to work on that? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the point of air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u217	May I point out that you are already well into your second term? Then you realize that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u218	Yeah, I realize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u219	I don't know how much you have left, but I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u220	I'll just take one more point, Mr. Chairman. The Minister hosts the Climate Adaptation Action Summit in 2020. Maybe the minister can tell us what she's gonna do there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u221	Thank you. Finally, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u222	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I'm guessing we can just make it to 6.30 p.m., so that should go well. The road network cracks in its joints, even on a day when there are no tractors on the road. In order to alleviate the pressure on the road network, we need to work on paying for use and good public transport, especially outside the Randstad. We also need to work on inland waterway transport. When I talk about inland waterway transport, I think we can see that the desired modal shift is not getting off the ground. In particular, emission and noise requirements put pressure on the boiler. I believe that we must avoid the withdrawal of small inland waterway vessels. My question is very specific as to whether the Minister is speeding up the greening fund. What is she going to do to make sure that the noise requirements don't put the small ships out of business? Mr. Chairman. It is not the first time that the SGP has called for an increase in the flight tax. Some of these resources can be used to improve and reduce the cost of public transport. For example, invest in more transfer points from the car to the O.V. My question is very specific: when is there going to be a plan of action to deal with this? Mr. Chairman. Then there's one more of mine that I have to come back to anyway. My question to the Minister is about the salvage companies. When will the moment come when they will be allowed to secure themselves? Because waiting for road inspectors takes time and money, and I don't think that's necessary. Rijkswaterstaat can spend the money for road inspectors much better on other things, I think. Mr. Chairman. We are now in the autumn of 2019. All you have to do is step outside, and you'll already know it. We are still dealing with sky-high rates for tachograph cards. Already in 2014, far before my time, the Chamber has adopted an SGP motion that asked for price reductions, especially given the low rates abroad. Recently, the VVD and the SGP pushed that together again. Perhaps you can imagine that my patience is running out on this file a little bit. I can't see the Minister looking a little hard. That's good for me. In concrete terms, my question is where is the promised report? And above all, where is the price reduction? Like the Minister, the SGP is also deeply concerned about road safety. A lot of people have said this luckyly. It matters to all of us. The number of accidents and road accidents is still rising rather than falling. In that respect, I think we agree that all hands should be on deck. A few days ago, a critical report was published by SWOV on traffic enforcement on the highways. The police simply need to keep on the road more often and unsafe drivers. Maybe the CDA's proposal is really good. I wonder how the Minister will react to that. It seems very practical to me to deal with it that way. I think it's been a pilot somewhere at the beginning of the year. I'm curious about the results of that. As a result, I am very curious to see where the financial paragraph of the Road Safety Strategic Plan remains. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to rail safety. I think that's for the Secretary of State. In the context of the Landelijk Verbeteringsprogram Overzoek (National Improvement Programme) work is being carried out on rail safety. This program only looks at considering and not at ground level accesses to platforms. At a station like Bodegraven, where my policy officer comes from, where all trains stop, that's not such a problem, but at a station like Nunspeet, where I come from, that's a problem. That is where intercity's rage a number of times per hour, while students are pushing to cross that track to the platform on the other side. This week, a number of municipalities, including Nunspeet, sent a letter to the Secretary of State. My specific question is whether she would like to consult with these municipalities in order to see where work can be done. 'Cause now we're gonna lose something I don't think we need. Mr. Chairman. I have also heard the argument of the Christian Union and GroenLinks about one carless Sunday a year. I'd like a little bit more, but at least I think it's a very nice start. I would also like to call for a ban on freight traffic on all Sundays. That is what many European Member States are doing around us. If you see the card, it is only Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands where there is no ban. The rest of the countries around us have such a ban in a wide range. The same applies to Germany. I refer specifically to that country in order to convince Mr Paternotte, because I just heard that he wants to go after Germany for sustainable flying. So I suggest that we also go after Germany for sustainable life. He's nodding, so I'm counting on his support later. Oh, that's a little too fast? But I think we can talk about that. In any case, I have tabled this proposal. I would also like to include the package delivery, because we are often told that they make the neighbourhoods somewhat unsafe. I thought, then six days is enough; let it be that seventh day for once in those neighborhoods be quiet and safe. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. Mr. Chairman. Then the nitrogen. Today we see again many demonstrating farmers. That also makes sense, because by the accumulation of rules they are on the lips of the water. In this debate, I would like to draw particular attention to the innovative entrepreneurs in this sector. They are fully engaged in new emission reducing techniques. You'd say those agricultural entrepreneurs are getting carried away. But recently our group spoke to some of these entrepreneurs, and it was not as positive as we had hoped. They feel that they are sent from the cabinet to the wall, because measurements are not accepted and on every snail salt is placed. This isn't gonna get us anywhere. A number of years ago, a motion was tabled and adopted by the SGP together with the Christian Union which calls for that system to be lifted. But it's been muddling so far. In practice, little changes. I understand that the Secretary of State wants to have another report written, while the acute problem of nitrogen is really calling for action. I say, look at the way they're working in FoodValley with innovative technology to reduce fine dust. They really think with entrepreneurs and they also facilitate those measurements. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she wants to draw out a million dollars in order to copy that fine dust approach in FoodValley to ammonia and thereby also facilitate those measurements for nitrogen. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr. Chairman. Two more topics. The first of these is the PFAS, which has already been explicitly mentioned by the VVD. We notice that the building world is turned upside down due to zero tolerance for nitrogen, but for road and water construction this is equally true, but because of that zero tolerance for PFAS. In almost every shovel of land you turn around, there can be too much concentration and municipalities just don't know what to do with it right now. They therefore put projects in the refrigerator in advance. Companies in the earthmoving industry see their turnover at least halve if this gets worse. The Secretary of State is now engaged in research, but de facto means that we are maintaining zero tolerance during that investigation, and that is simply not workable for companies. My question to the Secretary of State is whether it is not possible to apply a higher standard for the time being, until there is clarity as to how we would like to deal with it definitively. Mr. Chairman. My last subject is asbestos. I am very pleased and I also think it is very good that the Secretary of State wants to focus on voluntary rehabilitation of asbestos roofs. The Court has repeatedly called for the provision of space for innovative methods of disposal, but the practice appears to be quite unwieldy, and I understand that. But there is now a TNO report in which, among other things, the use of foam in clean-up is very positive. My question is: when do the doors open for a method like this? Such innovations simply give a lot of money. It also saves time and, in my opinion, they also speed up this now fortunately voluntary reorganisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you. Mr Ziengs has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u224	I welcome the contribution of the SGP, even though I was concerned at the beginning. I thought he was gonna kill the whole transport sector in connection with Sunday rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u225	Oh, I thought you'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u226	At least he tried for a while. The parcel delivery guys are no longer allowed to work, but fortunately we find each other at PFAS. I'm very happy about that. In my contribution, I have gone a little further in a number of questions. Could we perhaps increase this together in the future of budgetary treatment? In other words, can we see if we can at least put it a little more firmly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u227	I am, of course, looking forward to the answer of the cabinet first. But if that's necessary after that, I'd love to hang out. So thank you for that question! As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u228	I'd like to get back to the track with Mr. Stoffer. He also indicated himself that the track is starting to get full and that we want to get more people out of the car and into the tracks. Control is forward-looking and I therefore wonder how he, even as an engineer of civil engineering, looks at that quickscan I just mentioned to really make a scale jump in the track. I am thinking, for example, of how, independently of the current network, you can connect the Dutch cities with the international hubs in Germany and Belgium with innovative trains such as the Maglev train. Does he see anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u229	That's a nice question, which I say yes to. Last week we had the debate here about Schiphol in the sea. The question is whether this will be the project of the future century, but perhaps this is the project of the future century in which we will find really beautiful innovative ways to transport us. But perhaps we can also find methods that we can export to other countries. I think it is good for our transport system and it is also good for people to get a sense of technology again. Maybe the knife even cuts on a third side. I think that's not possible, because you can only cut on two sides with a knife like this and it's also a very good export article. I am therefore very positive about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u230	That's good to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u231	It is a good thing that Mr Stoffer of the SGP is talking about tachograph cards, because that means that our truckers have to make costs that are much higher than abroad. I am also curious about the Minister's answers, so it is a good thing that you are bringing it up here. My question is about the strategic salvagers. You yourself know a lot about Rijkswaterstaat, because you have worked there in the past. I think those salvagers are doing a good job. How do you see it in the future to make sure they're on site sooner? Maybe more locations are an idea? How does the SGP view the deployment of those strategic salvagers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u232	I think it's very essential. I think we really need those salvagers. Hence my plea to give them a little more space, also in order to be able to do that security on their own. The first steps the Minister has taken for salvagers in a number of locations seem to me to be very good. But I have to say, we have to be extremely careful not to get all kinds of white spots right outside the Randstad. That's where I'll take care of it. This question must therefore be brought together to the cabinet. If the Minister gives us an answer that we do not quite like, we can put a little pressure on it in the second term. So here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u233	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office in this budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-9.u234	We will continue this budget debate tomorrow at 10.15 a.m. Then we will listen to both rulers.
