ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the presentation of the report by the Temporary Committee on the Development of Code of Conduct on Integrity (CXXXIV). I give the floor to the chairman of the temporary committee, Mrs Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Temporary Committee on the Code of Conduct of the First Chamber, I would like to present to you within one minute the committee report that we have produced on behalf of the Chamber. I would like to mention that the committee has come to this opinion with a great deal of consensus. That does not mean that there has been no discussion; on the contrary. But also in this respect, the eyes of all members were always focused on purpose and result. In fulfilling its task, the committee has tried to give hands and feet to the oath or promise we have all taken and which makes us a member of this Chamber. In doing so, the Committee took into account the specific circumstances and characteristics of the Chamber and its members. The code of conduct is therefore not an end in itself, but provides a protective effect on the reputation of the Senate and its members, as well as a basis for individual members whose names are at stake. Mr. Chairman. Finally, of course, I would like to thank the Chamber for its confidence, and in particular my fellow committee members for their enthusiastic efforts, which none of them could have brought to this result without the unspoken support of the Registry. And thank you personally, Mr President, for having been able to make my last contribution to this subject in plenary after 12 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Huijbregts, and thank you very much to the entire committee that contributed to this report, for the truly unspeakable, exemplary way in which that happened in the time frame that we had agreed with each other here in the Chamber. The temporary committee was set up by the Chamber on 19 February. That institution resulted from the motion for a resolution adopted unanimously by Mr Jorritsma-Lebbink and others. (CX, H). The Committee had been given the task of reporting to the Chamber no later than 19 April 2019 and today, on 16 April 2019. I really think that's an achievement worthy of applause.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-4.u4	The committee report and the corresponding draft code of conduct will be forwarded, as it is called in official language, to the College of Seniors and will be discussed there at the meeting on 23 April next, so next Tuesday. You will all receive a copy of the report and the corresponding draft code of conduct in your inbox. In the end, we will definitely talk about this again. However, I would like to mention all those who have been on that committee. Mrs. Huijbregts-Schiedon was the chairman. Mrs Nooren was the Vice-President. Mrs Baay-Timmerman and Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst were members of the committee, as were Mr Backer, Mr Ganzevoort, Niek Jan van Kesteren and Mr Köhler. Thank you all very much for the work you have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-4.u5	That's a good one, too. But, of course, we had already given an applause because the report was delivered in such a timely manner.
