ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Study Finance Act 2000 in connection with a change in the interest rate rate for the Higher Education Loan (35007). I would like to welcome the Minister of Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. We usually don't stumble over a wall, but over a loose sidewalk. As far as my group is concerned, this proposal is one of those steps. And it is loose: apart from the facts, regardless of the arguments, regardless of the support. If in two weeks more than 110,000 people sign a petition against this raise in interest rates, that means something. If the supporters of government parties call for senate groups to vote against the proposal, that means something. And if the Senate has so many substantive questions about such a simple proposal, that means something. In a previous debate with this minister, on reducing tuition fees for first-year students, the Chamber asked her explicitly and by way of motion to come forward with a good basis in future. 'Cause it was missing at the time. The Chamber agreed to this proposal because it was a sympathetic gesture towards students. And today we're dealing with the immediate subsequent bill that hits students, and once again, the foundation is weak. But the difference is that this proposal is not sympathetic, but students are dipping. Mr. Chairman. Our primary task is to test legislative proposals for their purpose, legitimacy, effect and feasibility, and not for what is sympathetic or not. So let me stick to that business side of the question. The feasibility is not the biggest problem, but the other three are, bearing in mind the Compatibility Act and the regulatory guidance, which lays down the criteria to be met by legislation. Starting with the target. The explanatory memorandum states that, in order to improve the financial sustainability of the system, the government agreement includes the measure to base interest on student loans under the study advance on the ten-year interest rate instead of the five-year interest rate. This reduces the average interest subsidy paid by the public authorities to students and improves the financial sustainability of the system. So there are three arguments. 1. It's in the coalition agreement. 2. The interest subsidy shall be reduced. 3. Financial sustainability will be improved. That sounds reasonable, you might say, but none of these three arguments are convincing, as I will explain. Argument 1. The fact that it is in the coalition agreement is not an argument. According to the designation of the regulations, mention of the coalition agreement is insufficient. I quote from these indications for the regulations to which each minister adheres. "In the main lines of the proposal you give the problem description and policy theory, the objectives and the necessity of the scheme. This section describes the whole set of assumptions and research findings on which the conclusion can be based that the proposed scheme solves the problem in question." And then literally: "The mere mention of the coalition agreement as a motivation is insufficient." So my question to the Minister is whether she acknowledges that the coalition agreement is not a relevant argument. Argument 2. The term "interest subsidy" is presented in this proposal as an unintentional and undesirable consequence of the current system of study funding. But this term 'interest subsidy' is used in a very strange way. Both in the Dutch and in the European policy languages, interest subsidies are always a conscious policy instrument to stimulate desirable developments, as far as we know. But most of all, the government sees it as a questionable financial effect. In the written questions on this subject, the government gave contradictory answers, depending on who asked the question. That's why it has to be made clear here. Does the Minister agree with us that interest subsidies were a conscious part of the study advance system? That is to say, thanks to this interest subsidy, we can keep students' student debt manageable for them. And if she agrees, why should it be phased out? Does the Minister agree, in short, that the reduction of interest subsidies can never be an end in itself, but at most a means of achieving anything else? Argument 3 to the targets. The financial "sustainability of the system" is then stated. But that word "system" is interesting enough than not referring to the study funding system, which it was actually about, but to the state treasury in 2060. After all, the financial sustainability of the study funding system is completely unrelated to this. Oh, I wish it had something to do with that. Because at a time when the funding of higher education as a whole is under pressure, look at the Van Rijn Committee and all the research around it is now very much needed to invest more money in that higher education. But now that even these additional returns do not return to education, the wording "sustainability of the system" is misleading. So my question to the Minister is: what is the bearing purpose under this bill? Why does she, as Minister of Education, put forward a proposal that has no educational purpose and that is also "not her favorite measure"? Or should it defend this proposal against its own conviction, because it is in the coalition agreement? If so, are we not back to the first point, namely that it is not sufficient ground? Even if the three objectives mentioned cannot pass the test of criticism, it is of course conceivable that the measure is still necessary, useful or even effective. We always like to think constructively with the Minister. Is it necessary, for example, to bacon the state treasury? Well, not in the short term and for the long term, there are many ways to raise some money. Can the Minister explain why the ex-students are being dealt with? The government makes a consistent distinction to students who will not be affected by the proposal next year, because they will not notice it until they are former students. She also says that this interest rate increase will have no effect on prospective students, because they mainly look at current interest rates. That is why I ask again: does the Minister think students are so shortsighted? Or is this another misguided reason, because the current interest rate, which they are looking at, is actually getting higher with this bill? Even if, in the long term, autonomous interest rate fluctuations have more impact than this adjustment sec, is this proposal not a problem, because it does something on top of perhaps already rising interest rates in the future? In other words, even if she's right, is the argument correct? In this context, how does the Minister assess the CDA's arguments in the House of Representatives, which believe that this increase in interest rates can help to reduce student borrowing? Is that indeed foreseen? Is it supposed to be? In that case there is therefore a behavioural effect to be expected, while the Minister says that there are no behavioural effects. If these behavioral effects occur, then the legislative proposal is no longer appropriate for the purpose of filling the state treasury. Because the less there is borrowing, the less revenue there are. So two and one. Whether the bill has implications for student borrowing behaviour, but also for the fear of borrowing and the financial returns the government expects. Or it has no consequences, but then the CDA supported it in the Lower House on the wrong grounds. That would be a shame for them. So please give an explanation from the Minister, including about possible other behavioural effects, for example that students are afraid of over-indebtedness to abandon administrative tasks, voluntary activities, internships, foreign experience and so on, thereby developing less widely and will experience more stress. Ultimately, the impact on accessibility is one of the key concerns of this law. The government is not concerned about this and does not consider that further investigation is necessary. Actually, that's kind of funny, kind of cynical. In the bill on reducing tuition fees, the government thought without research that it would have a positive effect. The questioning was only about so-called qualitative accessibility. A few more questions revealed that this concept had nothing to do with accessibility. With this proposal, accessibility will remain the same, the Minister thinks. But I think we know that for students from lower income groups, for stackers and students with a migration background, the influx is much more vulnerable. Well, it's kind of been investigated. And these groups also respond more strongly to financial incentives as in this bill. That is why I ask the Minister why she does not want to have this investigated. Why does it not take the existing research seriously and why does it take it for granted that, as far as anyone can expect, specific accessibility problems will indeed arise for precisely the most vulnerable groups of students? Finally, I would like to exchange views with the Minister on the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, Article 13. I quote: '... higher education must be made equally accessible to everyone on the basis of competence by means of all appropriate measures, in particular by the gradual introduction of free education. This is part of an appropriate system of scholarships." Certainly, that is not a due right, even since the optional protocol has not yet been accepted by the Netherlands, to our regret. But even if it is not a due right, this Chamber must review legislative proposals in accordance with international treaties. Is it true, as I am asking the Minister, that these treaties should at least take account of the spirit of the Treaty and that we should not move in the opposite direction? Is it true that, according to case law, an increase in costs is only acceptable if, for example, there is an improvement in the quality of education? Is this bill consistent with that? Can the Minister convince us that an increase in costs without any improvement in quality is in line with the requirements of this treaty signed by the Netherlands? In a Volkskrant article, the Minister says: on the basis of the Treaty, there is no direct obligation to invest the extra income in education. And in a way, she's right about that. But with that, she says in so many words that we are talking about additional income from the system. She has so far denied that in this Chamber. So we've come a step further. If these are indeed additional income from the system, how can they justify that additional income is not reinvested in education? This was one of the conditions for the introduction of this loan system. The income would be fully and directly used in education. On what basis does the Minister base her freedom to keep this extra income out of it? Doesn't she break another one of the government's promises? Mr. Chairman. It is a simple bill, with no other purpose than to raise money for such a long term that the margin of uncertainty is greater than the yield. The real question is why the Minister wants this so badly and where she wants to go with the system of study funding. Can the Minister share her vision with us? The introduction of the study advance a few years ago had clear objectives: to create more financial space for the quality of education by more differentiation, namely a grant for students from the lower income groups and a loan for the rest. Maintaining accessibility and investing in education were essential. Since then we have kept our finger on the wrist and unfortunately we see that the wrong button is turned. The concrete and specific accessibility problems of stackers and first generation students are not addressed. General money is given away to reduce tuition fees for the first year, including for students who do not need it. Higher tuition fees for second degrees are not being dealt with. The discussions on pre-investment are continuing. The funding of higher education is not being raised. And now this again. A general interest rate increase that does nothing to improve the student financing system and that places students with an average additional debt of over €5,000 a few years after the system was introduced. It is well known that CDA and Christian Union in particular have stressed the problem of debt. The Minister will therefore not please them with the increase and the consequences thereof, for example when buying a house later. Today we heard that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is about to launch a campaign to make debts more negotiable. You might want to lower your debts, too, I'll tell the minister. Mr. Chairman. While the system is set up with a long repayment period in order to keep the repayment manageable, this increase in interest rates makes it unattractive. This is a step-by-step approach to the principles of the study advance system. It is no wonder that support for the system is only crumbling further. That is why my question to the Minister is: how should we proceed with study funding? What ideas does it have for improving the system? How is it going to solve the problems that exist with the influx and funding of higher education? Does she recognise that the austerity of the system is a threat, not only to students, prospective students or former students, whatever category it wants to use, but also to the political and social support of the system itself? The Minister knows that the chances of my group supporting the proposal are minimal. However, we are all the more interested in the Minister's view of the education funding system in general and higher education. That is why we are very much looking forward to her answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes the cure is worse than the ailment. I was reminded of this saying in the proposal to increase the interest rate rate for loans in higher education. For the disease, namely the sustainability of government finances in the longer term, is the best means now to increase interest rates in higher education? This is the question that is at the heart of the debate today. We would like to discuss this with the Minister. If you want to answer this question, you can learn a lot from how in healthcare treatments are handled. There it is first awaited if it is not sure if the medicine, such as a medicine, is not worse than the disease and if side effects are expected. Should wait or wait Doing nothing is not enough, then we will look for alternative means in healthcare. If they are not there, everything is put in place to mitigate the side effects of an inevitable agent. This approach had been expected by the PvdA group of the Minister to justify the need to increase the interest rate measure for the loan in higher education. We wonder whether this medicine has been chosen with the care we know from healthcare. The answers to questions raised by this Chamber do not go beyond the fact that it is an agreement from the government agreement and that the government does not want to anticipate scenarios should the agreed change in the interest rate rate rate rate not occur unexpectedly. These answers do not convince my group of the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal we are discussing today. I would like to invite the Minister to change that during this debate. First of all, we are curious as to why the Minister considers the problem, namely the long-term sustainability of state finances, to be so urgent that action should now be taken. We would ask the Minister to take into account in her reply that we are living at a time when there is a massive budget surplus. Then we will talk about the chosen medicine and its possible side effects. From the government's written answers and the legal treatment so far, the picture emerges of a government that thinks it has chosen an excellent means, without side effects. What's that based on? The PvdA group, as well as other political groups, have repeatedly and in various ways asked to conduct targeted research into the potential effects of the bill on the tendency of young people to study, on the chance that they will finish their studies, on the assumption that after their studies they can build up a decent life and get a home and a mortgage, and, not least, on the influence of the bill on the well-being of young people who have to choose whether to study. The Minister has ignored all these requests and continues to claim, without proper justification, that the bill does not make higher education less accessible. We are dealing here with a legislative proposal based on the Minister's opinion and not on relevant and convincing research into its impact on the choice and well-being of young people and young adults. Mr. Chairman. In this case, it is not just a question of rational and objective consideration of young people and young adults in their choices on the basis of the intention to increase interest rates, as the Minister seems to think if we allow the written answers to us to work. Where the Minister recognises that perceptions play a role, additional information is provided as a means to prevent side effects. Has the government not learned anything from the recommendations of the WRR in the report Knowing is not yet a work; a realistic perspective on redundancy? Isn't that advice clear on the fact that people's ability to weigh information and make rational choices is limited? And that you're not there with education alone? The WRR advises the government to carry out research or experiments on the effects on people's capacity to act before the law is introduced. This is particularly relevant in this context because the WRR report shows that when there is stress and mental stress, such as among many young people and young adults, mental abilities are under pressure. In addition, in its response to the above-mentioned WRR report, the government has undertaken to assess the impact of all new legislative proposals on people's capacity to act. Why did the government abandon targeted research into the potential effects of the bill, so we would like to ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA group is seriously concerned about the possible side effects of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u6	Several studies show that students, young people and young adults are increasingly experiencing stress and burn-outs. We find that disturbing. Take, for example, the research of Motivaction, which gives the picture that 40% of the students borrowing regularly experience stress due to their student debt. In this study 40% also talk about emotional exhaustion and 39% are concerned about his financial situation. Research conducted by Nibud, NVVK and DUO shows that many students are red and that students and graduates are late in payment and/or in debt. Research carried out by the CBS shows that young people and young adults are uncertain about their jobs and unable to find a home after their studies on the costs of this bill. RIVM warns that mental pressure among young people and young adults continues to increase and that this pressure remains high after the study. All of these cases can lead to health problems, medication use, study delay, loss of work, etc. In short, unnecessary social costs and especially personal suffering for young people and young adults. Mr. Chairman. When you hear this, shouldn't all the alarm bells go off to the minister who says he's concerned about the well-being of young people? Then why don't you go back to your colleagues in the cabinet and say, "I'm sorry, I want to know what's really going on among young people and young adults before I offer a bill that can increase their stress even more?" None of this. It is downright disappointing that if we ask for further legal treatment to be suspended, first to get a grip on what is going on here and to take appropriate measures to improve the well-being of young people and young adults, the government writes: "Mentale pressure is caused by many factors. The government therefore considers that causes should be examined in conjunction and therefore implements the Özdil motion. The results of the ongoing RIVM study on mental pressure are the starting point for the specific implementation of this zero measurement. However, the duration of this zero measurement is so long that the government does not consider it desirable to suspend the examination of this bill." Just before the weekend we were able to take note of this research of the RIVM. I haven't seen a starting point when it comes to understanding what's going on among young people, what the causes of the stress are and what can be done to make sure they're in their skin, living and studying with pleasure. How does the Minister view the results of this investigation? Does it not now have the highest urgency to better control the mental pressures of students, young people and young adults and to take measures to combat social costs such as drop-out and delay, health complaints, job loss and the lifelong consequences of a burn-out, we ask the Minister once again. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to two other points on which we would like to receive a response from the Minister. In line with our contribution to the debate on reducing tuition fees, let me point out that the PvdA considers it important that all young people should be able to be sure that, if they so wish and can, they should be able to attend higher education. Higher education must be and remain accessible to all and the quality of this education must be guaranteed by the government. And if this is at stake, then the government must take action. Similarly, it was agreed at the time of the introduction of the study advance in higher education. This means that we must be extremely careful with measures that could jeopardise the accessibility of higher education. We expect the government to act to prevent this. Especially young adults coming from low-income and middle-income families have to deal with the effects of the bill we are discussing today, because they have to borrow to pay for their studies and provide their livelihoods. Special attention is needed for young people who have to decide whether to opt for an HBO study after MBO training and also for young people from families where borrowing is considered undesirable and who at the same time do not have enough money to pay for the study themselves. We ask the Minister if these groups are sufficiently visible. And what specific measures will the Minister take for these groups, in addition to general information? The CBS has indicated that havens with parents in the assistance since the introduction of the study advance are more likely to give up higher education. This requires action from the Minister, the PvdA Group believes. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that these havists, if they want and can do so, actually go to higher education? In the written replies, the Minister states that it is considering measures if increasing interest rates will lead to fewer young people studying. What reduction does the Minister take and what measures does she intend to take? Mr. Chairman. A second point concerns the fact that, in accordance with Article 6.3 of the Study Financing Act 2000, the Minister fixes an annual interest rate by December at the latest. The bill we are debating today makes it painfully clear that this will allow the government to change the interest rate rate every year and to any extent. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum shows that the current government is not only looking at the sustainability of the study funding system, but also at the sustainability of public finances in the broad sense. The PvdA Group considered this to be an undesirable situation and, as far as it was concerned, it was never intended to introduce the Higher Education Advances Act. It gives uncertainty to anyone who has to do with the study advance. The interest rate can be adjusted annually. The fact that the Minister says that interest rates will not be increased further in this government period does not reassure us enough. The fact that the government does not link the increase in interest rate rates to the resources needed to invest in the quality and accessibility of higher education puts the sustainability and political and social support for the study advance under pressure. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it is necessary to strengthen Article 6.3. The Minister's scope for setting the annual interest rate should be limited. The aim must be to keep interest rates as low as possible and to establish a direct relationship with the quality and accessibility of higher education. Does the Minister recognise the risk of the present bill for the support of the study advance? And if so, what will they do to change this? Is it prepared to strengthen Article 6.3 in the proposed way? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Better halfway than completely lost is a saying that forces itself if my group tries to make an assessment of the effects of the legislative proposal before us. During the examination of the bill on reducing tuition fees, we have already called on the government to pay attention to the well-being of young people and young adults. Unfortunately, the motion not to introduce the increase in interest rates did not make it at that time. He was widely supported by all parties, with the exception of the government parties and the SGP. So far, my group has not changed its mind. The medicine is worse than the ailment, is our preliminary conclusion and the expected side effects are extremely worrying. I wonder if the answers the Minister is going to give to the questions asked will change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. Mrs Gerkens has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, 'chairmen', perhaps I should say. Just four years after the introduction of the loan system, the then-made coalition of beneficents already collapses into two parties. One group wants to increase the interest rate rate and thus increase the cost of the loan. The other group wants to abolish the system. The SP maintains the course it has always pursued: this loan system is bad for access to education, increases division and reduces equal opportunities. The increase in interest rates, the funds of which go directly to the state treasury, is a bad idea for my group, and that is why we cannot support it. In this Chamber, which in its present composition meets only once, at least, we hope, because perhaps it is still... but well, that his other things have now fallen in the majority also the realization that the lending system is simply a good example of a bad plan and that today we could have talked better about "how farther" than "how farther now." Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Nooren said, it is better to turn halfway than to go completely astray, and so does the SP. My group therefore welcomes this change of direction. This is why we are discussing today the proposal to increase interest rates in order to raise EUR 226 million in income by 2060. The chance that you and I will be able to say to the Minister, through the President-in-Office of the Council, is very small, although not impossible, but that indicates how far that date is ahead of us. There is plenty of time to fill the gap that will then fall when we decide here today not to let the bill go through. My group would have preferred to speak today about how we are going to fix this error. In order to abolish the loan system, choices and solutions must be made. Given the reduced level of support, it would be good if the Minister looked at the alternatives to the loan system. Is she working on that yet? I'm considering a second-term motion. Mr. Chairman. The system is a bad system. It assumes that the student will have to invest in his future, because he or she will reap the benefits of it. This ignores the fact that these fruits are picked by society as a whole. It benefits from highly educated residents, especially in a knowledge-based economy such as ours. Moreover, the loan system is based on the premise that a high level of training also produces a high salary. That this is not the case for a large number of professions, the advocates do not tell. They also ignore the desirability of this. This gives graduates who go for the highest income and not the largest social contribution. Although one does not exclude the other, this does not necessarily go hand in hand. In doing so, this proposal will encourage individualism, which is very undesirable in my group's view. In addition, it increases the pressure on students to perform. As soon as you get out of high school, sometimes as young as 16 years old, you are more or less forced to borrow or work alongside your studies. The cost of living for students is high. A house is almost impossible to find. Debts amount to over €21,000, and this proposal will increase by another €5,000. But this minister says that the pressure the students feel is mainly due to social media. Yes, the social media certainly play a role in our lives, which requires further attention, but that does not mean that you should ignore the other factors, such as: require a side job, the problems of getting out financially and the fear of not getting a good job in order to pay off those debts? I would like to get a reflection from the Minister on her remarks that social media is the fault of students' stress. The Minister also points out that social payment conditions ensure that the loan does not burden itself as a burden. Here too, a false premise has been used, namely the premise that only high charges of a loan give pressure. But having that guilt has consequences. For example, it also affects the amount of the mortgage. It's not nothing, I tell the Minister, a debt of €21,000. Nor would it be wrong for the Minister to put this forward. Despite the fact that I have asked a number of times for a so-called financial package leaflet to be added, and despite Mr Bruins' motion, in which he asked for proper information, the information provided by DUO is really limited. Mr. Chairman. When I fill in the calculation of study funding I would like to study again with those conditions first there is talk about getting money. Of course, if I continue to go through that website, it will be the "borrowing" of money. Next, a redemption option of €60 per month is presented with a gross income of €3,200. According to that picture, I'm working on 19 years of redemption. The harsh reality is really different. Making €3,200 a month as a fresh graduate, that's pretty optimistic! I really can assume a lower salary and a maximum discharge period, 35 years. This is a small example, but it indicates that the information is not aimed at providing realistic and cautious information about the effects of the loan system. Mr. Chairman. This loan system was also intended to improve education. The money would be returned to the student. Three years after that, we regret to note that this promise has only been partially fulfilled. The Court concluded that for only EUR 280 million, it can be established with certainty that they have benefited from the improvement of education, much less than the promised 600. The increase in the interest rate rate ensures higher interest rates for students. How much higher is actually not exactly clear. The expectations are derived from the past. This means that a new insecure element has been added to the proposal. It is shocking that this proposal has been made four years after the loan system came into force. In that debate it was argued at the time that students can very well borrow from the government. It would be a reliable partner who could borrow at low interest rates. But with this step, the government shows that it is anything but a reliable partner. The five-year interest rate suddenly becomes ten-year interest. And how is that guaranteed? How hard is the 35-year discharge period? When, for example, is the proposal to reduce the amount to 30 years? Is this not the second step in the direction of a hard loan system, after the introduction of the loan system as the first step? This introduction was made to generate more money for education, which, as has been said, has only partially succeeded. I know that this was also important for parties such as GroenLinks and D66. GroenLinks has now counted its knots and has come to the conclusion that it did not work that way. I wonder what the D66 group thinks about this now. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, the proceeds of this bill do not go back to education, but they baked the state treasury. A study carried out by the ISO shows that this is contrary to the rules of the IVESCR Convention also signed by the Netherlands. The benefits of this measure are not for the benefit of education. While the introduction of the current loan system argued that the money would be returned, that money now flows to the state treasury. It is therefore contrary to this treaty. The Minister has not yet taken this aspect into account in replying to the written questions. I would ask her to go into this in detail now. The ISO has also announced legal steps, so I expect a sound answer from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. I see the doubt in this Chamber is great. I see a minority still supporting the loan system, and I see 27 youth organisations, as well as the young people of our own political parties, the Young Democrats, DWARS, ROOD, CDJA, SGP youth, JOVD and Perspectives calling on us not to support this law. They too consider this to be a good example of a bad plan. I ask the Minister why she thinks it is necessary to ignore their call. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Madam President. On 10 July 2018, there was a debate in this Chamber about reduced legal tuition fees. I did not participate in that debate, but the relevant bill was fully supported by the SGP Group. During that debate, a motion on the ten-year interest rate was tabled by Mrs Nooren of the Labour Party, whose main focus was on low incomes. Indeed, this motion was not supported by my group, as she herself has just said. I found that motion premature at the time because this was not part of the legislative proposal before us. Today, however, there is a law which specifically aims to change interest rate rates from five to ten years. In other words, now the ten-year interest rate is very topical, and my group has serious doubts about this bill. My first question is whether all the measures are not too unfocused. With the generic reduction in tuition fees and the increase in interest rates, do we not miss the specific concerns about the position of low incomes, but also the middle income? After all, those middle incomes have to feed themselves. Then this interest rate increase comes in extra hard. Madam President. In the Netherlands, efforts have been made to establish a social funding system. Apparently, an adjustment was needed, namely that of the reduced legal tuition fee. The main reason for this was to prevent students from studying because of all kinds of obstacles, especially loan anxiety, the high influx costs and so on. According to the figures, it is effective to overcome these kinds of obstacles. So you could say it seems like a successful action. And successes must be cherished and blossomed. But my group's fear is that this prosperity will be affected by the legislative proposal before us today: the change in the rate of interest for higher education. Fortunately, that is not going to apply to the current students. There is no retroactive or similar effect; the Minister has put it forcefully. But that's exactly what worries me. If a measure is defended, among other things by reporting that it will have no effect on current students, this implies in itself that it will deteriorate at least for future students from 2020. In other words, it is likely that borrowing money for study afterwards will be more expensive. This idea is reinforced by the fact that the Minister has identified two important objectives: 1. the sustainability of public finances and 2. the sustainability of the loan system. Can the Minister state that the intention is that those who are going to study should first be lured in by offering students the somewhat larger jacket of reduced tuition fees and then tighten the belt once these students have started working? Sure, a low interest rate is taken into account. Of course, there is absolutely no provision for the development of interest rates, but one thing seems clear to me: interest rates will not be reduced. This means that for many years there can be a substantially higher rate of interest for graduate students who receive work and have an income above minimum wage. If the government can't even assess how this is going to develop, how can a prospective student of 18 years of age make a responsible choice to enter into an obligation that cannot be estimated how it will work? In short, there is a contradiction that is bad for those involved. The loan system has been adapted with the aim of removing obstacles to study. The ex post account is then presented. Can the Minister explain this? Isn't this gonna turn out negative? Madam President, resuming. Students are confronted with the set of legal measures, such as the supplementary scholarship loan system, reduced tuition fees and increased interest rate rates. My final question is: has all this been added up now an efficient and effective way of achieving the desired objectives? Madam President, I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u11	I always appreciate Mr Schalk's analyses. He talked about the sustainability of government finances in general and the financing system in particular. I was wondering if maybe he could help me understand a little more. What is the sustainability of the study funding system? Did he find it? I didn't find it myself, but maybe he can help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u12	That is actually exactly the question I have just asked the Minister. I noted that the Minister's reply to written questions from this Chamber indicated that she had two objectives: the sustainability of public finances and the sustainability of the loan system. But it is not going to be worked out for the rest, which is why my question was whether the Minister could explain this perfectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you. Then we have the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u14	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the bill proposing a change in the interest rate rate rate for loans to students in higher education. The current law provides that students covered by the student financing system in higher education, in addition to the travel facility and any supplementary grant, may make use of the possibility to borrow on favourable terms for the cost of study and living. In itself, this is not changed by the legislative proposal. What does change is that the interest rate on student loans under the study advance is based on the ten-year interest rate instead of the five-year interest rate. This is in view of the financial sustainability of the system, says the Minister, and of public finances in the future. Questions have already been asked about that. I look forward to the Minister's reply to that. I can say that the CDA Group supports the importance of both issues, the sustainability of the system and of public finances. The bill did not give rise to comments from the Council of State. That's special. After all, that is not common. Mr. Chairman. Everyone can make use of the funding, and also of the travel facility and any additional scholarship if the parents are less able. In our view, the conditions for reimbursement are rightly referred to as'social reimbursement conditions'. The ten-year interest rate, as stated in the proposal, is lower than the interest rate if you borrowed out there. The payoff period is 35 years. The amount to be paid back is related to the income. Old students only have to pay back if their income allows it. Low-income groups will have lower monthly burden on the same student debt than middle-income groups and middle-income groups again lower than former students in higher-income groups. The increase in interest rates only affects the monthly expenses of former students who can bear this in view of their income. Former students owe up to 4% of the income above the minimum wage as redemption. This bill requires a former student to pay up to €12 per month, but this is only possible with an income of at least €60,000 per year, so if an income is far above average. If a former student can't pay the amount back, he doesn't have to pay it back either. As I said, former students only have to pay back if their income allows it. If this is not the case, the debt outstanding after 35 years will be cancelled. Mr. Chairman. This bill is the result of the loan system. As we know, the CDA was against the loan system. The loan system was designed to accommodate students somewhat by making universities and colleges invest in improving the quality of higher education. It is only recently that the first positive signals can be heard about the latter, but we still have to wait and see what it will bring. Mr. Chairman. In principle, the Eerste Kamer is based on the assumption that the Lower House determines the political course and that it is the role of the Eerste Kamer to examine matters such as feasibility, enforcement and legality. When it comes to the enforcement and feasibility of legislation, it is a simple law: it is enforceable and enforceable. When it comes to legality, it doesn't seem to be a problem either. But I would like to ask the Minister another question about this in the light of the discussions that have taken place in the media, among other things. As regards legality, questions have already been asked about how the bill relates to the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, IVESCR, which has also ratified the Netherlands. In particular, the question was how to read the bill in relation to Article 13. The Minister and some professors have clearly and clearly indicated that they expect that if a case were to be served in court, the judge would in all likelihood not consider the bill to be contrary to the UN Convention. This is due to the scope left by the Convention to individual Member States, the non-direct effect and previous judgments of judges in similar cases. The CDA is keen to note that good education is a great asset. We can be proud that our country is in the top ten in all international comparisons when it comes to education. It must be our ambition to keep it that way and to improve it wherever possible. It should be noted that, as has already been mentioned, a number of provisions for students have been phased out in recent years. The tuition fees have increased, although the tuition fees for the first year have recently been halved; that is a good thing, but this aside. The basic grant has expired and the loan system has replaced it. And now the interest rate is going up, as opposed to the Minister's previous commitments. If you read the proposal in the context of those developments that have taken place in recent years, the question may arise as to how far this legislative proposal moves or does not move away from the objective of Article 13 of the UN Convention. For this reason, members ask the Minister to give her views on the relationship between the bill and Article 13 of the UN Convention, including in the light of recent media publications, including the article in ScienceGuide, the Volkskrant last Monday and the ISO report. Mr. Chairman. The CDA, as has already been said, attaches great importance to the fact that good education is a great asset. Students we see as the future leading generation of our country. The CDA is therefore very concerned about the quality and accessibility of higher education. In the written rounds of questions, questions were asked about the impact of the bill on the accessibility of education, partly in response to the concerns of students. This is, of course, an important point, as has already been mentioned. At present, there appear to be no insurmountable obstacles to study, the Minister states. The Minister also states that this bill guarantees accessibility. The members of the minister would like to hear the reasons for this position, partly in the light of the concerns of the students and partly in the light of last week's RIVM report on mental pressure among students. Moreover, can Members assume that in future the Minister will also include the impact of this bill in the annual monitoring policy measures, and thus in the annual reporting? Finally, Mr President. Our group understands that the cabinet, in favour of a budgetary mandate, has come up with this bill. Members would like to hear what the Minister considers to be the financial impact on the education budget if this proposal were not to succeed. We are waiting for the debate to take place, and we will then adopt our final position. We look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u17	It's an interesting night. It is interesting to hear how the CDA embraced the ideas behind the loan system and showed what the positive thoughts at the time, at the time, were indeed playing. For those who have supported that, it is good to hear it back after a few years. It is also interesting to see that there is a discussion about the buttons that can be turned and that makes the loan system better or worse. The CDA has recently been very concerned about the debt problems of young people in particular. My question now is how this relates to the choice to increase the debt of young people by turning this button. What is the consistency of the CDA's vision on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u18	We were against the loan system, precisely for the reason that we were not in favour of students going into debt, unnecessary and perhaps more than you would wish. That's not gonna happen. Debt issues are a major problem, including among young people. If the basic grant has been replaced by the loan system, you have to look at the sustainability of this system. But we would not have chosen the loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u19	Honestly, I'm just looking for logic. On the one hand, Mrs Martens of the CDA, with all the explanations she has just given about the loan system, says: these are the good elements in it. Then she says: we are against increasing those debts. And then the CDA spokesman says: we support the proposal to increase these debts by €5,000. How does the spokesperson rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u20	We do not encourage that €5,000 extra; that of course remains a choice of the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u21	No, the student doesn't choose the interest rate; that's what the minister does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u22	The interest rate rate, yes, but the amount you borrow is either €5,000 or otherwise is a choice of the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u23	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u24	If these are the arguments that we need to reassure the grassroots and the students, I hope they will hear other stories. The CDA apparently chooses to support a measure which, according to the government itself, de facto average increases student debt by €5,000 or more. That is the implication of this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u25	We have said that we can understand that the cabinet will come up with such a proposal if there are budgetary targets. I do not know whether Mr Ganzevoort has heard my last sentence, namely that, depending on the debate, we will take our position? It remains to be seen that we are against debt-taking, especially against unnecessary debt-taking, and that we remain against the lending system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u26	I'd like to make a comment. If the CDA were against the loan system, it could have made sure that something else had come into the coalition agreement; that did not happen. So we have to deal with the lending system that is now in place. I come to my question to Mrs Martens. Something didn't quite make sense to me. At a stage where there is a budget surplus, the funds raised by these measures go not to education but to the long-term sustainability of state finances. Does Mrs Martens, who does not believe in a loan system, who does not like debt and who perhaps recognizes that young people sometimes do not make debts because they want to, but because otherwise they cannot study, consider it a smart measure to charge the system in which she does not believe even more with loans to students?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u27	That is precisely the reason for the last question, namely whether the Minister can indicate what the financial consequences would be if this bill were not to pass. Because then there may also be other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u28	That seems an easy question to answer, because in 2060 there will be 260 million less in the state finances. That's already in the answers. My question to you is whether you think it is sustainable to raise money for state finances in a system aimed at student funding, not for the study.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u29	Perhaps the question should be asked differently: if money is to be collected across society, what is the reason to think that it would not be justified to look at opportunities to raise money within the circle of students? Then we talk about €12 per month, but only with an income of €60,000 per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mrs. Nooren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u31	I think I was asked a question. I'll answer that. That is not fair, because this is about low incomes and middle incomes, which depend on this system. You yourself refer to an international treaty that says that everyone must have equal access to education. Why would you burden a group more heavily when you can also make another choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u32	That is precisely the reason for the question to the Minister about the relationship between accessibility and the international treaty. We await the Minister's answers in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u33	I hear Mrs Martens say a number of things between the lines. I want to make sure that I have understood the message she is sending correctly. I think we're all still a little uncomfortable with this bill. I can imagine that the CDA, which has been against the loan system from the outset, is also uncomfortable. Mrs Martens' final question to the Minister was to repeat what is so hugely important about this increase in interest rates. Do I understand that it is crucial for her to have a good answer to that, because otherwise the CDA has doubts as to whether the support of this law is sustainable? Can I interpret that like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u34	Yes, we ask the Minister what she thinks the impact on the Education budget would be if this bill did not pass and the answers to all our questions depend on our final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martens. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the 50PLUS Group, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions in the note on the report of 20 May. In view of the number of legislative proposals made over the last two weeks in relation to the size of my group, I am obliged to limit myself to a few remarks in this legislative proposal Amendment to the Study Finance Act 2000 in relation to the change in the interest rate for the higher education loan. The interest rate change is based on commitments made in the government agreement to improve the sustainability of public finances. The target group affected by this intention are our future students; young people who start with a significant debt after graduation, which also entails a limitation in the conclusion of a mortgage, which weighs heavily at a time of high house prices. The increasing flexibility of the labour market and the uncertainty about getting a permanent job create an additional barrier to the repayment of student debt for young people. Mr. Chairman. The RIVM's current report of 24 May 2019 on mental pressure among young people has now been completed and released. What my group is deeply concerned about is the results of the various studies on the mental pressures under which students stand. Over 60% of lending students experience stress regularly due to their student debt. The latest research by RIVM and the CBS also speaks of increasing psychological problems among young people. In addition, previous studies had shown that this pressure can lead to health complaints and medication use. Performance under heavy pressure will not promote study results, which will increase the likelihood of failure in the future. Much has changed since the introduction of the basic grant in 1986. This basic grant was replaced by a social loan scheme in the 2015-2016 academic year. In 2014, our group 50PLUS/Baay-Timmerman in the Lower House voted against converting the scholarship into a study loan; a study loan that has to be repaid, initially at favourable conditions and interest rates. To now, after a few years, raise the interest rate on student loans gives a wrong signal and can contribute to further increased mental pressure among students on increasing student debts. I quote columnist Raoul du Pré in De Volkskrant of 15 May. He writes under the heading Leen-rejection: "A system without social and political support is not a long life." I would like a response from the Minister to this quoted quote. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS considers the proposed increase in the interest rate on student loans for future students starting with a study from 1 January 2020 to be unacceptable, as this increase leads to an average increase in the total student debt of about €5,000. My group will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. In the case of the study advance, "in the future, join the 10-year interest rate" can be seen in the coalition agreement. The Minister has worked on this in this clear legislative proposal. The Council of State had no comments. Those who simply test for feasibility, enforcement and legality do not face many complex issues. The only point that my group sees as valid, enforceable and legitimate is the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. I'll get to that later. However, this legislative proposal does not go far enough, as the speakers before and certainly also after me, on the lending system, on accessibility, on student welfare and also on public finances. I have a number of comments and questions to the Minister on each of these points. I shall begin with the origin of this measure. In the media, some referred to my party and the CDA. Let me be clear: the Christian Union Group has never had warm feelings about the loan system. That is well known to my fellow spokesmen. We think that the loan system is too easy to place a burden on a young generation and radiates a philosophy that the best students, especially in one straight line, get the compulsory courses and thus obtain their diploma. But studying is more than return. It's formation. It's room for new paths. My group is therefore concerned about the impact of the loan system on accessibility and the impact on the pressure that students experience. That is why the election programmes of the Christian Union also read that we like to know about this system, and that there are also more critics; the number of people who want to abolish and trade in for the basic grant is increasing. That is precisely where the measure we are discussing today came around the corner. It is in this light that the Christian Union has advocated reducing the interest rate advantage on student loans. But in a country of coalitions, it is clear that you will not get your entire electoral programme implemented at once, even though Mrs Nooren thinks that this can sometimes be done by a party. The ratio behind the measure is to prevent the interest rate advantage from being such that people are encouraged to borrow to the maximum I certainly still think fair. Especially with the extremely low interest rates we know at this time, there is a perverse incentive to use the borrowed money for other things. The biennial Nibud study among students states that more than 25% of students borrow the maximum amount allowed, without first calculating whether that money is needed. In addition, it appears that many students do not know what interest rates apply and what deadlines apply to interest rates. 54% of students also used the interest-bearing loan they made for their studies to save. I like saving, but these are unwanted effects that no one in this Chamber will want. I expect a new student study from the Nibud in the course of the year, as well as findings on how to deal with the study advance. Will the Minister undertake to send the results, but above all the government's response, to the Senate? I hope, of course, if necessary, accompanied by policy proposals to inform students about these choices, so that they do not borrow as much as possible. What, I would ask the Minister, are the additional efforts in this respect in the light of this bill? However, the Minister made a different main argument in the written examination of this bill, namely the sustainability of public finances. Does the Minister consider that when the loan system was established sufficient or insufficient consideration has been given to the extent to which advance payments of studies would be made by the State as a lender, and what impact does it have on how long the interest rate is fixed? What has actually been the maximum difference between the five-year and ten-year interest rates? Does the Minister still consider it important that this measure should continue if, for example, it appears that the sustainability of public finances has already improved? I know that one of these days the Spring Note will appear. I'm very curious if the Minister can lift a tip of the veil in that light. Or is the Minister actually looking more fundamentally at the increasing size of the study advance and the affordability of long-term interest payments? Does the Minister have examples of countries where this has not been taken into account? Is there any insight among students who borrow maximum, which part of the loan is used for study and housing and which part is not necessarily consumed or otherwise used? I'd love to hear it. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) expressed its concern at the accessibility of higher education. We fear that students with less wealthy parents will take the leap less easily or on the scale of "safe" to more "ambitious" sit on the safe side. We continue to monitor closely whether the loan system has such effects. However, the measure that we are discussing today is reflected in the amount that graduates have to pay back, not on the level of debt itself, but on interest. In terms of psychology, I can imagine that the decision to study is a matter of reflection or how much a student should borrow and then what interest is being asked. The interest rate measure, I think, will not be at the forefront of the trade-off. At the same time, that is not entirely impossible. But what gives the Minister the confidence that this bill therefore has no effect on that decision to study or not to study, and how does the Minister keep that in mind in the coming years? Does she have plans for that? Mr. Chairman. As I said at the beginning, the Treaty side has been part of our preparation for my group, because earlier on the abolition of the first year of tuition, I referred to Article 13 (2) (c) of the IVESCR and the text that the Contracting Parties seek free higher education. I would like to thank the Minister for having subsequently sent an enlightening supplementary letter with a genuine clarification of how the Netherlands explained this passage over the years and in fact when accepting the Treaty. And then it turns out that I am convinced that this is about ensuring effective access for all students to higher education. And that is quite different from reading the treaty in the first place and the explanation you would give immediately. That's what the Minister really convinced me about. In this light, the Minister argued that this bill also falls within the interpretation of the Treaty article, provided that this accessibility does not decrease. Then, of course, there was discussion as to whether this treaty is relevant to the purpose of the proceeds of this bill. Frankly, I do not think that you can draw such conclusions from the text of the Treaty, that the text of the Treaty is binding on how these funds should be used. Anyway, I'm just a simple state law lawyer. I have read Professor Huisman in ScienceGuide on this point, but I am curious whether the Minister shares that view or has another vision. I would like to hear what the government thinks about this, also in relation to the objective of access to higher education, and also, of course, the freedom which the national legislator holds in implementing international conventions which do not entail a direct obligation. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The Christian Union Group has asked a number of questions that focus in particular on the accessibility of higher education and the possible impact of this bill on it. The Minister certainly feels that I am looking forward to her reply on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not lifelong learning, it's lifelong borrowing. Our young people have got the idea that debt-taking is a virtue that would be part of your overall development. You go to college and so you need to borrow, unless your parents want you and can sponsor you, otherwise you're just unlucky. The loan system is sold to us under the guise of "interest is negligible low, it costs you at most a Snickers per month in interest and what is the problem?" But those same legislators who made disclaimers mandatory with the text "Watch out, borrowing money costs money," let the new generation swim in an interest rate trap that can hinder them for decades in building an independent future. They may not be able to take out a mortgage to buy their own house, leaving them at the mercy of cottage milkers who charge more rent than our youngsters would otherwise lose their mortgage. The crucial question is whose fault all this is. Is it the fault of the young people who lend without having to weigh or know the consequences for the future? Or is it the fault of progressive parties who also like to call themselves "educational party" and have allowed themselves to become advocates of the debt economy? Parties such as D66, GroenLinks and PvdA, who have handed out our young people to loan sharks with open eyes, threatening the whole future of our future generations. Do we see the government as a loan shark, Mr. Chairman? No, certainly not, but it's like a lifeguard who lets our kids swim in a tub of loan sharks that they can't get out of in the first decades. Because those who are in debt and still want what they want will end up with loan sharks. My group's main objection to the loan system and this amendment is that the cabinet does not insist on the accessibility and quality of education, but on its affordability. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the building blocks of a society. It is about good education, not about a return system in which your contribution to the economy is central. The debate is therefore also about what the quality of education is. Access to education for everyone, space to develop yourself, space to discover where your talents lie, where your heart lies, make a wrong assessment and have the space to restore them. These are key values for a quality education system. Everyone in this country, regardless of their origins, should be able to study just because you have the brains for that. Its importance is invaluable. The ideal of equal opportunities for all instead of turning it around and sneaking down on the accessibility of education, initiated with the loan system that thanks to D66, PvdA and GroenLinks was able to count on a large majority in this house. And now the government wants to get on with it. The interest rate will rise, which means that a student has to pay an average of €5,000 extra debt. The revenues for the government are estimated at 226 million in 2060, but the government does not intend to invest these revenues in higher education. First of all, my group is very concerned about the pressure that this is putting on students. According to Motivation's research it's been cited a few times already........................................................................................................................................................... Over 60% of students regularly claim to experience stress due to a student debt. And 40% talk about emotional exhaustion. Other researchers and student psychologists also report a lot of stress, depression and other psychological problems among students. According to the Minister, this stress cannot be attributed to one factor: the student debt; it can be attributed to an accumulation of factors, such as the higher demands that students impose on themselves; competition between themselves and the influence of social media. But when we see all these investigations, how does the Minister point them? Doesn't she agree with us that at least the financial position is a component that contributes to that stress factor? I'd like a response. And does she agree with my group that more measures are needed to reduce this pressure? Mr. Chairman. This proposal further undermines the accessibility of education. Since the introduction of the loan system, the number of havists from a family of welfare workers passing to HBO has already fallen by 10%. As the basic scholarship disappeared, the poorer student has gone net worse. And after the introduction of the loan system, the average debt of Dutch people has risen considerably. In 2014, it was still at €14,000 and the average amount has risen to €21,000. It is expected that this increase will continue. The study debt limits the possibilities of taking out a mortgage while house prices are rising. Mr. Chairman. The bill also violates the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The Minister has not been able to convince us of anything else with her reflection and reaction to the Interurban Student Consultation. The introduction of this measure is not necessary in order to ensure the quality of education, as laid down in the Treaty as one of the conditions. The quality of education and students do not benefit from these increases in interest rates, because the proceeds disappear in general resources. This would make the proposal unlawful. I would ask the Minister to respond precisely on this point, because this point has not yet occurred in her reflection on the Treaty in relation to this change. It is a gotsp that GroenLinks, one of the causes of the antisocial loan system, has now started a petition to stop this law. For us that feels like the pinnacle of opportunism, but let us approach it positively: better in half than in complete error. In this sense, we welcome the fact that at last one of the perpetrators of this irresponsible legislation seems to be concerned about the victims. That should happen more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. President, if you are so challenged... I understand very well that the Party for Animals has to stand up for the shark... No, just not for the shark in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u42	No, I don't think so, the lone sharks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u43	In this case, not for the shark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u44	It's not about us, you know. We're sticking up for the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u45	We totally agree with that. Let me get this straight. Of course, I would like to give it to the Animal Party that she had a different opinion on the loan system. But that system eased the conditions for students in many ways. You may have a different opinion on that, but at least it did. Now we say: how does it work out and on which buttons do we turn? Are we now making it worse or better? We are in a very clear position on this point, because it is about accessibility. I think it is fine if the Animal Party has a different interpretation of the discussions of recent years, but for the record, the Green Left line is completely consistent as far as I am concerned. We're in favour of accessibility. We are in favour of supporting students from lower income groups and so on. For precisely those reasons, we are not turning this button of the interest rate increase, because it is counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u46	It's a wonderful speech. Unfortunately, the elections are just over. I think I have just argued that we are critical of the entire lending system. You make students dependent on that loan. This change builds on that loan system. I have tried to make that clear in an integral way. But better accessibility, as I have heard from Mr Ganzevoort, we can of course agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u47	In our opinion, this is not something that builds on the loan system. In our opinion, this undermines the loan system. That is precisely one of the reasons why it is not acceptable. But let us see above all where we stand with the proposal now before us. In my opinion, Mrs Teunissen and I are very close to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u48	That's right. We can indeed find each other on the undermining of the loan system. I think we're just agreed. I have just heard Mr Ganzevoort's speech very well, so that is one of the arguments you can put forward to be specific to this bill, namely that it is a threat to the loan system. But my group would like to see that, in our view, the antisocial lending system is also going to go away. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I wanted to say that if it's up to us, the antisocial loan system and the antisocial interest rate increase are off the table. I'm just gonna mention it. Finally, my group wonders what kind of problem this bill actually solves. The Minister has often said that the goal is the sustainability of the loan system and the state finances in a broad sense. Without this bill, they would become untenable. It has been mentioned by colleagues on many occasions: there is little explanation for this. In other words, how exactly does the government explain this term "financial sustainability"? That is my group's question. There is no threatening problem that needs to be solved. There is no financial crisis that needs to be averted. A more sustainable system is simply a cheaper system, it seems. And above all, a system that takes account of the financial sustainability of this entire loan system. But we haven't heard much about the quality of education from the Minister. So I'd like a reaction. Mr President, I will conclude. Important events cast their shadows forward. There is already speculation out loud about the "night of Duthler," but as far as we are concerned, every member of this house should feel free to no longer mortgage the future of our youth. Each member of this house could fill in your own name in the night of........................................................................................................................................................... It's always interest in the resident's eyes. And that's not the society we're looking for. We can stop the interest ghost that woke our students up. Let's do that. It's pretty much the last good deed you can do in the Chamber in this composition. Mr President, I look forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After nearly twelve years of membership of this Chamber, it is very special to me that I am about to end that period by talking about an education law. I'm looking up the kids on the ceiling for one last time in function. Education, and particularly good education accessible to all, is the basis of the future, our future, our children's future. That deserves careful attention. The bill is based on an agreement in the coalition agreement. I looked it up. The coalition agreement mentions the following as an introduction to the paragraph in which the measure is referred to. I quote: "Good education brings out the best in people, prevents and reduces backlogs and helps talents to develop optimally. Good education provides the basis for a healthy and successful society. We therefore continue to invest in further improving our education and research." I have always kept this quote in mind in the assessment and further examination of the legislative proposal. Because my group fully agrees with this contextual description of the measure. My group's concerns about this legislative proposal relate in particular to the effects on the accessibility of education and the Minister's further justification of the need for the legislative proposal. My group has the following seven questions. First of all, what problem should this bill solve? I've heard that before tonight. The Minister states that the aim of the legislative proposal is to improve the sustainability of public finances in the broad and long term. The proceeds are for the benefit of general resources and are not intended, at least not in advance, to improve the quality of education. The proceeds from the introduction of the loan system three years ago were at least intended to improve the quality of education itself. Why does the Minister think it is justified that the costs of studying should be raised again without the proceeds of such studies benefiting the education itself? The second question. How many students now make use of the opportunity to borrow on favourable terms for the cost of study and living? Has the Minister considered whether these students would have gone to college if there had not been such opportunities? Has the Minister carried out research into the extent to which the amount of the loan that students take affects the step to study or not? Can the Minister say anything about this? In the documents, the Minister often refers to the Policy Measures Monitor and talks about expectations and opinions, but my group is looking for more support, more research into the possible effects of raising interest rates on student loans on the accessibility of education. I'd like a response from the Minister. The third question. My group assumes that if students want to study and are really motivated, they will do so on the left or right. I cannot imagine that a five-year or ten-year interest rate is decisive for the decision to study or not to study. On the other hand, my group does not rule that out either. This bill increases the average loan of this group of students by €5,500, which they need to pay extra. How you turn it or turn it, it's a lot of money. How does the Minister view this? In its further reply, the Minister refers again to the Policy Measures Monitor. This shows that loanaversion as such is not a decisive reason not to go to study. The government believes, as it continues in its reply, that raising interest rates will not affect young people's decision to study or not to study. What does it base this opinion on? It motivates the view that the measure will only have an effect if graduates pay their student debt. I do not follow this reasoning. The fact that the student incurs a higher student debt is a fact that affects his decision whether or not to accept it? A student will not only look at the amount it costs him per month to pay off the debt, but also at the total amount. I'd like a response from the Minister. I come to my fourth question. The increase in the average loan is based on a 10-year interest rate of 2.55%. That is right, my group asks the Minister. In 2008 and 2009, ten-year interest rates were 4.01%, 8% in 1998 and 11% in 1992. Interest rates are historically very low at the moment. It cannot be imagined that it will remain so low for the next 35 years. Does the Minister share this idea and this expectation? An increase in the ten-year interest rate means an even higher student debt than the €5,500 extra. This one could just double. How does the Minister view this? Did she take this into account when she designed this bill? I come to my fifth point. Has the Minister taken into account the impact of the bill on the housing market? Students who enter the housing market with a higher student debt will be able to borrow less for a mortgage than students who have no or a lower student debt. That could be an obstacle to buying a house. How does the Minister view this? Did she take this into account? My sixth point. The profits of this bill will not be realised until 2060 according to the further reply. By 2030, it will yield EUR 50 million, EUR 226 million in 2060. This will take some time; it will be by the time the current generation of students will start to retire, in the long term. Is that really worth the uncertainty for large groups of students and the risks that students will refrain from studying? How does the Minister view this? My seventh point. The budget of OCW is EUR 42 billion. What does EUR 226 million on a budget of 42 billion contribute to the sustainability of public finances over 40 years? It is something, certainly, but if there is so much uncertainty about the effects of the bill, is such a long shot at the moment justified, especially now that the proceeds of adjusting interest rates on student loans from a five-year to a ten-year interest rate benefit general resources and are not earmarked for improving the quality of education? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. However, you will notice from my questions that my group is not yet convinced of the need for this bill, especially when the effects on access to education are unclear and the effects on the national treasury are not really going to take place for another 40 years. I look forward with more than average interest to the answers and the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The present draft law on the adjustment of interest rate rates for student loans is the result of a single rule in the government agreement and reflects a single building block in the whole of public finances in the long term, even very long term. This has not prevented this proposal from giving rise to a lengthy, critical discussion, even in this Chamber. Also in the D66 Group, and indeed elsewhere within the party, this part of the coalition agreement has given rise to mixed feelings from the very first moment. This policy adjustment, shortly after the reform of the system, raises accusations of unreliableness and unpredictability which the government should address, but whose severity depends on the planned policy effects themselves. That is what my contribution is focused on. First of all, the financial impact on graduates. Following the windfall of the cut-off in tuition fees, which the group would like to support at the time, the successors of the same student group now have a setback in the long run. This unmistakable financial effect is a concern, although it may not be the greatest concern of the members of the group. In the written reply, the government rightly pointed to the limits of time, 35 years old, and income seizure, 4% once 12%, which were made around the refund. The interest actually payable has been lower than ever predicted for a long time and would remain well below the level predicted at the time of the introduction of the loan system if the law were adopted. In addition to the loan, the scheme also provides for an increased additional scholarship, a confusing name by the way, because it is simply the only scholarship that often turns out to be surprisingly poorly known to parents of prospective students. The Minister should do something about that one more time. As a result of amended regulation, the transfer of the study debt to the mortgage area for contributors is more modest than previously foreseen, although the group certainly does not want to trivialise the problems for newcomers to the housing market. But that's another policy area. The projected loss of purchasing power for contributors is ultimately estimated at about 0.2%. This is certainly not negligible, but it can be incorporated into the income policy to be implemented between now and 2060. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the financial effects of this law are not the whole story. Behavioural effects can also be based on all kinds of fearful, not necessarily business assessments, as illustrated by the letter from Lizelot van den Berg from Rotterdam, which I received today through the Eindhovens Dagblad and which I will certainly answer seriously. However, her concerns about a future study debt are at the heart of the social loan system itself, much more so than the legislative proposal before us. That discussion is for a different moment than it is now. The concerns of the members of the D66 Group today focus on the possible effects of the interest rate increase on two matters dear to the group: the accessibility of higher education and the mental well-being of the student population. Leena version or fear of guilt can have a negative effect on both. The empirical evidence on both effects is limited, just because the system itself is only a short one. First of all, the accessibility effects: from the outset, the concern has been reflected in the system discussion. Fortunately, for the time being, they seem to be not so bad, except for a small but significant exception, namely the negative effects of loan anxiety on participation in children of welfare-dependent parents, as reported by the CBS; a group which deserves additional support in its efforts towards upward mobility. So that would be bad news. How does the Minister assess these CBS figures? Is it true that, precisely in the direction of this vulnerable group, there has been a significant negative income effect in the transition from the old to the new system, which the increased supplementary stock exchange has not been able to foresee? And if that is the case, would the Minister be prepared to examine the possibilities of correcting this imperfection as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group is therefore not yet satisfied with this aspect. More generally, the members of the Minister ask for a continuous, thorough research effort to identify and continue to identify the accessibility impact of the social loan system, including, in particular, the effects of the interest rate increase in the event of its introduction. In the final weighing up of our group, it will be important to consider whether the Minister intends to respond quickly if these research results are needed and not to shy away from desirable financial adjustments, for example by increasing the supplementary grant, in order to ensure accessibility. Mr. Chairman. Nor is the D66 group satisfied with the developments in the mental well-being of students. All too often there is news of increasing tension and stress in the student population and it cannot be ruled out that financial concerns play a role in this. The numbers around early burn-out are downright disturbing. Does the Minister share these concerns? Members welcome the recently published RIVM report on this subject and the subsequent promised welfare measurement, but already think that a follow-up will be inevitable. In this context, they call on the Minister to continue to pay particular attention to the possible welfare effects of study funding and in particular to the possible effects on the implementation of the present law. Is it satisfied that the latter effects will be negligible and, if so, on what basis does it rely? Shouldn't prior information on student debt effects be better and better? Are the provisions made at universities and colleges of higher education to guide students with psychological problems adequate in the view of the Minister? Can the Chamber be confident that it will receive an early response to the RIVM report, in the preparation of which student organisations will be involved? The fraction of D66 has a third concern. When the loan system was introduced, it was an important argument for those in favour of improving the quality of higher education. The students, I understand, have doubts about the extent to which that happens. That concern deserves to be removed, especially now that this bill is following the change in the system so quickly. Can the Minister reassure this Chamber on this point immediately with factual information? Is there a proper entrance for participation in the monitoring of progress? Would the Minister agree to continue to inform this Chamber on a regular basis? Mr. Chairman. Higher education is a source of prosperity for the Empire in general and for individual graduates in particular. It is certainly appropriate for both sides to make a financial contribution to this public good par excellence, precisely to ensure that no one is prevented by false arguments of participation and that participants can take advantage of the many opportunities offered by higher education under good and motivating conditions. The D66 Group looks forward to the Minister's further justification of the extent to which the legislative proposal before us is compatible with those two important ambitions. However, the group is not convinced of this at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposed amendment to the Study Financing Act, whereby the interest rate on student loans is based on the ten-year interest rate instead of the five-year interest rate, is intended to improve the sustainability of public finances. The initial starting point was not to improve public finances, but to improve the sustainability of the loan system. But that goal was changed to improve public finances shortly afterwards, to stress that even without this legislative amendment, the study funding system is sustainable. Mr. Chairman. We can now define this file as a headache file. The loan system was already very politically loaded and had to be dragged away in the Lower House in front of the gates of hell. The Minister initially suggested to the upcoming unlucky-generation students that the change in the law was an investment to improve the quality of education, but unfortunately none of that was done because the Minister threw the ambition to improve the quality of education and its funding over the fence of universities and colleges. Then there is the broken promise of the five-year interest rate which is being changed to the ten-year interest rate. It thus confirms that this legislative amendment is only a business cut over the backs of former students in particular with a student debt. The PVV Group considers that this legislative amendment does not even bring about an improvement in the sustainability of public finances. The sustainability of public finances is achieved by, for example, giving away hundreds of millions of educational funds to foreign students who are no longer traceable after their studies and often escape interest and reimbursement. Sustainable public finances are achieved by stopping funding large educational projects abroad, or by reducing bureaucracy in education, to mention just a few examples. The Minister suggests that this change in law costs former students with student debts at most a few tens a month and that the interest rate is now about 0%. But everyone knows very well that this is temporary, and that should not be an argument at all. The revenue generated by this measure is only EUR 226 million in structural terms, but this change in law does have significant financial and social consequences for former students in particular with a student debt. Tabo Stekelenburg, a student 5 VWO of the Barlaeus Gymnasium in Amsterdam, who sent us a letter, is concerned, and rightly so, not about his studies and the question whether he is going to study at all, but certainly about his future and whether he can make all the ends of his studies; not least. This measure does not improve the sustainability of the spending pattern of former students with a debt. The PVV Group therefore considers that this legislative amendment is completely out of line. The financial windfall for the government is in no way proportional to the financial consequences for former students with a student debt who want to build a future after their studies, I say to Mr Duthler. Young families generally have to work hard to meet all the fixed charges and taxes: heavy housing or mortgage charges, rising municipal charges, rising energy costs, rising healthcare costs, expensive childcare, and on top of that a study debt that may have to be paid for 35 years later. Old students with a student debt can borrow less for a home, and their often modal incomes hardly rise. The towering fixed charges, which continue to rise every year due to absurd climate measures and the cost of mass immigration, to name but a few examples, therefore, the high tax burden and the interest and repayment of a mortgage loan and a significant study debt are a major burden on the disposable income of these families. I ask the Minister: would it not be reasonable and fair for this group of former students to be eligible for a waiver of their student debt? This is because study debt is more than once an obstacle to obtaining a mortgage and because these debts, combined with constantly increasing fixed charges and taxes, have made the income of this group of citizens insufficient to cover all costs. I'd like a response. Students don't like the loan system either. There are doubts as to whether study will eventually start to pay, and one is concerned, rightly, about the study debt that will be built up. In politics, too, the acceptance of the loan system is becoming less and less apparent because of its financial consequences rather than being trivialised. A lifelong student debt from, for example, two partners, former students with a student debt, who want to start a family, will continue to run through their lives like a thread. It would, of course, be best if the loan system were to disappear, but for now the Minister would do well to maintain the old situation and the five-year interest rate for the time being. I would like to say to Mrs Maria Martens of the CDA that every ten pounds of burden relief for modal households is included. Moreover, after 15 years, the old scheme assesses whether the residual debt can be cancelled due to insufficient income. For modal households of former students with student debts, which are also faced with a significant increase in fixed charges and taxes annually, this would be a blessing. The government considers it important that student debts are included in the application for a mortgage loan. In doing so, the government assumes that mortgage intermediaries or lenders will, by definition, include the study debts in the assessment of a mortgage loan application, because they have a duty of care. There is nothing less true, because the PVV Group finds that study debts are not always reported intelligibly when applying for a mortgage loan, because they can be borrowed more in order to make that one suitable home possible, which is not possible at a lower loan amount. The advantage for the government as a result of this change of law does not therefore outweigh its impact in society. This amendment of the law allows families to face financial difficulties due to a lifelong study debt for a home, a study loan combined with annual increases in fixed charges and taxes. And the structural windfall for the government of 256 million certainly does not outweigh the financial and, above all, social consequences for the households of former students with a study debt. The ten-year interest rate is in practice counterproductive for Dutch former students in particular with a student debt. For this reason, the PVV Group is still in favour of maintaining the five-year interest period. Can the Minister also explain why she remains rigidly committed to this change of law, despite the decline in political support for the loan system due, among other things, to the social consequences for former students with a student debt? For the last argument, I would like to appeal to the social responsibility of all colleagues in this Chamber. It is significant that even GroenLinks has announced in the Lower House that they want to say goodbye to the loan system. If only this party did so with all the climate measures! Anyway, what's not can still come. So there is a good chance that in another coalition the loan system will disappear. Finally, Mr President. This change of law has major undesirable financial and social consequences for a large group of citizens, former students with a student debt. Implementation of this bill will also lead to major problems in the implementation by DUO. So the end doesn't justify the means at all. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I would like to offer all students the night of Duthler. They're entitled to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today concerns a change in the interest rate that students have to pay to the government on their student loans, which is now clear. My group thanks the Minister for the answers given during the written examination, and has a few more questions. Mr. Chairman. The basic grant was introduced in 1986. In 2014 it was decided to transform the basic grant into a study loan from September 2015. This was done by the cabinet of VVD and Party of Labour with the support of the then opposition parties D66 and GroenLinks and was continued by the subsequent cabinet of VVD, CDA, ChristianUnion and D66. Students who are covered by the student financing system in higher education may, in addition to the travel facility and any supplementary scholarship, make use of the possibility to borrow for the cost of study and living. They enjoy favourable conditions. For example, the study advance law limits the reimbursement burden to 4% of the wage above the statutory minimum wage rather than the 12% previously mentioned. This reduction in monthly expenses meant an improvement in graduates' spending space, which is also positively influenced by the low interest rates, the long payment period and the cancellation of any residual debt at the end of the write-off phase. This reduces both the risks and the monthly costs. That is what banks are looking at when assessing the creditworthiness of mortgage loans, for example, so that is important for students and former students, especially now that mortgage rules have become stricter and house prices have risen rapidly. Perhaps the Minister could comment on the expected effects of these measures on this point. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group has been able to check, the agreements made at the time of the study advance Act, including investment in education, amount to 1 billion, of which 620 million are structuralally, with a strong involvement of participation. In addition to and beyond the agreements of the Study Advantage Act, institutions have themselves committed hundreds of millions of pre-investments, even though these are pre-investments, let alone their effects, not always quantifyable, because quality has many instruments on the one hand, and institutions, fortunately, invested in quality from other means before and during this period. Those agreements and investments are important. My group would like to hear the Minister's view on the extent and manner in which this is being implemented. Mr. Chairman. The interest rate that students are now paying on their loan is based on the so-called five-year rate on government bonds, while in practice the duration of the loans is longer, i.e. up to 35 years. The repayment period is therefore much longer than the interest period. As a result, the taxpayer adds because the loans cost the government more interest than the student repays to the government, even if students have more than enough income. In order to fix this, the government agreement states that interest on student loans is brought closer to actual costs by basing them on the ten-year rate, in accordance with the CDA election programme and thus also with the government agreement. The ten-year rate is currently 0.5% higher than the five-year rate. The difference with student interest rates is much smaller because the five-year rate is set at 0% if negative, and that is the case at the moment. The ten-year interest rate is currently around 0.15% and is therefore well below the 2.5% that was taken into account in the calculations for the study advance bill in 2015. In that sense, therefore, a longer period of interest than ten years would be justifiable. How does the Minister see this? The ten-year rate will apply to students who start training in higher education on or after 1 January 2020. It does not affect current students and it does not affect future students during their studies but after graduation, provided that they have sufficient income. Moreover, should the ten-year rate increase in the future, the five-year rate will also rise depending on the economic situation, sometimes even faster than the ten-year rate, as shown in the graph below 2.1 in the note following the report. Fear of interest rate increases is therefore justified in general but not in relation to this legislative amendment. Does the Minister share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr Bruijn always has extensive analyses and they are usually correct, but still a small question. The fear of interest rate increases is generally relevant, but not in relation to this proposal. Does he mean to say that this proposal does not lead to an increase in interest rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u58	No. I said that the fear of rising interest rates in the future, that is, after this proposal is adopted, cannot be greater than the fear of rising interest rates without this bill, because when the ten-year rate rises, the five-year rate also rises. In the scenario that this bill is not passed, the probability that interest rates will rise is as high as in the scenario that this bill will be passed, after adoption of this bill, regardless of the bill itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u59	But this bill adds something to that, which is about 0.5% extra. If this is not the case, this bill will have no effect on the long-term paymentability of the system. This bill can only have an effect, can only generate money, if it raises interest rates for students. I don't understand what Mr Bruijn is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u60	That is true, but the fear of that 0.5% increase in the bill is certainly no longer justified after the adoption of this bill, because then it is a fact. I was talking about the fear of rising interest rates in the future. These future interest rates cannot exceed the interest rate on the five-year rate at the ten-year rate. At least, history shows that this is about 0.78% on average. So the fear of interest rate increases in the future following the adoption of this bill, apart from the bill itself, I'm still getting to that 0.5% leap is not justified by this bill. The risk does not increase or decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u61	Neither is the weather determined by it. But what this bill does do is that increase of 0.5%. That's exactly the $5,000 extra that needs to be paid. Mr Bruijn should not run away from that. That is exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u62	That is indeed another point. I'm not running away from that. I shall come back to that in detail. Mr. Chairman. As calculated in the note following the report, it comes to that, on page 17, the impact of this proposal on the purchasing power of graduates is in the order of magnitude of some promilles. It is €12 per month, added up €5,000 in 35 years, which does not increase the debt but what the additional interest charge is in 35 years. Mrs Duthler is asking for full sums. Well, with an income of €50,000 you earn €1.750,000 in 35 years and of that it is €5,000, if we want to speak in large amounts. With an income of €35,000 per year, we talk about 0.29% of purchasing power, or less than 3 promille. And that's the average interest rate in recent years at ten years. The current interest rate of 0.15% and an example income of €80,000 are not 3 promilles, but 0.8 promilles. Although this is a negligible effect in terms of purchasing power and, for example, creditworthiness, it is nevertheless an unexpected and annoying measure for students, such as balance-improving measures, which are generally for many or perhaps all concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u63	For that amount, which is €12 a month, I think the whole public transport system will be down tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u64	That's right. That's why I just said, of course, this is an annoying measure for students. Every promille of purchasing power you lose is annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u65	Who will be carried with them for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u66	That's right. For 35 years. That's right. Looking at this naked bill, I can well imagine the indignation of students and students. I understand their concern and their fear that they are the only ones who are being attacked and harmed. That is also the concern of Nienke Luijckx from Mavo-4 of Vathorst College, who wrote me a letter today. In addition, the students in the debate have also referred to other measures taken by this cabinet which may harm them. The students therefore ask our attention to the financial and economic effects of the integrated government policy on their situation after graduation, including this bill. They want the whole picture. It's not so much about the numbers, it's about the few promilles purchasing power. They are mainly concerned with the bigger questions "what about my future," "I get a job, a house," "what do I have to spend," "what opportunities can I give my children" and "what does this cabinet do at the bottom of the line?" They are right, because the primary purchasing power effects of this bill are only part of the story. In order to assess the real impact, the measure should not be taken out of context, but should be considered in the whole of the policy package of the government agreement, to which the Minister is quite right to refer. The loss of purchasing power resulting from this measure is accompanied by effects of other measures, including in the area of income tax. Those are communicating vessels. So what does that policy package look like? In the CPB transfer of the coalition agreement we see that the cabinet takes a number of balance-improving measures, including the present measure, the pain of which is shared among all the Dutch, although not all of them are as powerful as the students in higher education. The government doesn't eat that money or magic it away, but it gives it back. After all, the proceeds used the cabinet to invest very Keynesian investments and reduce burdens without increasing public debt, so that future generations would not be burdened with an even greater interest cost problem. The roof is repaired while the sun shines. For example, in education, including its quality, net increases of EUR 1.4 billion in 2021 and the policy package reduces the collective burden in the same year by a total of EUR 6.4 billion. Families, including former students, pay €5.2 billion less in taxes and premiums, which is paid out of the final improvement measures, including the current legislative amendment, which thus also maintains sustainability. Structurally, this policy package increases the purchasing power of all income groups, including workers, beneficiaries and pensioners, including former students in those groups. In the meantime, employment, balance, debt and sustainability improve, while according to the CBS earlier this month income and wealth inequality decline. That's good news, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u67	I almost have a point of order, because I feel that the election campaigns have started again. I cannot go back on this bill that is now before us and in everything that Mr Bruijn is arguing here. I would almost think that we should be yelling hallelujah about all the measures the VVD is going to take. I do not think that is the intention of Mr Bruijn's speech. I would like to ask him what he thinks about this bill now, because it seems as if all the parties in this Chamber say 'not such a good idea' and Mr Bruijn alone says: hallelujah, if we see all this together in a package, that is really fantastic; this is what I need. Then may I conclude that the only party that says that this bill needs to be made is the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u68	That will be evident from the votes. I don't know. I have heard a number of parties say that they are waiting for the Minister's answers. The same goes for my party. I also have a number of questions to ask. Depending on those answers, I will advise my group to vote for or against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u69	I was given the impression that Mr Bruijn thinks this is a very good measure, but I have misunderstood it. I understand from his answer now that Mr Bruijn says that he certainly still has doubts as to whether it would be wise for this bill to be passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u70	I have not yet put the words "very good" or "doubt" in my mouth. I am looking at how we look at what the cabinet is doing with this revenue, as many spokesmen have asked for me. Is that money gonna get eaten? Is it vaguely hidden somewhere in the sustainability of a system or budget? The students also ask to look at the whole picture of what this overall cabinet policy means. That's what I'm doing here. To be honest, I think it is our responsibility to look at that. I also intend to continue to do so, unless, of course, the President agrees with your order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u71	I don't feel like a proposal has been made, Mr. Bruijn. Mrs Gerkens made a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u72	Finally, I think that the Minister's reply has already started with Mr Bruijn. I would actually ask him to stick to the text of the bill and leave the questions that have been asked about why these finances are so settled to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u73	I'm going on anyway, because I think it's important to see what this bill is doing in its context and not just to look through the keyhole, micro-economically, at that one bill, because what you see then, we've already discussed. The improvement in purchasing power through these measures of the cabinet is the result of wage increases and policies, such as the adjustment of the labour cut and the general tax reduction, paid from among other things the proceeds of this bill; that seems to me to be very relevant. Already in 2019 and 2020 we see these purchasing power effects, as shown by the latest Central Economic Plan, that of March last year. The introduction of the first tax measures from the government agreement, in anticipation of the revenues of this bill, among other things, results in an increase in the purchasing power of Dutch households of 1.6% on balance in 2019. Every Dutchman contributes to this. The same applies to this bill, but not only to former students, who are generally among the most promising, most privileged and most earning group. The recklessness of purchasing power underlines the urgency of the policy package, including this measure. Mr. Chairman. It is not only the students who are asking for our attention; my group, too, is, on the basis of the criteria of legality and proportionality, the proceeds of this bill and what happens with it at least as important as the price paid for it. Then you can also weigh that proportionality. So I would like to ask the Minister to confirm the figures that show that students are progressing through this cabinet's policy package after graduation. Mr. Chairman. I will look into the question of the legality of this bill. Apart from the more general data already discussed, there are concerns among some, including in my group, about an uneven distribution of the net costs and revenues of this bill on the Dutch by this cabinet, and a possible disadvantage for former students. If we take a closer look at this distribution, it is striking that in the passing-through of the government agreement, the structural purchasing power increase resulting from the whole policy package for households is between 175% and 350% of the statutory minimum wage of €20,000, i.e. the group that will normally cover former students, is 0.9%. This is 50% higher than the 0.6% increase in purchasing power for households below 175% of the wml. Now this piece of de-levelling for the benefit of middle income is undoubtedly good for economic growth and therefore for purchasing power, including graduates. But in that light, the government has not considered linking interest rates to longer interest rates, such as the 15-year interest rate from the Christian Union electoral programme or a 35-year interest rate according to the maximum real maturity of the loans, my group asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u74	It will be an interesting answer, with a lot of economic predictions, it is not yet reality. But if we do it very simply: most of the students borrowing come from low and middle incomes. Mr Schalk pointed this out. Mr Ganzevoort pointed this out. Mrs Gerkens pointed that out. I pointed that out. We can say a lot about it, but you will have two groups of graduates: the young people from higher incomes, where parents can pay for the study themselves, and the young people from low and middle incomes. They're gonna pay for the cost of this bill, aren't they? So it's de-leveling, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u75	They are all improving, but the middle income, if you define it as the income above 175% of the statutory minimum wage, which is quite reasonable, I think it is income above 35,000 euros that are making more progress than the income underneath. I am therefore asking why the cabinet is creating this debilitating turn of events as a whole. I can imagine something that would stimulate the economy, for example, but I am interested with you in the question of why this is happening with, among other things, the proceeds of this loan system, which we were all so curious about. After all, working young people still pay for their students, hence the question. Moreover, the higher yield of, for example, fifteen years in accordance with the Christian Union or 35 years in accordance with reality would respond to the uncertainty of the legal yield raised by others. The estimated yield is a product of the probability of repayment on the one hand and the nominal yield on the other, which is dependent on the rate applied. If you raised that a little bit, you'd lower that uncertainty. Why does the Minister opt for the relatively short ten-year term? In the preliminary report, my group already asked a related question. In the reply, the government gave the reason not to choose a longer term that, in the event of fluctuating periods, the measure should be adjusted each time and the fact that the average duration would be set as a standard for each former student. My group understands that. These concerns could be met by choosing a standard fixed interest rate equal to the maximum maturity of the loan, without giving rise to the possibility of a penalty-free early repayment, as is not unusual for bank loans. I'd like a response from the Minister. Another thing that my group has noticed when considering this bill is that it is about former students who start the study after 1 January 2020. The current generation of students will therefore not be covered by this bill after graduation. They will thus benefit from the reduction of charges, while their costs will be passed on to other taxpayers, including their working peers. Does the Minister consider this to be legitimate? The intention in the government agreement was to include current students in the loan system under the ten-year interest rate, as documented in Section 2.3 of the explanatory memorandum. From the point of view of consistency of policies, justice and solidarity, criteria which my group frequently adheres to students would not be preferable to set the starting date earlier, I would ask the Minister. This is all the more so since the current rate of 0.15% is significantly lower than the 2.5% taken into account in the introduction of the study advance, as recalled earlier. I would also like to ask the Minister what is the situation with regard to the fear of borrowing which was feared at the time of the introduction of the study advance. We must, of course, be very vigilant about this. Fortunately, I have heard the Minister say this on several occasions. We should not have our lecture halls emptyed because it makes it financially more attractive for students not to study but to go right after high school and continue to work. We've been able to monitor that since 2015. The tuition fee for the first year has been halved during that period and the supplementary grant has been increased by €100 and is available for students with parents with a combined income of up to €50,000. DUO reports that the number of students with late payments has decreased. The number of students dealing with the bailiff has decreased by 16,000 since 2015. During that period, the amount of non-performing student loans fell by EUR 5 million. In the meantime, so much more students are reporting for higher education than previously estimated that financial problems arise in institutions, my group has heard. Can the Minister answer that? Is it prepared to see if there is anything to be done about this, for example on the forthcoming Spring Note? What is the Minister's assessment of the impact of the measures taken in recent years on student influx, including the flow of havists and the flow of MBO to HBO, as monitored in accordance with the Klaver motion? The CBS shows that children from welfare families opt less often for a follow-up study after havo or vwo. But my group has noted that important variables such as the average final figure or migration background have not been included in the CBS study. Therefore, that causal link to loan anxiety cannot be established. Reduction of the flow from mbo to hbo was already there before the introduction of the loan system and after that there seems to have been no additional decline mbo-hbo. Can the Minister confirm this? Also the MBO Council does not so much point to a slipping flow from MBO to HBO, but sees borrowing for investment in its own knowledge as more of a fundamental objection. The Policy Measures Monitor 2017-2018 appears to indicate that the flow of havists is almost at the level of prior to the introduction of the study advance. For my group, as much certainty as possible is very important about this. Can the Minister comment on this? Would the Minister also forward its response to the policy monitor on entry and transit to this Chamber? I'd like a commitment from the Minister. From statements by ResearchNed, which investigates the impact of the study advance, my group understands that it is very difficult to establish a causal link between the introduction of the study advance and the flow. According to these researchers, the choice of study depends on many aspects. The loan system is one of them. But an attractive labour market can also be a reason not to go on studying, but to go on, for example, on that labour market. The researchers conclude that students, if they really want to study, will not be prevented by the loan system. How does the Minister see this? Could the system also lead to a more conscious choice of study and higher study returns? Could the Minister include this in the monitoring? I'd like a commitment. All in all, my group does not yet see any convincing evidence that the lending system is blocking access to education. The few investigations so far, including the RIVM investigation, do not point in that direction. My group therefore sees no reason to reconsider the study advance and replace it with, for example, an academic tax suggested by some. This seems sympathetic but is a cigar from its own box, a cash slide in the opposite direction, which at the bottom does not lead to lower monthly costs for graduates, but rather to an increase in the collective burden, with negative effects on employment and purchasing power. This is detrimental to all the members of future generations, especially the weaker but also the graduates, as well as to the young people we see up there in the ceiling, I say in the direction of Mrs Duthler. But of course it is important to monitor this carefully. In her letter to the House of Representatives of 23 April 2019, the Minister announced that he would talk to Nibud to see how the purchasing power of students can be included in the purchasing power picture. My group would like to wholeheartedly support that intention. Perhaps the Minister can tell us what is going on here and would like to undertake to inform this Chamber of the outcome as well. In doing so, I join my esteemed coalition companion, the Christian Union. Finally, the question remains whether, on the basis of the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Minister considers that there is a treaty obligation to directly benefit education or students from the budgets released by this amendment. More specifically, our question is whether there is a direct obligation for the government to spend interest income on funds lent to education if and because those funds, on which interest is paid, are used by the student to pay for a study, while that study does not become cheaper or more expensive. If, however, the functioning of the Treaty were to be indirect effects of government policy, my group asked the Minister, should not indirect positive effects be taken into account in addition to indirect negative effects? This is quite apart from the fact that a sound national budget is necessary for continuing investment in education. Mr. Chairman. In summary. If my group sees it correctly, the carrying capacity remains unchanged and the monthly costs for students remain unchanged. This bill is about graduates from 2025, whose purchasing power will increase on balance through the whole of the measures in the government agreement, which my group wholeheartedly supports. It is important, among other things, for obtaining a private home. For now, graduates and students with incomes of up to €40,000 do not change anything. Taxpayers, including the working young and the low-skilled, will still pay most of the study costs of students in higher education. Can the Minister confirm this? Mr. Chairman. My group looks forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u76	I need some reflection from Mr Bruijn. He zooms very much into great macro-economic stories and such. But, for example, the Christian Union says it does not know very well in this debate when it comes to the Minister's arguments, but to see that it helps to reduce debt. That was, in any case, an argument that was mentioned in a nutshell. I also do not hear Mr Bruijn talking about the Minister's arguments as a reason for this law. He's got a big, broad macroeconomic story. Does this not suggest that the objectives of this law are clearly not sufficiently clear, because two of the main coalition parties who support it come before this law with a completely different purpose? Can he reflect on what it means that other purposes are being pursued to defend this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u77	I have heard the Minister consistently refer to the importance of the sustainability of the system, of the state budget in general. Among other things, reductions in charges are paid from the state budget. In addition, this cabinet makes other, substantial investments in the quality of education in the coming years. If you want to keep things sustainable, you not only need to reduce burdens and invest, but also invest somewhere. That pain is divided among all the Dutch. What one surrenders to purchasing power is less than what one ultimately gets back at the bottom of the line. So this seems to me to be a very good measure. It is also in line with the Minister's reference to the sustainability of the system within the meaning of the public budget; that is also a loan system, as you know, because we still have a large loan outstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u78	I did not ask Mr Bruijn to repeat what he had already said. I asked for a moment of reflection. That reflection could be about what two coalition parties say about the goal that the minister calls it. It does mention public finances in one sentence, but it does not go into any further detail. Mr Bruijn has a ten-minute long story on what public finances mean. How does he reflect that he apparently needs a different, much wider purpose than the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr. Ganzevoort already points out that the coalition members are also talking about public finances. I'm talking about that, too. So that's in line with each other. The Minister has also repeatedly referred to this in the context of this bill. Indeed, I am only going into that in more detail. Why do I do that? Because the students aren't so interested in that one picture. The students are interested in their future, in their net purchasing power below the line. We must take responsibility not only for an individual, naked legislative proposal, but for the whole range of measures of which it is part. A good knitting is characterized by the necessary presence of all parts. You can pull one thread out or zoom in on it, but then you don't see the bigger picture. So it's a good thing Mr. Ganzevoort asks that again. Indeed, I see a consistent line between the argument we have heard so far from the Minister in the House of Representatives and the speeches made by my coalition colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u80	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u81	I think the Minister is very grateful for your explanation, because Mr Bruijn understands perfectly what the bigger story is. We didn't hear that story from the minister, but maybe she'll back it up in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u82	That story is simply in the coalition agreement, under which the minister's signature is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u83	We have indeed listened for ten minutes to Mr Bruijn's speech on why this is necessary for the sustainability of public finances. I have also mentioned it in my speech: this is about yields that will emerge in 2060. I remember the cabinet saying that everyone was improving and that the energy bill wouldn't rise. So how sure is it that Mr Bruijn's image is going to take place in this way in 2060? Or does Mr Bruijn also see the possibility that things might be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u84	Indeed, I think that is a fair question from Mrs Gerkens. We can see that the government is already increasing purchasing power and is already reducing the burden, for example by adjusting the labour cut, leading to an increase in purchasing power for all Dutch people. In this year's estimate, we have seen in the Central Economic Plan of March that the increase in purchasing power for this year is already greater than estimated in the government agreement. So the question has to be rather: why does this cabinet already give away so much burden relief, in anticipation of income from, for example, this measure rather than waiting for it? So perhaps I could add to my speech the question to the Minister why, for example, the cabinet does not opt for more repayment of public debt, since it appears that we can increase purchasing power more in 2019 than was estimated in the coalition agreement. So I think your question is correct, but if we look at the figures, you have to worry about the opposite rather than the question of when the proceeds of this bill will come. The legislative proposal itself is not going to produce anything on the government's expenditure side for a long time to come, but it seems that it is already reducing the burden and investing in the quality of education in 2021, which my group, by the way, considers to be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mrs. Gerkens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr President, what a very long answer Mr Bruijn has given. I think he's just confirming what I asked him. Everything he says is said with such certainty, that it is necessary and that is why this measure is necessary, while we know that all the plans that are being devised, especially for 2060, are just drawing table ideas, made from Mr Bruijn's lego-bouw box, of which we certainly do not know whether it will go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u87	Indeed, it is very important that, as the cabinet invests in burden relief and in the quality of education, we also ensure that amounts from which this is paid, such as this bill, are also put on the table, and so we adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u88	Let's look at this bill, because in the First Chamber, it's now about the bill before us. Indeed, the cabinet has the choice of whether it will collect the money from graduates who have a loan or from companies who may be able to pay a profit tax. Or: do I have a budget surplus and, if so, what am I going to use it for? You look very much at the extensive burden picture, but you can also ask yourself if there could have been anything else in that coalition agreement. In this light, I have not yet seen any reflection on the possible effects of this bill on the well-being of young people and young adults, apart from the rationalities that exist. How does Mr Bruijn view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u89	You are not asking for a reflection from Mr Bruijn, because it will be late tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u90	No, sorry. For Mr Bruijn, do not count heavily the possible effects it can have on students, young people and young adults, who we know are very often burned out, with all the health problems and costs? Did he take that in his picture, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u91	That's a big deal for me. For this reason, in preparation for this debate, I visited the ISO and the LSVb for an entire evening and took note of the arguments. For this reason, I have devoted the largest and last part of my input to this subject and have referred to studies that are on the table to a causal link between borrowing and stress and reduced flow; I have also made a distinction between havo and mbo and between mbo and hbo. So I've been looking for arguments. My group believes that this is important. I also asked for a monitoring. Only, I didn't hear those arguments. I have not yet found any evidence that borrowing itself is hindering accessibility, but it may be that this is or is going to happen. As I said, we think that is very important, but you must be prepared to take a critical look at what is on the table of arguments. There is no evidence yet that borrowing leads to less inflow or flow into education. And we should not close our eyes to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u92	Doesn't that make sense to do good research before this bill is introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u93	If you look at this knitting, it is of course very difficult to pull a thread out. If you leave only the most promising, most profitable and highly educated group, which is also the most powerful, out of hand with the painful measures taken by the Cabinet to free up money to invest in burden relief and, among other things, education, measures that are spread across all the Dutch, then I say: no, my party is not for that. Nor can we start by calculating what the overall policy package of this cabinet would mean in a behavioral sense. That would be good in itself, but that's just unbelievable. So my answer is "no." More research has already been done on the impact of such measures than on many other measures, which we are often in favour of. So at some point, you're gonna have to do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. We will continue to deal tomorrow with the proposal for a change in the interest rate rate for the higher education loan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-27-eerstekamer-3.u95	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Minister of Justice and Security.
