ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I can't help but notice that there's only three minutes on the counter. I am very high up in this Parliament, but I fear that we are playing a little side-play this afternoon. The main stage is in Brussels. For the umpteenth time, we will have to wait and see what is ultimately conceived there. Today's brexit menu doesn't contain any attractive options. Well, there's a single bright spot. In London, a discussion started between Mrs May and Mr Corbyn. That's a big deal. Two years late, but still. It is a discussion on what the future relationship between the UK and Europe should look like. The red lines that always used to be there have become quite flets. That's good news. What seemed unspeakable, the customs union, to remain in the internal market, is now, as it seems, explicitly on the agenda. That's good news for the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State see it that way? It is also a good thing that the British Prime Minister has explicitly stated that, in the absence of an agreement with Labour, she will again submit different options to the House of Commons and respect their outcome. Since the House of Commons has repeatedly and by a large majority indicated that it is against a no deal, preferring an extension, the possibility of a no deal, certainly in the short term, seems to have been reduced. Is that how the Minister sees it? That opportunity has shrunk, provided that the EU naturally accepts the request for postponement. It is good in my group's view that the cabinet has indicated its willingness to do so. The question is, of course, for how long. From the annotated agenda, the cabinet seems to be open to a longer flextension, as Tusk said, I believe it was him. Is that right? The cabinet also writes that it is still looking for a convincing basis for this request for postponement with a view to a solution. Is the intention to continue the talks with Labour, for example, enough to grant that postponement or does the cabinet really expect more details from London? Now that the British are finally engaged constructively in their internal debate, it seems to my group that it would be good to give that process ample time. I would like to hear from the Minister how that perspective on a solution should look in his view and how concrete that should be. Finally, Madam President. The British Prime Minister has asked for a postponement until 30 June. That is far from ideal, because the British then have to participate in the European elections, when they are actually already at the exit. The Brexit will greatly influence the possible British elections to the European Parliament. The new Parliament is, I think, bringing in a great deal of polarization with a new British narrow section. How does the Minister see that? Does he share that concern? Could it have been any other way? Is participation in the elections in the event of a delay really the only option or would there have been anything else conceivable, such as observer status or leave the present Members of Parliament to remain on? I'm just asking. The Prime Minister indicated that the British should give guarantees of loyal cooperation as long as they are in the Union. Are those guarantees even to be given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	As you know, because you are always ahead of these debates, GroenLinks and the SP have always agreed that there should be a little calm and that there should be no separation of fights. We need to talk not only about the divorce, but also about the future relationship. In the current stalemate, too, we have repeatedly called for this to be done with Mrs Buitenweg, in order to see what might be the European Union's side in this attitude. How does GroenLinks feel about the Council's report that the negotiations from the remaining European countries are considered to be concluded? So whatever happens in Britain and whatever possible opening is given there, there is what is now lying there. That's not gonna go away anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	Your question must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Does GroenLinks think this is wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	As Mrs Leijten rightly points out, we have always said that you need two parties for a deal. So if one party says "we don't have a deal," you can say "we do have a deal, only you have to say yes or no," but that's not how the flag hangs. I do think it is important to distinguish between new discussions on the future relationship, of which both our groups have always said 'don't wait too long, do so from the start' and the discussion on the exit agreement as it stands. I have also read the outcome of the RAZ and it says that it relates only to the exit agreement as it stands and that there is mainly room for discussion about the future. That is exactly the conversation that is taking place in London between May and Corbyn. What does the future relationship look like? That should give you a good job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	It is not for nothing that three minutes of speaking time has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, that was because the Prime Minister had to leave in time, but he is already in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, no, Mrs. Leijten, just for a second. Just for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	But I was asked a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	I just want to say that the interruptions and the answers must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	Oh, the answers, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr President, that was because the Prime Minister had to leave at 3 p.m., but he is already in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	So? Do you want us to spend the whole day...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	No, but that was the background to the three minutes' speaking time and this planning. I would like to ask GroenLinks the following. If we delay the British to get out, but if one of the parts that they come up with is that there are still problems with that exit agreement, doesn't GroenLinks think that the European Union should say: yes, we can indeed look at that? Or should the European Union say: no, this dictation is there and you swallow it, even if the House of Commons has voted it out three times; we are not going to reopen it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr President, to put it very briefly in your mind, I think that support for the exit agreement will eventually have to be achieved by conducting a much broader and substantive dialogue on the future relationship. I think these things are connected, but I would like to look for room myself in the discussion about the future relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. You can do it, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	Yes, but you really forced me, Mr. Chairman. It didn't go very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	No, I saw that. Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. It's a strange situation. We are here as a parliament because of the fact that another parliament is divided to the point. This division has considerable consequences. It looks like the European Union is still stuck with the chaos in the United Kingdom for a while. That sounds unfriendly, but that's how it feels. As it now seems, this evening in Brussels the decision to grant Prime Minister May a further postponement will be taken. One of the consequences will be that the British will have to prepare for the elections to the European Parliament. One of the other consequences is that they can continue to talk about the European Union's policy. If that is the case, then the 50PLUS group has difficulty with that, especially given the threat we cannot take it any other way from the overbrexit of the conservatives, Jacob Rees-Mogg. He stated last week that, as far as he is concerned, the United Kingdom is going to sabotage decision-making in the EU. Yesterday he added that, as far as he is concerned, the new British Prime Minister does not have to abide by the agreements made by the current Prime Minister. One of his fellow party members, who also has a French name, made it even more colourful, if possible, with his remark that, if extended, the EU and the United Kingdom will win Troy's horse. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, unacceptable for parliamentarians from a democratic rule of law to express such views. Against this background and given the fact that there are also high-level political parties in the UK, the 50PLUS Group has no confidence that a solution acceptable to all parties can be agreed in the short term. In the eyes of our citizens, we, as European countries, are utterly unbelievable if we continue to agree to a new and short delay. In addition, this creates great uncertainty for business and citizens. Therefore, postponement until the end of this year or a little longer is perhaps the best way forward. Should an agreement be reached in the United Kingdom before then, then a proper departure can still be settled. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the delay must be subject to strict conditions in order to prevent questionable plans from being carried out by Rees-Mogg and his own. Yesterday evening's letter from President Tusk of the European Council and the leaked draft Council conclusions also addressed this issue. But agreements and good intentions are not enough as far as my group is concerned. Mr President, I will conclude. Can the Minister promise that the Netherlands will press tonight for a firm guarantee, black and white, from the British that they will comply during the extension with all the majority decisions that the Union will take? Is it possible to sidetrack them in the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	I can actually follow Mr Van Rooijen's and his group's thinking very well. Only, I would like to ask a question about the source he is referring to, namely Jacob Rees-Mogg and his own: the most radical Brexites of the Conservative Party, I say. He uses them in his argument to come to a certain choice. I would like to ask him: why do you listen so deeply to this kind of radical extremes in the debate, when we need to look for the reasonable middle that needs to come out? Why are you being guided by tweets of these radical types that only want one thing: disrupting and balancing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you for the support that we actually agree. I'm not so afraid of that gentleman over there, nor of the other gentleman. But if we are to make agreements at government level tonight, I would like to see it spoken in a reasonable manner in the English Parliament, just as we are discussing it here together, so that we can move forward. The French must also express their support tonight. They got a little brother killed by that mess over there, a lot more than I do. Then it doesn't help if that's a hair in the soup tonight. We shouldn't care about these people, but it's a fact. That is all I have to observe here with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	I think we're in agreement. I do hope that we can emphasise the sensible statements made by a number of people who are looking for a solution and that we are not always going to quote them all out of tweets or other provocative texts of people who only want one thing, namely to upset the balance. I also largely agree with Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	For the sake of clarity, we do not allow ourselves to be guided by these obstacles either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. In June 2016, a majority of the British voted for the Brexit. Dozens of talks, summits, extra summits and a first delay later today we are on the eve of another extra summit and possibly additional delay. Because the concrete deal that May made with the European Union is still not acceptable to anyone in the United Kingdom. The UK is therefore still part of the European Union. That doesn't come out of the sky almost three years after that. Combine making a remainer responsible for negotiating an exit with a parliament that only says yes to preventing a no deal and a stubborn Brussels front that aims to prevent repetition and you have the ingredients for delay, even more delay and possibly more delay. The problem, Mr President, is that we can find all kinds of things, but we actually have virtually nothing to say about it. These first two points are for the British and on the third point the Netherlands has surrendered to the European Union. That sounds like a great negotiating strategy for Dutch interest, but not really. Mr. Chairman. The feeling of déjà vu is hard to ignore. Think of the referendums on the EU Constitution and the Treaty of Lisbon, which were finally shoved down our throats. Think of the referendum on the EU association agreement with Ukraine, which came after all. And now the referendum on British departure from the Union, which is very much a question of whether the voice of the people will be heard. No one is waiting for a no deal, but what happens now must stop at some point. As far as PVV is concerned, it ends on 22 May, the day before the elections to the European Parliament begin. Deal or no deal. Let those responsible for this negotiation mess put aside their egos, feelings of revenge and other interests in order to arrive at a deal that has been supported, because the little bit of credibility that still exists that this process will really lead to an exit in this way is completely destroyed by allowing the United Kingdom to participate in the elections to the European Parliament. That's no more and no less than a trick to keep them in, to make them postpone. Mr. Chairman. Article 50 allows a Member State to retire. That shouldn't be a paper escape. It must not be a Hotel California or cult, but a real opportunity to leave the club, so that in the future, the Netherlands too will be able to break free from that European superstate by means of a nexit. Mr President, I will conclude with a few questions. What exactly are the options on the table? Is it true that a longer delay until the end of this year or March 2020 is likely? What conditions for postponement are discussed? What exactly is a possible condition if "constructive cooperation in EU decision-making"? What does that mean for the vote that Brussels expects from the British? Do they expect the United Kingdom to abstain from this? Will the conclusions also include an explicit reference to the possibility of repealing Article 50 and undoing the Brexit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr President, thank you. Brexit's just bad for everyone. That remains one of the few guarantees in this debate. As far as D66 is concerned, the British are always welcome in the European Union. So when they come to their senses, they are welcome as far as we are concerned. If they want to leave, we say: controlled and with a deal, so that civil rights and commercial interests are well protected. That's in a nutshell how D66 has been looking at this situation for months. Preventing no deal is, I think, the most important task. In my view, the Minister referred to this yesterday in so many words. And so generous and functional delay is important. Spacious, to take care of the time of reflection, the rest and the space that is needed. On the other hand, it must also be functional and not lead to an endless stay in the European Union without knowing where we stand. That's the balance they're looking for. I also say: let reasonable forces in the House of Commons, both in Labour and in the Conservatives and in the other parties, get a majority for something. That is very important. So make sure that that reasonable middle can take the responsibility to break the deadlock, which actually consists mainly of deadlines, drama and chaos. Mr. Chairman. What does that mean with regard to D66 for the preparation of the Netherlands? That is what this debate is about. This means that our Prime Minister will not sit in the camp of sharpeners and the deadline thinkers. There are indeed European leaders who want to be a little sharper in that competition. Mr Van Rooijen has just mentioned Mr Macron. We also had a debate on this last week. I don't think it's gonna lead to anything. Let the reasonable and binding forces now be joined together. We believe that this is the best approach. The proposal before the end of 2019, early 2020, which has now been put forward, seems to me to be a good one. The British themselves do not think that is desirable at all. They want to get started with an earlier departure as soon as possible, otherwise it is no longer Brexit. I therefore believe that the pressure does not have to come from the European Union at all, but rather from peace and space, but with the aim of taking a step. It must not be prayer without end, without direction. Mr. Chairman. I can also see the risks of a longer stay. I also read analyses of European experts who say: then the British are going to block everything, obstruct it and obstruct it. Honestly, I'm not so afraid of that. Moreover, it is not the case that we, as Europe, cannot do anything if that happens, because then there are all kinds of possibilities to put pressure on the British again. But I don't think we should go on that path at all. We should not think at all out of distrust and then take another step. No, let's just think, we're giving the British the room to find their way out. In the meantime, they will not only be obstructing them, because they need a lot of the European Union if they are to be able to get on with it themselves. I have already said about Jacob Rees-Mogg and his colleagues: you should listen to such radical and disruptive factors as little as possible. But does the Minister think about conditions that you might impose in the event of a certain delay? That's what I like to hear from him. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his letter on the latest state of play regarding the preparation of a possible no-deal scenario. I would like to hear from the cabinet, also orally in this debate, how the D66 motion adopted on civil rights and the drawing of civil rights... Yes, there's Mrs. Leijten! I'm starting to stutter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	But I still wanted to finish my sentence on civil rights. That idea of D66, supported by a large part of the Chamber, is to get the civil rights section out of a no deal to at least guarantee that piece. "Afronden" is blinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yeah, for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yeah, it's been there for half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	I will say in my own term that I think the whole Brexit and the way it is now is a misrepresentation of the political leaders. But now, on 9 May, the Heads of State or Government of the EU-27, the remaining countries, will be sitting somewhere in a historic town in Romania, making plans for the future of the European Union. It is not until the end of May that the people are allowed to express their views on this matter. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	That is a sketch of a situation as if a plan is being made secretly for the next five years and that the people are not allowed to express themselves until fourteen days later. Of course it's not like that. The European Heads of Government are simply working on their work in the Council and outline lines for the future. They do that all the time, so also at the end of it. But when there is an election result in the European Parliament which will give a different direction, that course will of course be led. The result of the democratic elections, the choice for the European Parliament, will always lead Europe's course, Mrs Leijten. That is where we really hold a democratic hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u37	I happened to be in Romania two weeks ago. There was a counter summit organised by the temporary President of Romania in relation to the European leaders' future summit, the European leaders who are arguing with the United Kingdom to the bone and pretend to know how to predict the future. But that is where it is thought that the future of Europe will be conjured up for a moment. That cannot be the case. Doesn't D66 think that we should either cancel this summit or that it should be a summit to analyse what happened to the Brexit, but that the Heads of Government should wait humbly for the people to vote during the European elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u38	There's been a counter-top, and that's where the SP went. There is also a future summit. If there's a future summit, D66 will go there. In this respect, I hope that we will find the balance between being against everything and 'to the future'. D66 is more focused on the future, the SP is more focused on "against." That's everyone's right. We think that is what I said just now: that the future needs to be shaped... Mrs. Leijten is laughing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u39	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u40	... but I'm just trying to make a serious political analysis here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u41	You started out so nicely, but that went a little bit wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u42	Yeah, all right. So I think we should not just say: we are against everything when it is conceived by a number of people in a European Council. No, we have the election on May 23rd. Then the people of Europe will choose a new European Parliament. That European Parliament will have the opportunity, on the basis of majorities, to support or stop all kinds of proposals. You must have confidence in that, because it is a democratic election. In addition, there is simply the work of governing bodies that are in this case the two other European institutions: the Commission, but also the Council, to plan for the future. I don't think you should stop thinking in the run-up to the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mrs Leijten feels called to respond anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u44	Actually, I just want to put it right...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u45	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u46	...that this counter-top might not have come across as a kind of parliamentary counterpart organised by the Romanian Presidency. I was allowed to represent the Dutch Parliament there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. That's just a point...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u48	Yeah, but then I'm sure of one thing: at least that would be in good hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yes, but why do you have to respond to something that has been said?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u50	By the way, the position of the Dutch Parliament was there that we were not in favour of a statement by the parliaments and not in favour of making plans for the future, because we want to look first at the results of the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u51	Chapeau!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. And thank you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u53	You're welcome. I'd say until next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u54	That's right. Until next time, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "In the meantime, you must abandon your ambition, and let go of your stubborn will to win, your preferences, just like your personal feuds. The deafening screams of madness must remain silent and ultimately the peace-giving truth must be conned. Let compassion come to it, so that both sides admit something to each other, something that is necessary for unity." With this statement from Erasmus, I finished my contribution two weeks ago. That statement was topical in Erasmus' time, was topical two weeks ago and is still topical today. Something of this spirit recognizes the Christian Union in the letter that Donald Tusk sent to the members of the European Council last night. Tusk asks to give the British the time they need and therefore advocates a flextension, a more flexible delay of up to a year. The Minister has already indicated that he is in favour of postponement if this brings a good solution to the problem. Would it indeed not be wise to grant this flexible delay, as Tusk proposes, also in view of the future relationship, and to avoid going from one short-term delay to the next deadline? Does the Minister agree with us? According to the Christian Union, such a flexible delay creates rest in British politics and only increases the chance of a result that is in the Dutch and, as far as we are concerned, in the European interest, because it is not a no-deal scenario. That is the only thing the House of Commons has agreed on: no no-deal. Would it not be right for the Dutch Parliament to state clearly that leaving the British without a deal is not an option for us? What does the Minister think about that? Then there is the problem of the European elections. If the British do not get out before 22 May, then they should be taking part in the European elections. That seems inevitable, but would it not be better in that case to exclude the British narrow section of the European Parliament from participating in these elections, in parallel with that flextension, so that the British will not have to go through that process again, with all possible polarisation and the chance of accidents that might result in this situation? Is that possible and how does the Minister feel about that? Finally, Mr President. I cannot leave the interview with Minister Hoekstra this week in the Financial Times unspoken. That is why I have the following question. Does the Minister agree with the statement by the Minister of Finance that the Netherlands is not going to participate in a euro area budget if it does not meet the conditions previously agreed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr President, thank you very much. Whichever one of us knows where it ends with the Brexit, he can say it. Is it gonna be a delay? Yeah, right. Is it gonna be a setup? That might be possible, but in recent weeks we have also seen a lot of posturing and all kinds of movements across the Channel. I never watch those shows, but I sometimes get the impression that it's some kind of drama that goes on and on, with a new episode every week, or maybe a comedy. If we don't watch out, it's gonna end up in a tragedy. Mr. Chairman. Let me stress from this point of view what lessons we should learn from the Brexit, namely that too far-reaching European integration and too far-reaching European interference in all internal affairs can and will alienate the people of the countries that are members of the EU. Many people experience a great distance to Brussels, as it is called. Let us take these concerns seriously. As far as integration is concerned, therefore, a step in the right direction is more than justified. Does the Minister recognise that the EU could use a little more self-reflection on this issue? I can't help but rub some salt in the wound with a few friendly political groups. It's a little incomprehensible in this light... What am I saying? In this light, it is really incomprehensible that the governments of CDA and VVD voted against the Van der Staaij bill yesterday in the First Chamber, which would require more than a simple majority approval of European treaties. It would have been an ideal solution just to secure the support. But, of course, on 23 May there will also be an answer from the electorate. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the Brexit negotiations are still at an impasse. There are at least seven or eight scenarios still conceivable, including a no-dealbrexit and the unilateral withdrawal of Article 50 by the United Kingdom. In the meantime, Prime Minister May has gone into consultation with opposition leader Corbyn, but it is very doubtful whether they will agree on the next steps together. Looks like there's gonna be a delay. Is that until June 30th? Or until the end of 2019? Or maybe even longer? The United Kingdom's cabinet wants convincing support with a view to finding a solution. My question to the Minister is: what if the United Kingdom is unable to justify its wishes sufficiently convincingly? I'd like a response. Delaying the Brexit has important implications for the EU. According to this cabinet, only an extension of Article 50 beyond 31 December 2020 will have an impact on the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Own Resources Decision. But that seems a little short on the bend. Negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework from 1 January 2021 are under way. My question to the Minister is: can the Minister clarify the United Kingdom's involvement in these negotiations now or in the near future? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman. The British were promised "take back control" if they voted for a Brexit. Three years later, it's out of control. The British Parliament does not manage to agree on anything, except for the fact that they do not want a no deal and do not want Theresa May's deal. So here we are again. Mr. Chairman. The damage is already there. S&P has calculated that the British have so far lost 77 billion euros to the forthcoming Brexit. 219 000 jobs have been lost. So I'll just say it very clearly to the parties here: the PVV and Forum; the PVV is always there, but Forum never thinks it's a good idea to do so here, in a smaller country that is even more intertwined with the European Union: who flirts with a nextit, pokert with the guarantees of the Dutch, with the jobs of the Dutch, with the prosperity of the Dutch. You're gonna have to stop doing that, because you promise people something you already know you can't make it happen. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands, in the view of the Labour Party, should plead for a postponement without further conditions if the British so request. I said that a few months ago. Why? The idea that we can have any positive influence on the end result in the British Parliament through an ingenious set of conditions with the 27 is not correct. It's not gonna work. The only thing it can do is to strengthen those who say that the process is so difficult because of the unreasonableness of Brussels. We shouldn't do that. We must keep our eye on the ball and the ball is in this case: the interests of British, Dutch and other European workers and residents. They are harmed by the whole Brexit process and they would be harmed much more if this leads to a no-dealbrexit. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared, or whether his cabinet is prepared, through the Prime Minister, to make an effort to grant such a delay without conditions. I see that domestic political arguments can, of course, play a role. That's how I give President Macron's ruling. But it is really not in the interest of the Netherlands to pretend here that we are forcing something with a clever condition. The British don't know. They need time. Give them time. That is in the interests of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to hear from the Minister whether, since the debate we held on the same subject on 28 March, there has been new progress in the area of citizens, British citizens and Dutch citizens. This is also in line with Mr Verhoeven's question on the motion adopted on the position of these citizens. And I would like to hear if he has taken more steps in preparing Dutch companies and employees. In our view, they are still not well prepared for the blow that can come if, due to an unfortunate coincidence of circumstances, it comes to a no-dealbrexit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten, who speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u61	Here we are again. Another debate on the Brexit deal of both the European Union and Prime Minister May, which has no support and which has now led to a stalemate. My prediction is that, if we look back on this process in a few years, on how the Brexit has flown, on how the negotiations have flown, then it will appear shamelessly on the jaws. It is a political misrepresentation, in which it seems that a country that has democratically decided not to belong to the European Union should not be allowed out. "Hotel California" I called it back in November. At that time I also predicted that this deal that had been made was a ruinous road and would not find support in the House of Commons. Is this what the European Union wants to be, a prison? The strategy of separating first and then negotiating on how to trade in the future has been dumber than stupid. And that was the commitment of the remaining countries: a forced negotiating strategy. And do you know why, Mr. Chairman? The strategy was: we punish them first, before they know what perspective they get. That was led by the French. For every summit we see President Macron saying that the British should not count on even more coulance. He literally said, sort of shrieked, that they shouldn't count on them getting out without tears. I wonder: how does the Minister feel about that now? And now we're back here; now we're standing here again for the future and the Brexit. And at last yesterday, our minister did what we've been asking him to do for a long time. He publicly argues for a summit, and that the Dutch position is: postponement. For rest, for review. Let the British make their plan. Do not harm the interests of civil rights, of peace on the island of Ireland. Why wasn't this possible before? Why did the Prime Minister say here on 14 March: I do not want the Netherlands to be the first country to break the line of the 27 remaining countries, that we are going to give them more space so that the pressure falls? Why was that possible now? Because we know that the EU-27 has also made strategic blunders. In this short debate, I have two requests to this Minister, regardless of how he looks back on them. The first is that if there is a delay and there is room for a British plan, hopefully a compromise that has support, then I think that the negotiated agreement on exit should also be opened up. How does the Minister view this? And if that stays on the table as a dictation, what delay do we grant? And what does the negotiator's position look like? As far as the SP is concerned, the position of the negotiator is not sacred. If there is to be room from the European Union, that must be possible, but on the condition that there is a concrete perspective from the United Kingdom. The second is the call to stop preparations for the informal summit in Sibiu on 9 May. In 2017, a new hashtag was created in Twitterland: "#Road2Sibiu." That was the agenda for the future of the European Union, and the leaders would then tap it off on 9 May and then listen to the people at the end of May. Now we've been so busy with the Brexit lately that that future is very unclear. As far as I am concerned, the Heads of Government are going to agree to wait humbly in Sibiu for the people to vote a few weeks later. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Leijten is now calling herself poor. She says: what the SP has been advocating for a long time is finally being done. She's right about that. Two weeks ago, we tabled a motion to make the same proposal. Then the Prime Minister came to the Chamber specifically to say that that was really impossible...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u64	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u65	... And two weeks later, as a Chamber, we just have a majority for that. So we can say that we are very sad that it should have been sooner. But you can also say that the Chamber has managed to get the government to listen to us and now realize that a longer delay may be functional. So you can also be very happy. So Mrs Leijten could also stand up and cheer, but she has to know that for herself. But my point is about that prison that Mrs Leijten was talking about. She even mentioned "Hotel California." It is true that the British themselves are actually the ones who say: let us stay in the inn a little longer because we do not yet know how to get out. It's not like we're holding them prisoner, is it? They're just keeping themselves prisoner, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u66	What I was wondering is why the minister didn't take up his position earlier, which he publicly took up yesterday. At that time, this Minister, but also the Prime Minister, indicated that we do not want to give room to the British and we must keep pressure on the kettle. This has created a political disarray, in which there was no room from the European Union to give room to the British Parliament to get out. And that is exactly why I ask: do you want this as a European Union? I already said in November of that exit agreement that it is a "Hotel California" construction with the backstop. That's not a solution if there's no perspective on a future relationship. As far as I am concerned, there should also be room for opening up that exit agreement if there is a forward-looking proposal from the United Kingdom. In doing so, the European Union will indicate that it is not a prison and may move along with the wishes of a country that wants to leave the European Union. That would be the European Union I feel at home with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u67	I welcome what Mrs Leijten is saying, but let us sometimes consider what we are achieving here in the Netherlands as a parliament. I am very glad that we have a minister here who made a very different statement than two weeks ago. Then it was all impossible. It wasn't a good idea. Then there would be no result because there was not enough pressure. Mrs Leijten, Mr Omtzigt, our group, Asscher, Van Ojik and Van Rooijen, all groups that have said: let us be more generous. And that is what is happening now, at the request of the House of Representatives. Let's be glad that we have influence and that we've got movement in it. Let us not keep putting out these gloomy texts about what we should have done before. We got something done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u68	You made that clear, Mr Verhoeven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u69	If we look back on this and tell future generations about this, then I think that Mr Verhoeven too, with shame on the jaws, will tell us what a delusion this has been, namely that three years after the result of an election, you must say to a population: you have chosen not to belong to the European Union, but all the political stranglehold on both sides of the pool has still not realised that. I really think that's Kafkaian.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr. Chairman. There is, of course, a certain brexit fatigue. We are all looking at the British Parliament and thinking: we are going to vote no again. And yet it's about something very important. Because if there is a very hard Brexit, we will have problems in the port of Rotterdam. Then we won't be able to import live animals. Then our Customs can collapse. Then our Dutch fishermen will not be able to fish in Scottish waters and there will be no herring available on the market. And companies can get into trouble à la minute because they can't export their stuff easily anymore. That is why it is very important that we avoid that hard Brexit. The CDA has three points on this and then a few brief questions. As far as the CDA is concerned, I would like to join with previous speakers in saying that there is room for delay. In this respect, we welcome the words of the Minister. However, we would like to know whether this room for postponement is now accompanied by all kinds of difficult provisions. We are getting reports that France would then want Britain to have no more European Commissioner. Is that right? Two. The CDA believes that lines with the UK should remain open. The UK remains a major trading partner. The UK is a border country of the Netherlands, although with a little bit of water in between, and for us just an important partner in all kinds of ways. How do we make that happen? Then there is the third point. Preparations for the no deal should continue. I have a few specific questions about that. The letter from the Minister of Justice and Security shows that the exchange of data with the UK is ending. This means that, for example, for the explanation of behaviour, we no longer get the data from the UK. Then the government says: yes, but then you can of course ask a British applicant whether he is applying for a vog not only here, but also in Britain, before he starts working in that kindergarten. May I point out to the government that in the case of the great scandal of The Hofnarretje, the one who had abused dozens of children there, who had not only done so in his home country, but had just in Germany a conviction that was missed? That is precisely why we exchange data: because someone with a nationality of a country where he does not live or come from may have abused somewhere else. It'll disappear from the radar. The same thing happened with Dr. Jansen Steur, who started working in Germany because the Netherlands and Germany didn't exchange data about doctors for a while. I'd like a repair for this. It just needs to be arranged in time. How are we gonna do that? We would also like an explanation of the benchmarks. And we would like, and then I will turn to a few small questions, that if there are any new formations in which 27 countries will be joined together, which will then be covered by the Transparency Directive, so that when there is a meeting, we will get the reports. I am already very committed to this with Mrs Leijten. It must not be the case that we will be getting covert reports again. Finally, Mr President. I agree with the D66 question on civil rights. I, too, am very pleased with the position taken by the Finance Minister in the Financial Times. I would like to hear that the Dutch Government is fully committed to this. And I'd like to hear how the RAZ lunch meeting went. Did you discuss Romania's paper, which you made confidentially available here? There were some weird things in there. Can we get a report on what was discussed there? That's okay, after all. And all the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. Is there an amended legal opinion, if Article 50 can now be withdrawn at once? Because two years ago, there was the advice that couldn't do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr President, thank you. Welcome to the Secretary of State. It is here, while Prime Minister Rutte is now making a lot of speeches in Brussels. Mr. Chairman. Brexit is a lose-lose situation. It's about reducing the damage as much as possible. We have already said that in the United Kingdom the parliament and also the cabinet are divided. There are not only differences between parties, but also within parties. Fortunately, there is good news now: the government party, the Conservatives, are going to table with Labour to see if they can find something that is supported by parliament. Perhaps that is a softer Brexit, so hopefully that will lead to something good, because until now there is no majority for anything in the British Parliament. Another good news is that over the past week we have been able to see that a no-deal is off the table. That's even legally anchored. So there's still a bit of progress. Madam President. Last time at the summit it was decided to postpone the British until 12 April, otherwise next Friday Brexit will be a fact. Prime Minister May has now requested an extension until 30 June. The European Council will meet at 6 p.m. this evening and will have to decide unanimously. That brings us to the key question: should the United Kingdom be delayed? And if so, for how long and under what conditions? The VVD supports the efforts of the Netherlands. Minister Blok wrote it to the Chamber: to avoid no-deal as much as possible, to avoid an orderly Brexit, to postpone it, to participate in the European elections, and to ensure that the British behave properly and not block all kinds of decisions in the European Union. My group supports this commitment by the cabinet. And finally. The commitment of the Netherlands is clear. I believe that there are also talks with like-minded countries today. But the question is: is there unanimity? What, for example, does a country already mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen, namely France, do? Is that the same way in the game? Well, that's important. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr Mulder now says he supports the cabinet line, with a natural surprise to me. I wonder when his group will realise that this is the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u75	I do not understand Mr Verhoeven's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr Verhoeven, what exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u77	That question isn't that complicated. You may not want to give the answer. I ask you when your group has come to the conclusion that this is the best way forward, namely the way for a longer delay to allow the British to come to their senses. Last week we had a debate in which you had quite a hard time, with some kind of concern that the British would never get out. Then you dropped the words "press" and "deadlines" several times. Now you seem to be of a different opinion. So I'm curious where this insight comes from. It's a very good insight, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u78	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u79	Yeah, but the question wasn't clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u80	It is now clear to Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u81	It's a very constant line, you know. You need to keep pressure on the British. They haven't really thought about what kind of Brexit they want in advance. You have to force them to make a choice. The pressure may have led to something, too. We now see that Labour and the Conservatives are sitting around together to make a party-crossing agreement. We also see that the British Parliament has now settled by law that no deal is off the table. So the pressure's good. For a long time there will be pressure for the hardcore Brexiteers. They're getting worried now. We've already heard the name of Jacob Rees-Mogg. That is the representative of North-East Summerset, if I may say so. He's got some convulsion now, because he sees the Brexit Softer turn and maybe leave the table. In this case, therefore, long delay is not a means of exerting pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr Mulder is referring to a long delay as a means of exerting pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u83	Yeah, in this case, it is, on the hardcore brexites. They see their Brexit falling apart. Actually, they've lost it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you for this clarification on the position of the VVD. The VVD now hopes that the British themselves will come to the understanding that they need to take action to achieve what they want. And we in the European Union no longer have to put the gun to the chest or the knife to the throat all the time. Those were Mr Mulder's texts last week. Doesn't all that have to happen anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u85	No, you have to do what's necessary right now. That pressure did work, though I'm not sure that's what it is. Labour and the conservatives are now at the table. Now you have to give them time to fix it. This is a very important subject. Mr Verhoeven pretends that something has changed. That's not true. You have to be smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u86	I have a comment on the same point. GroenLinks is one of the parties that are happy, like a number of others, now that the cabinet is more relaxed with postponement. Still, I'm not quite sure. Mr Mulder says that we fully support the government's efforts. The cabinet continues to say that it is important for the UK to come up with convincing support for a solution. So, delay is okay, but there's got to be a backup. Mr Mulder says that he understands exactly what the cabinet wants and that he supports it. I'd like to support the cabinet, but I still don't understand exactly what's written here. What's that supposed to look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u87	I read it as: you need to give Labour and the Conservatives the room to see what they can come up with. The question then is how clear that can be. That's a very good question. I said, and I think you too, that the British are only now having the debate they should have had three years ago before the referendum. You need to give them that space now. I think I said at the BBC: you're actually so pathetic with this mess in your parliament that we should postpone anyway. That's about the line I'd like to put out. Of course there must be as much clarity as possible, but we all see how difficult it is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u88	That convincing justification with a view to a solution, as stated in the annotated agenda, is therefore actually that Mrs May is saying tonight: I will remain in conversation with Corbyn for a while. Can Mr Mulder confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u89	We'll be hearing from the minister soon. When I think about it, how much clarity can you ask? We have all seen what a mess it is in the British Parliament. We have all seen that there is division within parties. We've seen that the government is divided. Every week, someone gets on it. So you're gonna have to give the British time now. There will be another deadline, because of course this is not for an indefinite period. The question is, how long will there be a delay? Is that until December or until March? Again, there is a certain amount of pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u90	I must say that I find it quite a lot to call a population or the representative of a population pathetic. We've done the reconstruction here a lot of times. Is it the British or the European Union's negotiating strategy? As far as I'm concerned, both have to add water to the wine. But if a Dutch parliamentarians starts to speak to the British people that they are a bit pathetic with their House of Commons! At least I won't take that in my mouth. My question to Mr Mulder is as follows. At the moment when we see that postponement can be granted but that there are five demands from negotiator Barnier about what that should look like, does he think that is the right form?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u91	First, I want to be more nuanced about the British Parliament. There are a lot of reasonable forces in that British Parliament. Mr Asscher, Mr Omtzigt and I have also spoken recently. I don't have to name names, but there are names. And now, fortunately, they are threatening to win. But the point is that a number of British politicians have pretended to be able to leave a European Union while preserving all the benefits, and that all the disadvantages just disappear. And that's what's avenging now. And then Mrs Leijten's question: what do I think of those five conditions? She had such a long introduction that I only responded to it for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u92	We have read in the report that we received this morning that Mr Barnier has put five demands on the table when it comes to possible postponement. Does Mr Mulder find it useful that there are already five demands on the table before you say: we are creating space? Does he think it's useful that you've boarded up the postponement of your own side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u93	One condition is to participate in the European elections, according to the Treaty. I also think it is important to maintain the divorce agreement. Mrs Leijten distanced herself from that, but the first issue is the rights of citizens, i.e. of people from the United Kingdom who live in the EU and vice versa. That seems important to me, and I think the Irish border is important. So these are not just conditions; these are very fundamental conditions that affect people directly. So when Mrs Leijten says 'it's unwavering', I say: pay attention, it's about people's interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u94	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u95	Those interests were precisely played out by not speaking at the same time about the divorce in the future. Because these interests are so important, there is now a withdrawal agreement with matters that we, as a parliament, if we were to be presented with, really do not say: we can agree to. If there is an agreement between Labour and May, which I really hope will be reached, which will no longer require those conditions laid down in that exit agreement, then surely it is only logical that the exit agreement can be broken. How does Mr Mulder see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u96	No, you shouldn't break that exit agreement, because there are all those conditions in there that are important. It is what Mr Van Ojik said: if you let go of the red lines, for example on the Customs Union, then you can solve those problems more easily from the divorce agreement, for example on Ireland. 'Cause then you'll have almost no problem with Ireland. Mrs Leijten says all the time: the EU is unwavering. That's not the point. No, the point is that the United Kingdom has pretended to have only benefits and no disadvantages. Then it drew all kinds of red lines, making this the only possibility. So let us not pretend that the European Union is rigid here; it is the United Kingdom, with those red lines, pretending to be able to get out, while retaining benefits and without the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u97	I think that we should stop saying: we are now demanding clarity from the British. There's not going to be one; we all know that. It's also unreasonable to ask. So let's at least give our cabinet the room to play a bridge builder's role and get the delay. Is there a scenario for the VVD where today's outcome is that there will be a hard Brexit the day after tomorrow, which is better than just pleading for postponement? Is it even in the Dutch interest conceivable that we are now going to say: "No, we don't think it convincing, that future story. Get the fuck out of here." That's not rational, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u98	I think we're in agreement. The Dutch position also starts in this way: we do not want a no-dealbrexit; we want an orderly Brexit. Well, that's exactly this. We have an interest in delay. So we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u99	But then we also agree that it is very persuasive to say "they must be clear" a little to prevent loss of face; it doesn't make any sense. We know that there is no clarity; otherwise we would have heard. The British want to delay now; give it to them. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u100	But I think I have just said how difficult it is to say exactly what clarity is. I've outlined how difficult it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u101	That's tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u102	No, Mr. Asscher. Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u103	I do not dare to tick a pen exactly when Mrs May is quite clear. The situation there is just difficult and they need time; I think that is the main message.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u104	But in my opinion, the Dutch position should be against Macron: "Talk to your yellow shirts, but give the British a delay." It is in our Dutch interest that this no-dealbrexit does not exist. The British need time; let us please help them to stay as close as possible, rather than come up with conditions again. Those terms are fake, so we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u105	I believe that this is also the Dutch position. My final question is: how does France view this? That is, of course, with the suggestion that hopefully the French think the same way. So that's not for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u106	Does Mr Mulder think that this generous postponement should be subject to conditions and should be discussed with regard to the Netherlands this evening, regardless of the French wishes or demands? For example, are you giving up Commission membership, what Macron seems to suggest? Do you think, for example, that the United Kingdom should be loyal to majority decisions, and not be able to become a hindrance, and that it should also stand back from the multiannual budget? After all, they go out in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u107	Isn't that what Prime Minister May hinted at in her letter? She uses the word, I say it in English, sincere, about how she would behave. So she wouldn't be using budget negotiations or anything else as leverage in the Brexit negotiations. I wouldn't want that. You'd have to make arrangements about that; some sort of gentleman's agreement. It's very obvious to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u108	Do you also think that the United Kingdom should actually follow majority decisions, regardless of the budget they do not like? What's sincere? Shouldn't that be clarified tonight? If they wanted to throw the ass against the crib once in a while, we'd have a new problem with that delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u109	In my view, what I have read of leaked conclusions is also being addressed. What does that mean? You may not be able to enforce it legally, but I am counting on the United Kingdom to commit itself to doing so. Nor am I as afraid as Mr Van Rooijen of Mr Jacob Rees-Mogg, who now represents a minority in his parliament. So they can shout things; I think they are convulsions, but I am not so afraid that the United Kingdom, if they really want a deal, will get in the way. Anyway, I'd make an appointment about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u110	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u111	Finally, Mr President. The impression is given again that I'm afraid of that Mr. Rees-Mogg. On the contrary, the harder he hits, the weaker his position becomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u112	In my view, Mr Mulder and I agree on the main points, but I think it is right to highlight the position of the VVD now when it comes to the postponement. Mr Mulder says: 'busy works'. With the same ease you can reverse that reasoning: 'pressure does not work', because we are about to have an extra European summit this evening. You say, "We are also in favour of generous delay." In my contribution, I referred to the proposal made by Donald Tusk: make it a flextension. How's the VVD looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u113	I think I said that. That sounds good. You shouldn't give infinite delay. So you're gonna do that until March or December? That's a question for me if I'm well informed tonight. But he sounds very reasonable. You give time to think there, and at the same time you don't have to keep an extra top every month, with every chance of a Brexit. You'll have more time. That gives people and companies a lot of rest, so that sounds good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u114	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term... Mrs. Leijten forgot something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u115	No, Mr President, I would like to make a comment. Last night we all saw the debate in the media about what the European elections are about, possibly after it or not. I welcome that public debate, but I would like to express my disappointment that one of the people who are asked to respond to the desirability of a subsequent debate is still here to defend it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u116	Then you've made your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u117	I can agree with that, because that is about our colleague who is never there when it comes to Brexit. Thank you. And I wish the cabinet success in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. I'll see if the minister needs a brief suspension. Ten minutes? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 1.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u119	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a week ago, I spoke to the Chamber in the same composition on the same subject. Since then, a few important things have changed. Last Friday, Prime Minister May asked for a further postponement in a letter and yesterday, with EU colleagues from European Affairs, I had an additional Article 50 ministerial meeting following that request for a postponement and there is an additional Article 50 government meeting this evening which will be attended by Prime Minister Rutte. Many of the questions that have now been asked were actually as topical as they are today last week. We've only got eyes on further delay. I will answer the questions in chapters. The chapters will include questions about the extension option that is now on the table, questions about the position of citizens, questions about contingency planning and questions about other topics. First of all, the delay that is now before us. A number of MPs asked what is new about the office's position on the extension. The cabinet has always stated that it is important for the United Kingdom to be clear. Eventually there was still a withdrawal agreement, a political agreement. This was agreed between the UK Government and Mr Barnier on behalf of the EU-27. The government of the United Kingdom did not obtain a majority in the parliament. It makes sense, then, that for us the first message is always: indicate what you do want. Against this background, we have said: as long as that is not clear, it does not make much sense to take sharp statements about short or long extensions. That question wasn't there either. However, you have heard me and the Prime Minister regularly say that we are open to an extension in our own right, but that certainly belonged to the letter of Friday from Prime Minister May or to the clarity of the United Kingdom as to how long it wanted it to be and, of course, very coherently for which this extension would then be used. In this respect, I took up the position yesterday both in chambers and when the press asked for it, but that cannot surprise the Chamber that the Dutch cabinet is open to an extension with a number of conditions that closely correspond to what Mr Barnier mentioned. One of the conditions is that the UK specifies what it intends to use this extension for. It says in Friday's letter that it first wants to try to reach agreement with the opposition. If that is not possible, it would then like to hold a number of votes in Parliament on a number of other options. The second condition of the cabinet is to maintain the unity of the EU-27. It is of course of great value in this type of consultation. Luckily, that keeps working. A further condition is that the duration of the extension is proportionate to its purpose. That is also why I kept the option of a longer extension open yesterday. In addition, if the extension goes beyond the start of the European elections, these European elections will be organised. Finally, as long as the United Kingdom remains a member, it will also respect its obligations and carry out its membership constructively. Mr Van Ojik asked whether the situation we are now in is not just positive news and whether the chance of a no deal has been reduced. It is of course a good thing that the no deal that could have taken place on 29 March has been avoided so far. Further delay would mean that he would be pushed further away. At the same time, there is still the chance of a no deal. It could still be done by April 12th. All 27 people on the European side are still required to vote for this evening. But the British Government is also required to give its assent to the proposal on which the EU-27 can then agree. On the basis of yesterday's discussion with my colleagues, I have a strong indication that there is goodwill. But there's no certainty yet. Even if we take the bump tonight and realize a new delay, I still have to consider a hard Brexit. So it's a little more positive, but all the scenarios are still open and we're still running a real risk. Then there is the question raised by Mrs Maeijer but also by others, namely which options are open. In fact, yesterday in the Council of Ministers it appeared that all countries were open to an extension. The debate is about the exact length of the United Kingdom has actually requested a short extension and attached to it the conditions. I just mentioned the conditions of the Dutch government. Commissioner Barnier is also on the same page. Actually, it's very reasonable conditions. Some are actually a confirmation of what is in the treaty. If you are still a member of the European Union, then you have to organise European elections; that follows from the Treaty. Since the questions that are asked here are also asked elsewhere, it is wise, in order to avoid misunderstandings, to repeat explicitly that there is a need to organise European elections. Something similar applies to a constructive attitude. In fact, European cooperation is already assuming this. Of course, the statements made by a number of British parliamentarians, including hard Brexiteers, have been heard not only here in this Chamber but elsewhere as well. Then it makes sense for you to confirm once more: if you are a member, then it also includes: negotiating in good faith, a constructive attitude and not ruling over your grave where that is actually contrary to reasonableness because everyone assumes that you will no longer suffer the consequences of the decisions we are making with each other. The conditions added by Commissioner Barnier are necessary, but they are not new or unreasonable conditions that would create an invincible bump. The question raised by both GroenLinks and the Christian Union was: is it really inevitable to participate in the European elections if the UK is still a member on 23 May? The answer to that is a definite yes. It just follows from the treaty. Intermediary structures with elections but not participating are all contrary to the Treaty. Even if you tried, it would have very annoying consequences, because the legal validity of all kinds of decisions taken afterwards would be questioned immediately. So we shouldn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u121	I am looking at the structure of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u122	I am approaching the end of my first chapter on the extension and the conditions associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u123	Maybe it's good to finish that first. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u124	The last question was indeed from Mr Van Rooijen. It was about the negotiations on the MFF, the multiannual budget. I know there are some who still hope that they will be completed in 2019, but I do not expect that to happen. The type of extension currently on the table will not conflict with the fact that the United Kingdom is likely to still be a member and at the same time we would be negotiating an MFF. With this I hope to have completed my first chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u125	In the letter about the RAZ, the minister spoke of loyalty. He now used the word constructively. Mrs. May mentioned sincere. Those are all great words about how you'd work together. The minister just rightly said that you can expect the English not to rule over their graves because that would not be reasonable. My question then is whether the United Kingdom should actually accept majority decisions. Or do you say that they have that position, so they can cross over. "Constructive" says very little if they want to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u126	I think it is important to distinguish between legal and political reality. The legal reality is that, as long as you are a member of the European Union, you are a member of all the rights and obligations associated with it. You can practice it. The political reality is that of an announced departure which is still being discussed. It would not be reasonable for decisions that have an effect after the announced departure to be blocked or tried to change them very substantially. Can you make that legal? No. Is such an agreement without political significance? Neither, because for the time being, you're still at the table with each other and you need each other. We still don't know exactly how long, so you keep each other's political commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u127	A little more concrete, though. Does the Minister think that our Prime Minister should say this evening, if he is willing to postpone, that it is reasonable for the English to expect that they do not rule over their graves and that they therefore, apart from the legal side, keep as far away from politics as possible? That is actually my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u128	For this we have used our own formulation of loyal cooperation. It really depends on the type of issue that is at issue whether you say that they really should not send it because they will no longer be confronted with it themselves or that it is something for the short term on which they can discuss meaningfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u129	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u130	I have mentioned, and colleagues have done so before, that Macron may be bringing forward tonight that the English should give up their membership of the new European Commission. This indicates that the French do not simply agree to a postponement. I can imagine that the Netherlands, on another part, will also clearly tell the English that there is a clear attitude towards this postponement: we are going to make as much progress as possible between Europe and the European Union. We must not create political uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u131	I also indicated this by saying that I expect a constructive attitude from the UK. Last Monday's General Affairs Council inevitably dealt with subjects for the relatively long term. In doing so, it is often very desirable that the United Kingdom should also agree with views on the situation in the Middle East or Venezuela. That's an example where I don't think it's too bad faith at all to decide with his twenty-eight. If, for example, you are talking about the multiannual budget, that is not obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u132	Many of the conditions for postponement are very understandable. I call it respect for obligations, the preservation of unity and so on. My question concerns what is still in the Dutch annotated agenda. The Netherlands agrees to the postponement subject to convincingly substantiated evidence. Why? The Minister said that this has to do with the Corbyn-May meeting with a view to a solution. There may not be that prospect of a solution tonight. That's the problem. Does the Netherlands agree to postpone if this conversation continues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u133	In her Friday letter, Prime Minister May indicated that she saw two successive routes to reach that solution. The first is to speak with the opposition, which is quite a breakthrough in English politics. It has also indicated that, should this not lead to a conclusion, it is going to put forward a number of options again and will comply with them. Well, that's really a step further than when we last spoke today a week ago. So the United Kingdom has indeed not yet taken the final solution, but it has taken steps since then. It also fits within what I outlined to you at the beginning. Prime Minister Rutte and I have always indicated to you, from the moment that we agreed on that withdrawal agreement in London: first of all, the United Kingdom must indicate what it wants. Moreover, we are open to extension, but we need to know what it is. Within that bandwidth, we still operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u134	That is enlightening, I think, because then the conclusion is that we actually got this 'convincing basis with a view to a solution' with the letter from the British Prime Minister last Friday, so at least this evening it will not go to pieces with regard to the Netherlands. Well, that's the conclusion I'm allowed to draw, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u135	Sure, even if there are 26 countries at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u136	However, I would like to return to that point in the European elections. The Minister states that the United Kingdom is part of a treaty. Only that treaty is working under normal circumstances and we have now fallen into abnormal circumstances: the United Kingdom wants to leave. This could mean that the condition that we impose on the postponement of elections could also be called into question. What effect are these elections going to have according to the government's estimate in Britain? In our assessment, I have also indicated this in my contribution, rather counterproductive to the whole process of trying to reach such a deal than the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u137	At the beginning of the interruption, I heard a statement that would make the constitutionals of us fall from their seats, because it was stated that there is a treaty, but now the situation is changing, so you can also look at the treaty differently. The reason we agree laws and treaties is because we want to be able to fall back on them in difficult times. In this case too, therefore, the Convention will apply until another agreement has been reached. That this has consequences after the election of the European Parliament, that is true, but I indicated to you that any other solution has very profound consequences anyway. Suppose, without amending the treaty, we would say: either no European elections in the UK or elections, but the elected ones do not participate. In that case, anyone could go to court for any decision by which the European Parliament has a right of assent and say that the EP now has a composition contrary to the Treaty, so that decision is invalid. We just shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u138	Agreed. I am, of course, always open to lessons on the issue of the rule of law. I also fully agree with the Minister. However, opinions are divided as to whether that treaty also allows us to look at those elections. I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I did not receive an answer to that question on the basis of his assessment of the effect, perhaps not on our side, and I mean by 'our side' the EU-27, but on the side of the British island, of that rather destructive process of organising such an election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u139	I know that they are not looking forward to it, but also in Prime Minister May's letter she states that she accepts that consequence. Perhaps the prospect of organising this will give an additional impetus to the discussions that are currently taking place, of course in the lap of the London political dialogue. But in the debate with you, it is very important that I am clear that there is no alternative to simply participating in the elections and indeed taking part in Parliament, in whatever composition, because fortunately that is what the voter is about, and that may be uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u141	Then there is the question by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Asscher and Mr Omtzigt on the position of citizens and on the motion adopted by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Omtzigt, who asked to safeguard the position of citizens in a possible no-dealbrexit. Yesterday, in consultation with my fellow Members, I made it very clear that, should there be a no deal, I think that the position of citizens should really be at the top of the agenda of discussions with the United Kingdom. They must then start immediately, because we are still neighbours and we still have citizens on either side of the border. So that message from the motion is loud and clear and also conveyed to the European colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u142	The idea of this motion was precisely that if we find ourselves in a hard Brexit, in a no-deal scenario, we will not think but act, because these citizens really long for some form of security. Do I hear the Minister now say that we are only about to think about this... No, don't think. Are we not going to take action until that hard Brexit has taken place? Then a lot of people will be forced to cancel their jobs, their leases and other things. They won't be able to do anything with this appointment. Can't it be slimmed now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u143	First of all, the full commitment is to prevent us from getting into this situation. That's why we're talking about this delay, with the aim of getting into a deal scenario. There is obviously no willingness at the moment, not on the EU side but not on the British side, to close all kinds of sub-deals in the event of a no deal. I can say that in such a case I think that this subject should really be at the top of the agenda, but there is really no one who is now in favour of concluding a few sub-agreements in case what we really want, an agreement, is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u144	I'm surprised at the Minister's statement. Because in the British Parliament, the Costa amendment was adopted, and that is quite clear. They want this, so you can't say the British don't want this. Two. Both the EU and the British have said from day one: the situation of the citizens is really at the top. It says at the top that these people must have some degree of security. Now we're talking about 5 million citizens who feel threatened in the essence of their existence because they don't know if they can still live where they want to live in a few months' time. We're asking you to do something about that. Well, then we can assume this is happening, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u145	We have already done so in the Netherlands. Mr Omtzigt does a little bossy to me, but I have solved the problem. On the English side, it's not as solved as we'd like. I take note of the Costa amendment with interest, but I would much prefer that they solve the problem. That's up to them. I find it a little uncomfortable that Mr Omtzigt is now blaming the Dutch Government for something that the Dutch Government has resolved. The British Government is not prepared to conclude such an agreement at the moment. On the European side, nobody is that either, from the perspective that everyone wants to make full use of that deal scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u146	I've had this with this minister before. If it is all about the formalistic, procedural approach and the negotiating strategy, then we are always far too early, then none of it can yet, and then we undermine our position. I also like a few members of the opposition who sometimes say this. For months now, we have been calling for attention to be paid to these civil rights. D66 has done so along all kinds of different paths. We've filed a motion. There is broad support for this in the Chamber. We also asked for a letter to the cabinet on how that motion is being carried out. There is no clarity about that. Is there any anticipation of that? Is there a meeting? There are also always all kinds of consultations at informal times. Is there a pulse on what the possibilities are? I'd like that. It is called anticipating the situation which the Minister himself has just said is not unlikely, namely a no-dealbrexit. A no-dealbrexit can be there all of a sudden, so to speak, on April 12th. That is why we have put forward this motion in anticipation, in order to remove civil rights when it is necessary. My question to the Minister is: are you, as far as possible, doing as much as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u147	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u148	... behind the scenes, inside the frame of the bigger picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mr Verhoeven already knows the answer, and that is why I find this a little uncomfortable. For the Netherlands, and that's what I'm dealing with. Mr Verhoeven knows that. The care is in the UK. It is all wonderful that an amendment was adopted there, but they have not arranged it as we would like. Then Mr Verhoeven is right to ask me: did you do so? Yes, I have argued that, but I still cannot ensure that that part is settled on the British side. I also note that there is no willingness on the European side, nor is there any willingness on the part of the British Government, to conclude sub-deals. But it is not the case that the Dutch Government has not done what the Dutch Government could do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u150	That's not what I'm saying. What I do say is that we started talking about civil rights months ago. Each time I was given a rather formalistic service, not to say a stubborn minister for me, who said: no, we can't do all that, because there is still reason for that; you are way ahead of things. We in the Chamber have stated that the Netherlands is advocating within the European Union that, when a no-deal scenario arrives, or that this is inevitable as stated in the motion, we should remove civil rights. My question to the Minister is not whether the British want to do so. My question to the Minister is not whether or not other European countries want to. My question is whether the Netherlands, within these 27 countries, is making the most of this. I should like to encourage that a little bit, and the Minister does not have to feel uncomfortable about that either, because I have been asking for this for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u151	Sure. But that question has already been answered for the Netherlands, as Mr Verhoeven knows, because I have already dealt with it, and also months ago. And about the part that isn't settled is another parliament. Mr Verhoeven knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u153	Then I come to the questions that have been asked about contingency, the preparation for what we do not hope for, but what can still happen, namely a no-dealbrexit. Mr Asscher asked whether sufficient progress was being made. We know from the research we are doing among the business community about the awareness of the consequences of a no-dealbrexit and preparations, that the percentage of companies that are preparing and aware has increased significantly. Last summer, that was half of it. By now, that's three quarters. This still means that some of them are not sufficiently prepared. Our communication campaign is therefore still running. Of course, we are also constantly on the button, on the basis of developments. There's always such a shifting no-deal date. If this is likely to become a reality, we are going to do another communication battle. At the moment, I note that the preparations are going very well. To be honest, we also receive compliments from other countries. But I also have to be honest that we really cannot rule out, and that is why we also submitted that law to you at the time, that there are problems in unexpected places or that there are logistical or other bumps, especially in the first days after such a no-dealbrexit. A new challenge arises, of course, because of the situation which Mr Van Ojik understandably says is that it is nice that the Brexit is being postponed, but which can be an additional effect that the companies or the people who were just on edge at a certain point think: yes, we have heard it so often. That calls for a new communication strike. In short, that continues to be our focus. We are also able to scale up where necessary. Mr Omtzig referred to the concern he had previously expressed to Mr Grapperhaus on the exchange of judicial data. We have said earlier that one of the consequences of leaving the European Union is that the agreements on the exchange of information on justice under the Treaty lapse and that we then fall back on non-EU treaties, which fortunately are there. But they're asking for an extra editing stroke. For that we have already hired additional police liaisons, liaison officers. Specifically, the situation of the explanation of behaviour. Indeed, if the United Kingdom does not have a deal, it will become a third country. This means that personal data can no longer be exchanged through the EU-ECRIS system and that such a document does not have the legal force it has here. Where a dog will be required, such a person will not meet it. That is indeed an annoying consequence and one more reason to avoid such a scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u154	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u155	It is with the Justice Exchange section.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u156	Good. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u157	It is not a question of a British citizen living in Britain not getting a European vog anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u158	No, it's about a Brit coming here. That was obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u159	No! It's not about a Brit coming here; that's the point. This is a German who worked in Britain and comes here. That's where it goes wrong. We saw it at the Hofnarretje. That was a very nasty affair where dozens of children have been abused. We saw that this was about a Lithuanian who already had something on his mind in Germany. If that had been known, he would not have gotten his vog in the Netherlands to work here at a childcare facility. If an Irishman who has done something in Britain comes to the Netherlands, then the Irishman falls between the loopholes. Then no one will ask: may we see your British vog? And then we'll all be standing here on the back legs if anything happens. I'd like you to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u160	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u161	... writing a letter on how you are going to ensure that, with a bilateral treaty or with a Council of Europe Treaty, that doesn't make much difference to me. We learned this from the abuse cases, but also from the case with Dr. Jansen Steur, which also did not exchange data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u162	To this end, the prevention of a no-deal scenario is the first option. Then this is a occurrence. If that scenario does occur, this too is an issue that must be put at the top of the pile of things that still need to be settled. But it's not like you're gonna handle this with a letter in a week. When it comes to exchanging data, your Room also imposes very heavy privacy requirements. You're gonna have to settle that neatly. So that's at the top of the agenda. We shouldn't make it any simpler than it is. We have to consider it as an additional incentive to prevent us from getting into that scenario. Mr Drost asked whether we should now deduce from the Brexit that the European Union could use more self-reflection. Mr Bishop also mentioned this. I would prefer to say that this self-reflection is also sensible without Brexit and that the Dutch Government has not for nothing come up with a very clear agenda for the State of the Union too. We have indicated that we see a number of priorities on which Europe needs to take more of its role and make progress. Think of migration, innovation, security and climate. The budget needs to be adapted to the new priorities, but it also needs to be reduced in line with the UK's departure. By pointing out spearheads, you also point out that the other points are not therefore priorities and that we do not need a European Union that is going to interfere with all kinds of other issues for no reason. The Dutch government's commitment was therefore already loud and clear. The Brexit indeed indicates once again that you should not think without thought that the public, whether in the Netherlands or in the United Kingdom, is satisfied with everything politicians think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u163	I'll see how far you're at answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u164	I think I'm gonna need another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u165	Then I'm going to see Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u166	Indeed, we have often talked about how the Netherlands is in this. I have no reason to doubt the commitment of the Netherlands to this debate, but I am actually curious as to what its effects are. If I try to follow a little bit what is coming from the European Commission or from the European Parliament, then I see little effect from the efforts of the Netherlands, so let me put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u167	That is so general that I am going to challenge Mr Bishop to explain this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u168	Shrinking the budget: where is it going with that? Reducing to the core tasks and priorities set by the Netherlands: where are we on that? So that's what I call examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u169	As Mr Bishop knows, negotiations are under way on the multiannual budget. I have already indicated to you that I do not expect them to be completed this year; Mr Van Rooijen asked for them. Perhaps they would be completed this year if the Netherlands had not added these requirements: make sure that the departure of the United Kingdom also leads to a more limited budget and that the budget also focuses on spearheads.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u170	In conclusion, does this mean that in these negotiations it is clear to everyone that if the budget is not cut and when, even financially, the Netherlands is not set the right priorities, the Netherlands will not agree? Has that message been clearly passed on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u171	There is really no misunderstanding in the rest of Europe about the Dutch position. That is also easy for you to check. I would say: call colleagues in other countries, but you can open up an international newspaper every now and then and you will see for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Leijten says you can go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u173	Amazing things happen in every debate in Europe. I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for giving us the opportunity to say something. The Minister says that there is no misunderstanding in Europe about the Dutch position regarding the Multiannual Financial Framework. Well, here in this room there seems to be a misunderstanding right now. Mr Bishop claims that it is supposedly the cabinet's commitment to cut the budget. That's not the cabinet position. We have debated this on a number of occasions. So there is absolutely no use of cutting in the MFK. If that is not the case, then the cabinet has done exactly what it is intended to do, namely not to cut the budget. I hope the Minister will confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u174	The cabinet's commitment is to return to a proportional share of the Dutch and European economies in relation to the Commission's proposal, which represents an increase. The answer to the question of whether that is cutting depends on whether you are looking at the Commission's proposal. In the latter case, it is an equal share of the national product.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u175	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u176	Exactly. You can indeed sketch a future cake and then say: it's a very big cake and we're going to cut it in. But that cake isn't there yet. This is the current situation, and the budget is not cut in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u177	There is an adopted chamber motion that says: after the Brexit we have a smaller Union; that should produce a smaller parliament and a smaller budget. That motion was not adopted with the support of D66, but I assume that this is the commitment of the Dutch Government. My question to the Minister is another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u178	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u179	Yes. Saying what the Dutch position is... In my opinion, a ruling by the Chamber still determines the Dutch position. My question to the Minister is as follows. The future of the European Union, jointly deployed by Juncker and Tusk in 2017, should end with the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council at the informal summit in Romania on 9 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u180	That's a question for me now. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten had asked me about the informal summit that is coming. It seemed to me that I was going to answer that question. That summit will take place in Sibiu in May. Mrs Leijten's question was whether we want to call off that summit. That does not seem logical to me, because the Dutch Government has a very strong position on where Europe should go. That is the position we have presented to you in the State of the Union and I have just explained it again. There are a few countries in Europe that have done so so clearly, but there are not many of them at all. So we think it is very important to re-examine this clear agenda at such a European summit. Then, of course, the European elections will determine what the European Parliament is going to look like and what direction the new Parliament is going to take. However, it is logical that European governments should indicate at that very important moment in time what the spearheads they stand for and what that means for the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u181	That was Mrs Leijten's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u182	This summit is framed as the summit at which decisions are taken for the future of Europe. Two weeks later, we are going to ask the Dutch population, the German population, the Spanish population, the Czech population and the population of dozens of other countries: what do you really think? Now this government believes that we should give up the veto on foreign policy and defence and that there should be a super-Commissioner for migration, with which we should also give up control. That is all right, but is the government prepared to explain what exactly they are giving away in this process of political union? If you say that the priorities are security and migration, then I don't think people understand that we give away our say in these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u183	This interruption is part of a recognizable pattern, so that is in that sense a reassurance. First of all, an image is being created that Mrs Leijten herself outlined. She says that this is the government's position and then she asks me not to do so. Well, what Mrs Leijten just outlined was not the government's position. She sketched a lot of topics. No veto on defense. This has never been the case. No veto on foreign policy. The only thing that has been raised is the veto on human rights sanctions, for example, which the Chamber wants and which can now be stopped by one of the 28 Member States, perhaps also the country where an important port has just been financed by a country that could be targeted by human rights sanctions. In such a situation, it can really be in the Dutch interest to say: human rights sanctions are not unanimous. That's the only thing that's in store. This is just for the sake of relativization. Furthermore, the Dutch government's priorities are clear. I would appreciate it if other governments would put that on the table as clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u184	And now for the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u185	Mr Drost and others asked me about my response to what Mr Hoekstra said in The Financial Times. Well, the cabinet always speaks with a mouth, so also in The Financial Times, whether I speak in it or Mr Hoekstra. Mr Mulder and Mr Omtzigt asked whether there was a specific French wish regarding the Commissioner. The Chamber knows from me that I cannot go into the position of other countries myself. If they tell that in the press themselves, that is their position, but what I hear in a Council, as was the case yesterday, I cannot explain to each country. I have indicated to you that the treaties simply remain in force as long as the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union. Mr Omtzigt asked for a look ahead. If the United Kingdom leaves the European Union in any way, how can we ensure that relations remain close? That's first of all by thinking about that scenario. We were just having an interrupting debate on how much detail you can fill that out, but you also heard from my words that I did indeed outline yesterday what I should be at the top of the agenda if we were to sit with the UK the next day after a no-deal scenario. In addition, we make preparations in a practical sense, for example the extra police liaison officers, the extra customs people and the extra NVWA-people. At political level, too, we ensure that we are constantly in conversation. Today, of course, that is our Prime Minister and the day before yesterday I spoke to British Minister Hunt. In this way, we ensure that relations are good and intensive at both political and personal level, so that we can continue to work closely with each other in any scenario. Mr Omtzig asked about the situation arising when there are meetings with 27 countries without the United Kingdom. In fact, that situation is now occurring when we have such an article 50 consultation, as yesterday and today. When it comes to formal consultation, the government will always inform you in advance of our commitment and report back to you afterwards. Moreover, I do not foresee the creation of a genuine new gremium, but it may well be that this type of consultation will take place more often. If that's formal, we'll communicate with the Chamber in the familiar way. Mr Omtzigt asked me to refer to the legal opinion on withdrawal. The only thing I would like to recall is the judgment of the Court of Justice of December 2018, which stated that the UK would have the opportunity to revoke Article 50 until it has expired. This was decided in December, but that is also where the initiative lies with the UK. Then there is the lunch meeting on the outlook for the post-European elections situation. I wasn't there myself, because lunch started at 4 p.m. and I was on the plane; I had another obligation here last night. Our PV was there. The report was also included in the letter I sent you this morning. The outlook we have given there is, of course, in line with the outlook we have shown in the state of the Union. We have made it quite clear that it is ultimately the electorate who decides what form they want for the Europe of the future. Then I have two more questions about the conspiracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u186	Yes, from Mr. Omtzigt. Maybe it's okay if you answer it first before someone interrupts again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u187	One was about the cattle checkpoint, which we've talked about before. The final decision has not yet been taken on this, because we are still waiting for information from the companies concerned to take that decision. The other question... I've lost my touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u188	Mr. Omtzigt, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u189	We had the exchange of justice records... Well, otherwise we'll get to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u190	Mr. Ommzigt, do you remember? No, he doesn't remember. Okay, otherwise you'll return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u191	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u192	That's good. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u193	No, I'll get to it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u194	Okay, thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u195	The Minister is clear about what the Netherlands wants. And I think that is also supported by the Chamber. The question then arises as to whether this will also be promoted to EU policies. In short: what is the force field, how are other countries in it and what bumps are still on the way this afternoon, tonight and perhaps tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u196	With regard to extension, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u198	I outlined to you yesterday that I noticed that in fact all the countries were open to an extension, that the discussion was about the exact length and the exact conditions and that the latter two elements should be completed this afternoon. I have not seen red flags against renewal as such, but the agreement is only there when the Heads of State or Government will also send it down with both a date and the precise conditions. That is why I had to be careful towards Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u199	Are there countries now whose Foreign Minister says: 'Hey, they may be fundamentally different in the game than the Netherlands?'
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u200	Well, not so fundamental, because then I would have told you that yesterday I became very concerned about the possibility of extending. That is not the case, but I think it is purely to say that there must be an agreement on both the date and the precise conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u201	The Minister has already written about these precise conditions in his report. In fact, Barnier, the negotiator on behalf of the remaining countries, said that the withdrawal agreement could no longer be negotiated. But what exactly does the Minister think of that? Suppose the British come to a compromise that has broad support, but for which at least something has to fall out of the exit agreement. Should the position of the European Union be: the dictatorship is there; it is good that you have come out, but we are sticking to our borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u202	Mrs Leijten now refers to it in abstract terms, but the debate is about the Irish-Northern Irish border and not about the other parts of the withdrawal agreement. So Mrs Leijten is actually asking whether the European countries are prepared to become more flexible across the Irish-Northern Irish border. Because there's really no other discussion on the table. Then my question to Mrs Leijten would be: and what interest would that serve? The reason why we are so strict on that Irish-Northern Irish border is that no one wants to go back to the violence at that border we saw. And if you had no border controls, but a United Kingdom that is no longer a member of the European Union, products could enter the European Union and the Netherlands that meet lower quality standards than we want. I can't imagine Mrs Leijten would want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u203	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u204	The Minister knows very well how we are in this and that we do not advocate it at all. What we now have is a withdrawal agreement with a number of clauses and, among other things, a backstop. At the moment when you have made an appointment where that is no longer necessary, would it not be very chivalrous for the European Union to take that out? Because then you have a withdrawal agreement that goes through the House of Commons very smoothly. I would like to see that logic, at least with our Dutch government. We know that it is absent from the French Government, for example, but this logic should at least be in the hands of our Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u205	But that's it, and it's just in the Treaty of Accession. Now the confusion is complete. We agree that the jumping point is the Irish-Northern Irish border. Well, across that Irish-Northern Irish border, it says that as long as there's no other arrangement, there's the relapse. But because it says 'as long as there is no other regulation', everything Mrs Leijten advocates is happening. If there is, that backstop is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u206	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u207	But that is not enough for the British Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u208	Then why is it necessary, as a first demand, as negotiator from the 27 remaining Member States, to stop talking about the withdrawal agreement? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u209	Now Mrs Leijten makes it very abstract again. The starting point of that withdrawal agreement is the Irish-Northern Irish border. If Mrs Leijten sees another subject, she has to say it, because that helps this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u210	No, we're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u211	But the only jumping point is the Irish-Northern Irish border. I have just outlined why this is in the interest of the people in Ireland and Northern Ireland, of course, but also of the Netherlands. I have not heard Mrs Leijten contradict that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u212	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u213	I have also indicated to Mrs Leijten that the wish she still has, namely that the withdrawal treaty states that the backstop is no longer necessary if a definitive settlement is found, is already in place. So what is Mrs Leijten still looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u214	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u215	About that lunch meeting at 4 p.m., although it can also be 4 p.m. before lunch here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u216	Well, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u217	That's not gonna happen, good. I am pleased that the government indicates that in May the choice is ultimately up to the electorate in Europe, not the Heads of Government. That letter from the Romanian government also contained some other subtones. Could that letter just be made public at some point? Because the discussion has taken place, and I think it is important that this type of document should be on the table. I think that we should be able to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u218	Mr Omtzigt knows that I, as much as he, am in favour of greater openness, but that I need the agreement of the other countries to do so. I don't have it right now, and then I'm gonna keep the agreements we have right now. I can't disclose one-sided documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u219	There are many judgments of the European Court of Justice. This meeting has been held, so even for the individual exchange of views it is no longer important that this letter is still confidential. How can European citizens ever check what has been talked about if these papers, which are the basis of a conversation between all 28 Member States, are not public? Will the Minister at least say whether this can be made public? Or should we re-apply a WOB request? I am beginning to understand how to do it in Brussels, but I find it extremely undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u220	Of course, but we are also in complete agreement. But Mr Omtzigt also knows that this wish for openness, which lives in the Dutch Parliament, is shared in a number of other countries, but far from everywhere. We will therefore have to continue to attract this, but until the agreement is changed, I cannot unilaterally violate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u221	I have two more questions for the Minister. One. Can the Minister clarify the length of the delay that the Netherlands is now advocating? I read in the annotated agenda that the Netherlands is in favour of a longer delay. Can the Minister put a deadline on that? There are several of them lying around on the Internet. I wonder whether it is December, or March 2020, for example, or whether there are other options. My second question is also about the Council conclusions. This also means that all kinds of concepts are transferred to the Internet. I also asked in my first term: is it true that these conclusions include an explicit reference to the possibility of repealing Article 50 and, if so, what is the reason for that? Because usually when something like that is recorded, it's not without reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u222	I have indicated that the Netherlands is open to a longer extension. Whether that is December or January is not at the heart of the matter for me. That is one of the two things that I said this afternoon, must be decided tonight at the same time as those exact conditions. But it is quite clear that the Netherlands sees the great importance of preventing a hard Brexit. We're not in the same position as you are, and you argued for May 22nd. We believe it is important to prevent this and to provide room for it. That there are draft conclusions lying around I have also seen, but I am not going to comment on lying around draft conclusions. Tonight, final conclusions will be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u223	Then can you comment on the bet? Is it the commitment of, for example, the Dutch Government or was discussed yesterday in the General Affairs Council to include in the conclusions an explicit reference to the possibility of withdrawing Article 50?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u224	Twenty-seven countries have spoken yesterday, so this option has been discussed. Moreover, it also falls within the category that there is the possibility of repealing Article 50, whether you mention it or not. It existed anyway, but that was confirmed by the judgment of last December which Mr Omtzigt pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u225	Thank you. I shall now move on to the second term of the Chamber. I'm gonna go see who needs it. Mr Van Rooijen is already standing by on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u226	Mr. Chairman. I have only one point. A letter has come in from Sir William Cash, yet a distinguished person in the house there. He wrote today a letter to the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, asking whether a long extension should not be legally challenged at the UK courts. He has some arguments. I have the three-page letter right here in front of me. He says to Tusk: 'Know, if Prime Minister May were to agree, it could be discussed in English courts.' I would like to know from the Minister what the government's legal opinion is on this, because if that is discussed this afternoon, we will have another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u227	And everyone got that letter, Mr. Van Rooijen? Or was it specifically addressed to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u228	No, the lines aren't like that, but it's not the first one. It's also very special that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u229	Okay, but I don't know if everyone has that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u230	...this letter is there now. So it has to be discussed tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u231	The interesting thing about that letter is that Mr Cash, who is chairman of the EU House of Commons Committee, is now referring to the British courts. Two and a half years ago, they were talking about "enemies of the people." So Mr Cash has regained his confidence in English justice, and that is good news, we see here in our own parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u232	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u233	Would you like the letter, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u234	Well, it might be useful for those who don't have him to get that letter or get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u235	Yes, so I hope the Minister can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u236	Thank you. Then Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u237	Mr President, thank you. I have one motion. I'll read it to you immediately, given the time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the wish of the British people should be met;]] [[Considers that negotiators from both sides have made an incredible mess;]] [[whereas this process should also end almost three years after the referendum;]] [[Calls on the Government in Brussels to declare that only one last delay until 22 May 2019, the day before the elections to the European Parliament begin, is negotiable and to make every effort to reach an agreement before that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-348]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u238	Mr President, thank you. I have two points. These are, first and foremost, civil rights, but in view of the clock, I shall first table my motion on the postponement. I know that the Minister has already said a few things about this, but I would like to make a statement on this subject myself, given the history of this debate and last week. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on 5 April, Prime Minister May again submitted to the EU-27 a request to extend the deadline of Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union in order to break the current deadlock and sit down with the opposition;]] [[Whereas this is an opportunity to prevent no deal and to achieve a softer Brexit with less adverse effects for people and businesses;]] [[calls on the cabinet to advocate generous but functional postponement at the forthcoming EU summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Drost, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Asscher and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-349]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u239	My second point concerns civil rights. I understand very well that the Netherlands has done well for the British here. I know that, but I am concerned about the Dutch in the United Kingdom. Of this request, I believe that the Minister should be able to indicate what steps he is taking behind the scenes or whether he is anticipating...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u241	...or put it in a certain way. He has not provided any clarity. I would like to hear them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u242	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering our questions. Above all, I would like to stress that we support the motion that Mr Verhoeven has just tabled. By the word "beautiful" he used in it, we also explicitly mean the scenario that Donald Tusk sent around last night. We would like to call on the Minister to deal with this along those lines. The conclusion as far as the Christian Union is concerned is that it remains a matter of patience. As long as there's a delay, a no-deal scenario has been averted. In the end, no one will benefit from such a scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u244	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I will see if Mr Asscher needs a second term. No? Then Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u245	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Sibiu informal summit was seen as the conclusion of the preparations for "The Future of Europe";]] [[Considering that the direction of the European Union should be the outcome of democratic elections rather than a secret summit between Heads of Government and unelected European Commissioners;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Romanian Presidency that the Netherlands will wait for the results of the elections held at the end of May for the future of the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the United Kingdom's exit agreement was voted down three times;]] [[noting that negotiator Barnier demanded that the negotiation of the withdrawal agreement should be regarded as concluded;]] [[considers that the exit agreement should not remain on the table as a dictatorship, but should allow for a successful and sustained British exit plan;]] [[calls on the Government to allow for renegotiatation if there is a British plan that can count on a majority and to replace the EU-27 negotiator if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-350]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-351]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u246	Mr. Chairman. The point that had remained is whether the British Commissioner should be surrendered if they remain members. That seems to be what the French are suggesting. I wonder what the Dutch view is on this. I've heard well that the Justice Department is at the top of the pile at a hard Brexit to correct things like the vog. I will stick to that if this scenario, which we both do not want, would arise. I would nevertheless ask the government to ensure that the letter from the Romanian Presidency that is being discussed at lunch is made public in some way. I understand that these issues are not always made public in advance, but afterward we should be able to check what happened. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is possible to create new formal or informal bodies where only some of the EU Member States will be present;]] [[noting that the Transparency Directive and the Treaty do not apply by default to this type of gremia and that democratic control is very difficult without these safeguards;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to ensure that that kind of gremia is de facto covered by the Transparency Directive or equivalent rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Leijten and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-352]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u247	Mr. Chairman. One comment on this in order to avoid misunderstandings. This is not about the EU-27 if we have to negotiate with Britain, because then I understand that we have some degree of confidentiality with 27 of us. This is a matter of European Councils deciding on legislation. Of course, we have to report on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u248	Thank you. I'll see if the minister can answer. The last motion will be copied and distributed. Then we'll just wait for that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u249	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen asked for a reply to a letter from Mr Cash. I have not been able to read it, so I can only give it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u251	Yes, Mr. Van Rooijen, I was afraid of that. That's why I asked if that letter was known to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u252	No, Mr. Chairman. He wasn't even known to me until recently. Is it possible for the Minister to take note of this this afternoon and to respond again this afternoon? Because I would like to know whether a new problem has been created here, again from the parliament there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u253	In general, I would like to point out to Mr Van Rooijen that it is not unusual that when a government makes a proposal somewhere, someone else calls for him to go to court. I think 90% of all the laws I've been able to submit to you were then tested by the judge. That's the way it should be in a democracy. That is probably the case in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u254	Mr Omtzigt would like to explain something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u255	But that a coalition member here would write a letter to Tusk saying that we do not agree with the Foreign Minister, we have not yet seen that. Moreover, I have read the letter and it appears that Mr Cash de Cooper bill, the delay bill, has been completely forgotten. If it is taken, his letter is completely empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u256	We are not going to discuss any further about a letter while, apart from Mr Van Rooijen, hardly anyone knows that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u257	Yes. I will use a combination of "I will respond" and "don't panic" this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u258	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u259	Mrs Maeijer has in the motion on item No. 348 the decision that she made in the first place, namely that we should let the United Kingdom leave the European Union on 22 May in any case or no deal, so I read the motion for a resolution. I wonder if Mrs Maeijer realizes what a no-deal scenario per 22 would mean for Dutch fishermen, for example. Is that a price she wants to pay? Does it realize what that means for all those growers in the Westland whose tomatoes and cucumbers go to the UK in large quantities, for all those flower growers? Mrs Maeijer has tabled a motion in which she says: "Dear fishermen and growers, on 22 May, as far as the PVV is concerned, you can stop trading with the United Kingdom. Dear fishermen, you no longer have access to the fishing grounds where you now catch sole and herring." That's actually what it says. You do not mention it in the motion, but it is the consequence. By the way, I don't recommend the motion, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u260	Yeah, that was obvious. Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u261	I thought you were gonna leave him in judgment room. I am not going to comment on the substance of this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u262	I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u263	I referred to this in the first place. If the Minister had wanted to make such a point, it would have decorated him if he had just responded to it in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u264	I apologise for that, but I would now like to offer you the opportunity to indicate what this means for Dutch fishermen and growers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u265	Please continue. Yes, proceed!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u266	Mr Verhoeven spoke about civil rights. Yesterday, in the discussions between the European Ministers, I stressed that, even in the case of a no deal with priority, and as soon as such a scenario should arise, this should be discussed. That is not because it is necessary for the British in the Netherlands, but because it is necessary for the Dutch and other Europeans in the United Kingdom. That will continue to be my commitment, and that will not surprise anyone in Europe either, because of the attention I have already asked for. Mr Verhoeven, on behalf of Mr Drost, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Asscher and Mr Omtzig, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 349, which calls on the cabinet to advocate a generous but functional postponement at this afternoon's EU summit. That is in line with the government's commitment, so I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. Mr Drost is in fact in favour of patience in order to achieve a good outcome of the Brexit negotiations. I very much agree with him. Mrs Leijten has tabled two motions. First of all, it goes into the motion in part No. 350 more at the informal summit in Sibiu. I have already indicated that I think it is sensible, especially from the Dutch point of view, that Heads of Government discuss well with each other the challenges facing Europe. I also understand from Mrs Leijten's explanatory statement that she is very concerned that conclusions would then be drawn in granite hewn. Because it is an informal summit, as the motion says, that risk does not arise. This will require a formal summit scheduled for June. For both reasons, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u267	The Romanian Presidency really has a different view of this. The European Commission and the European Parliament also have a different view. The request to state on behalf of the Netherlands that the results of the elections should first be awaited for the future of the European Union does not say anything about whether or not it is an informal summit, but does give a clear position to the Romanians, the European Commission and the European Parliament, who really see this meeting in Sibiu in a very different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u268	If they saw that in a completely different way, they should have made it a formal summit, but that didn't happen. That underlines the point I am making. It is an informal summit, where important issues are discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u269	I don't think you're gonna get any closer, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u270	But I seriously don't understand why this should be discouraged. If the Minister says that this is the position of the Netherlands, why can he not indicate to the Romanian Presidency that, as far as he is concerned, the outcome of the European elections is leading and not the discussions in any Chamber or at any summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u271	Because the Dutch cabinet has clear positions, which we have also discussed extensively with the Chamber, on which the entire democratic control has taken place. I note that it is important that we include other European countries. That's why we need consultation. So why should I argue against a consultation in which we can support our clear strategy? That is not in the Dutch interest at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u272	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u273	The second motion by Mrs Leijten, which was tabled in part No. 351, calls on the government to make it possible to renegotiate if there is a British plan that can count on a majority, and to replace the EU-27 negotiator if necessary. As the motion has now been formulated, this is always true when there is a British plan that can count on a majority. It could be that there is a British plan without a backstop, it is that Irish-Northern-Irish border, which can count on a majority in the British Parliament. So we would have to renegotiate on the basis of such an agreement without a backstop. It really escapes me in whose interest that is. That is the discussion I just had with Mrs Leijten, which I did not get a clear answer to at the time. So I advise against this motion. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the possible French wish that there would be no British EU Commissioner. I had already answered it to Mr Mulder. Firstly, I cannot comment on the views of individual countries. Secondly, the treaty is black and white. As long as there is a treaty, everyone must abide by it. Only when it is not there will the Treaty's obligation for Member States to have a Commissioner lapse. Mr Omtzigt is right that the Treaty means that, in my view, there are 23 Commissioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u274	The treaty doesn't record it. Following the referendum in Ireland, it has been decided that for the time being we will insist that everyone has one Commissioner, but formally, if the other Member States decide to do so, there is no reason not to do so. So treatywise, there's a way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u275	Yes. Mr Omtzigt is right about that. That is why I corrected myself after saying the sentence about the Commissioner per Member State. It does not follow from the Treaty; the first part is that I cannot go into the French position unless they do so in public. With regard to judicial cooperation, specifically the exchange of information, I would also say that this issue will be above the agenda if a no-dealbrexit should occur. We both remain in favour of transparency, but we will have to continue to draw on this: the Dutch Parliament to the fellow parliaments and I to the fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u276	What about judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u277	Then I come to the motion calling on the government to ensure that this kind of gremia is de facto covered by the Transparency Directive or equivalent rules. This type of gremia, as indicated in the first sentence, is called "the formation of a new formal or informal gremia." For informal gremia there is no legal basis to be covered by the Transparency Directive. Nor would it be realistic to imagine to the Chamber that for the remaining period, weeks or months, we could launch a whole new procedure for all the Member States of the European Parliament. So what I can promise is that I will report on the agenda and the discussion myself before and after the formal consultations, as the Chamber has done with me. I have already indicated this in the first period. But I cannot promise that we will achieve a new implementation of the Transparency Directive. That's just not gonna work out at this time. So as firmly as this one is now formulated, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u278	This is what this is about. Legislation is being made in such a European Council. This means that we can control them, because they are being made up of reports and because the countries are obliged to inform the parliaments of what they have voted. That is very essential in a democracy: that we know whether the Netherlands voted for or against an EU directive. If we move that to an informal gremium, it will no longer be covered by the EU Treaty. Then indeed the Transparency Directive does not apply. Then you can change the EU treaty, and I understand that the Minister will say: that won't happen in a few weeks. But that's why it said "equivalent rules." That is because the eurogroup is set up, and there is no statute in that eurogroup. And because there is no statute on public access when the eurogroup is set up, we are constantly discussing what has been decided in that eurogroup. If it is decided to set up something informal like the eurogroup, in which these countries are present, that is the only time you can say at the time of its creation: we will add a set of statutes, and in that statute we simply state that we are applying the same rules as the EU transparency. We have proposed this in a paper with 20 parliaments of countries. It would be very nice if the Dutch Government would take care of that. That is what this motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u279	But then there are actually a number of options on the table. That is to say that it is formally decided to set up such an informal gremium. Then there's a moment to start that discussion. I think that is a fair point. However, there is also a possible form of informal consultation rather than formal decision-making. That can't be legislation, by the way. But then I really can't guarantee that we can make an appointment there. In the first case, I would like to make a commitment to this, but Mr Omtzigt already indicated that he would support this with 20 countries. I can't guarantee the outcome. So I'm going back to the exact request. I read that "that kind of gremia de facto... "This is too definite for the scenario I am setting out: there is no formal decision to set up a separate gremium, but actually there is talk of 27 countries from time to time. Then I cannot, as firmly as the motion now says, ensure that there is de facto work under the Transparency Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u280	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u281	Mr Omtzigt knows about me: my commitment will always be transparency in advance and afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u282	Mr. Chairman. I know that bet. And yet it is very important if we are to decide, for example through Council conclusions, that we are going to do so, and because these British are going to formally declare that they are not going to stifle the matter, that it is stated in those Council conclusions: 'the same openness regime applies'. That's one way. One way is to have it in the statutes. It doesn't matter what way. But I need to know which state has voted for and which state has voted against something and I need a formal report on it. And that once in a while there's a couple of ministers meeting in a room, yeah, I get that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u283	Then I can work for it, but this motion calls for an obligation to achieve results, and I really cannot guarantee that with 27 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u284	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-4.u285	We shall vote on the motions tabled at 3.30 p.m.
