ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on market forces in regional transport. I ask the Members to take their place. There have been four speakers. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP Group for his contribution. All speakers have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands had to take the passenger transport Act 2000 in the lead in the procurement of public transport. In the sacred market thinking that prevailed in the 1990s, commercial parties could do much better and cheaper. The travellers and the drivers knew that. Bus lines that have been cut off, towns and villages that are barely accessible with public transport and bus drivers who have to stop for a decent break. Money and not the traveller or the worker has become central. For example, I'm talking about Yvonne from Callantsoog, an older lady who feels buried in her neighborhood after lifting line 152 to Julianadorp. I am talking about Ineke of 65 years from Leusden, who can no longer go to the center from the elderly complex where she lives because bus lines 77 and 78 have been lifted. I am talking about the hundreds of drivers I spoke to last year during the strikes, who told one-by-one that they have to do their job hunted, have no more decent breaks, no more time for travellers and have to drive with poor equipment. I am also talking about the countless complaints from travellers after Qbuzz took over the concession in the Drechtsteden this year. All effects of market forces and the tendering circus in regional transport. The Secretary of State will include social security, accessibility and working conditions in the investigation of market forces in public transport. We are pleased with that. But there will also be a broad evaluation of previous decentralisations. Is the Secretary of State going to involve them in the consideration to decentralise more lines, for example the four contained in the coalition agreement? Who are the commercial parties offering regional transport? These are not commercial companies, but German, French and Italian state-owned companies, which eagerly take advantage of our leading role, which make millions of dollars out of our public supply and which fill foreign state-owned banks with Dutch money. How weird do you want it? Public transport is an important public service. If there has to be a government that is interfering with this, then that must be the Dutch government. Look at the big cities, where organisations like the RET, the HTM or the CFP offer public transport. Why wouldn't it be possible in more places in the country? I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to amend the Passenger Transport Act 2000 so that the granting of concessions on a private basis throughout the country can be made possible and our transport companies can take care of regional transport. Is she willing to do that? I'd like a response. In conclusion, it is clear for the SP that market forces in regional transport are failing. We must reinvest public responsibility for an important public supply without interference from foreign state-owned companies. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP and are we going to achieve this together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u3	Thank you. This calls for an interruption by Mr Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u4	I hear Mr Laçin talking about foreign state-owned companies operating here, i.e. providing public transport services. The SP solves this by giving Dutch public companies, such as the HTM here in The Hague or the RET in Rotterdam, a kind of monopoly position for providing public transport in the rest of the Netherlands. Does that make it better, Mr Laçin? Does that make the traveler any better? Does that make public transport more profitable? Did the SP investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u5	That's a lot of questions. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u6	I will answer these briefly. We are indeed convinced that it will be better and cheaper, because we can see one thing: the calls for tenders launched under the 2000 Passenger Transport Act have certainly not made it better and cheaper. In particular, in the regions of the region where Mr Schonis already knows of Zeeland's inhabitants, perhaps more of the bus lines have been lifted and many small towns and villages are now unreachable. If we organise this ourselves, we can do so, because we have done so in the past, and I believe that it will certainly be better and not forgetting that the conditions of employment for bus drivers will also be much better. Those bus drivers indicate one-by-one that they face every tender and every concession. That's gotta stop sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u7	Thank you. Mr. Schonis, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u8	Mr Laçin is indeed asking about the situation in Zeeland. Then I always give the example of my father, who has been driving around Walcheren as one of the volunteers on a neighbourhood bus since his retirement. This is what the province itself agreed with Connexxion in the current concession. Connexxion simply couldn't let a bus run for profit anymore, but with a number of volunteers that bus could ride. Now there is more often a bus, so people have as good accessibility as before and my father has a nice day on it. So I think Mr Laçin is suggesting things a little bit black-witter than the situation really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u9	I am very pleased that Mr Schonis' father is having a nice day, but the point the SP has always opposed is that regular work has been replaced by voluntary work. All due respect to your father, I hope he can keep driving that bus for a long time. But that is probably why bus drivers have become unemployed or have to do other jobs. The SP always opposes this, because bus transport, regional transport, is part of the quality of life of a neighbourhood. People should always be able to appeal to it. It's real work and there's real working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u10	Thank you. I'd like to meet up with a maximum of two interruptions. Would you like to use your second interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u11	Well, in that case, I'll save him a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u12	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u13	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is hopefully awaiting the larger investigation that the Secretary of State has carried out into the impact of market forces on public transport. We asked for this at the time, together with others, because there were major labour disputes in regional transport. The unions wanted decent working conditions and a ditto salary. The travelers wanted a good service. But the public transport companies have to make a profit out of their shareholders and the provinces want most kilometres at the lowest price. For that puzzle, the best solution is not always found. We want to. We want an O.V. that is once again seen as a well-covering, affordable basic provision on which you can rely. A basic provision means that it makes an important contribution to combating, for example, transport poverty, which I have previously called attention to. I'm talking about the white spots on the map, where there's almost no more O.V. because the lines aren't profitable and where Mobility as a Service is still a theoretical concept. Mobility is a very important condition for people to participate in social life. That is why the public service must be good and affordable for all. That must be the target. Any choice of a system, whatever system, must be checked against it. This also includes the fact that there will be no keen competition on terms of employment, because that is the only thing that can be competed on. The strikes in last summer's bus transport were precisely about that. We are on the side of the people on the bus: staff and passengers. We have had a number of discussions with the Secretary of State on whether she, as the final manager of public transport, does not have a responsibility to ensure that such excesses do not arise. In fact, the Secretary of State said all the time: that's not my role. But we continue to ask that question. A good and affordable o for staff and passengers is, in our opinion, the task for this Secretary of State. I ask her what role she sees for herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u14	I fully agree with Mrs Kröger's speech, but I am curious about the following. D.A.'s a basic facility. Drivers, whatever GroenLinks is talking about, indicate: that market forces and those tenders... Each time the weather gets worse, each time we have less time and every time bad material. Does GroenLinks therefore think that we should invest this basic provision publicly and then grant it directly throughout the country, so that provinces or the government itself can control it and not, for example, always dominate the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u15	We have had the same discussion in the healthcare sector, where the question is: should you not, as a municipality or as a transport region, have the option of choosing how to tender and whether to grant it privately? I have just heard Mr Laçin's contribution, so I am very curious about the proposal that is to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u16	I'm going to make that proposal in a motion later. I'm sure Mrs. Kröger will see it. I am glad to hear that we can certainly find GroenLinks on our side in that regard. We must not see it in terms of cost-effective or pennies, and that it must yield a great deal. Public transport is a public service. We have to be able to do that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u17	I am also very curious to hear about this, and I would like to follow up on the reason why we asked for a study of the effects of this market operation. What has that really done in terms of cost? Which brings me to the questions I have left. What are the consequences of market forces on how much we now pay as a government and as a passenger for a journey? What's better, what's worse? How did the offer get leaner, but perhaps more comfortable? What new forms of OV can provide an answer to this? I would specifically like to ask the Secretary of State whether she can also see how much work and cost actually requires the entire tendering process of provinces and also for transport providers. What additional costs are involved in the system we now have? I would also very much like to see how local transport is currently moving around on the facilities of the NS and how substitution and dedoublement leads to efficiency, regardless of market forces. So what effects would we have had anyway, even without market forces? I have to finish. Finally, it is high time for that thorough analysis of the effects. That's it, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u18	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been a passionate week. Then it is also nice to be able to close the week with a debate without words like "sink down," "blood on the hands" or "malafide smugglers." The PVV is therefore fully ready for the thirty-member debate on market forces in regional transport. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants our regional transport to remain reliable and safe. That is why we are critical of the issue of market forces in regional transport. 'Cause it's gonna happen to you that uneconomic lines won't or won't barely drive anymore. In the small cores, you lose a lot of mobility. We assume that the Secretary of State is also very keen on this. Therefore, the PVV considers that market forces in regional transport should not be at the expense of accessibility. We certainly understand that this is a matter of concern to us in this debate. However, this does not mean that if a commercial party is going to deal with regional transport, for example, fewer trains or buses are going to run along the station. Mr. Chairman. Market forces also offer opportunities. This month, both Keolis and Arriva scored high in the OV-Customer barometer. Travellers saw a positive improvement compared to the previous carrier. The NS also scored well in this barometer and, like the decentralised carriers, scored an average of 7.6. Our Dutch Railways are certainly not on their way back. The PVV's advice is therefore to look at areas where market forces can give new impetus to old routes and where this is also widely supported by both politicians and transporters, but certainly also the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u20	It is good to hear that the PVV also believes that market forces should not be at the expense of accessibility, at least those of cores and villages. But what I want to ask a question about is the fact that those commercial companies that the PVV is talking about are not commercial companies at all. They're all state-owned companies. Mr Van Aalst, for example, mentioned Arriva. Arriva is owned by Deutsche Bahn, which is just a German state-owned company. Keolis is 70% owned by France and 30% by Canada. So do you think it's weird with me that we are spending Dutch money from a public supply to foreign state companies and therefore foreign state banks? Shouldn't we be doing that differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u21	This is, of course, the clear story of market forces. For the PVV is simply one that the traveller should benefit from it. And yes, whether Arriva... NS is being played by us as government, so in that sense that's the same story. In recent times, we have seen in these decentralised lines that market forces have produced a great deal for that traveller. Then I don't think it's very important who the other party is. It is precisely me that we have other parties besides NS that have to keep NS sharp. And yes, for us NS is very often preferred, especially on the main rail network. If there's no other way, I'm okay with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u22	Thank you. Mr Laçin, a final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u23	I'll stick to local transport anyway, not just to involve NS. I find it striking to hear that the PVV is okay with our Dutch money going to foreign state cases. But the follow-up question is: wouldn't it be possible for the PVV to make direct awards possible nationwide, and to start offering transport with, for example, provincial transport companies or with Dutch companies? I call RET, CFP and HTM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u24	It could be. I think that we should simply look at what is best for the traveller in that tender. And you say that we bring Dutch money abroad, but I think the SP is the party that brings handfuls of money to development aid every year. So in that respect, I say, improve the world and start with yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u25	Thanks for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u26	All right, Mr. Chairman, I'll move on. An important condition is that market forces in local transport should not be at the expense of public transport safety. This can be overlooked if new tenders do not make sufficient use of a good security budget. Does the Secretary of State share this concern of the PVV? Mr. Chairman. The common thread in our vision is that the traveller must remain at the centre. If that passenger is better served by market incentives on some routes of regional transport, then the PVV does not close the door in advance, but looks at the opportunities it can bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u27	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question of whether or not market forces in public transport have improved is a matter for differences of opinion, and that is clear this evening. Nor do I have the illusion that today, with my contribution, I will align all parties on this point. In fact, at D66, as with the PVV, it is the traveller who should be at the heart of the discussion about the market operation in public transport. Because yes, as Mr Kröger himself said: whatever system of organization you apply, it's always about that traveler who must be able to travel comfortably and quickly from A to B. Provinces and transport regions are on the move. They shall choose which parts of regional transport they may or may not contract and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u29	Let me just say to Mr Schonis that I said that this is a matter of trustworthy security for everyone. This involved both passengers and workers. That is, of course, at the heart of the matter. Perhaps some things have improved for passengers, but market forces as they are now set up, with tough competition on working conditions, simply have incredibly negative effects on employees. I think that's exactly what we've been asking the Secretary of State for the whole time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u30	In my view, this was not a question, but rather a clarification of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u31	Thank you for this clarification, Mrs Kröger. However, the fact remains that provinces and transport regions are the move. They shall choose which parts of regional transport they shall contract and under what conditions they shall do so. We are concerned that the traveller should be able to travel comfortably from A to B. In order to do so, you have to make good and measurable agreements with the carriers in the tendering process. Those agreements must also be guaranteed in the long term, and they must be financially enforceable. The matters which provinces and carriers have to contractually regulate are enshrined in the Passenger Transport Act. Mr Laçin referred to this earlier. Two things I would like to highlight this evening, namely the accessibility of public transport and the step towards zero-emission, i.e. electric and clean buses. The need for stations, trains, bus stops and buses to be easily accessible to all is regulated by law. But how do we check that buses do have that low entry standard? For example, some stations of the Randstad lightrail are not easily accessible for wheelchairs. At Leidschendam-Voorburg station someone who is well on his feet already has a nice small step for mankind to make, let alone that a disabled person is able to catch the light rail in time. So how are we going to improve the implementation of the law on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u32	Mr. Laçin, I see you're trying to interrupt, but I was trying to prove that you've already had two interruptions. A short question may be asked, but that applies immediately to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u33	I would like to go back to the beginning of Mr Schonis' speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u34	If you'll just keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u35	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The SP also believes that the traveller is central. But what is Mr Schonis' message to all those bus drivers who work under poor working conditions? And what's his message towards Yvonne from Callantsoog and Ineke from 65, who just don't have a bus anymore because the new carrier didn't think it was profitable and had something like: yes, we're not going to do that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u36	First of all, about those two ladies you mention, because I wonder if the offerer didn't think it was profitable. A question from the province precedes that. When the county says, "I want to transport so many people at so much cost," a provider looks at that and says, "I can't let those two people drive the bus." That is another point that you always make, namely that everyone must have public transport, a kind of right to public transport. You can arrange that in a different way than just with buses. Mrs Kröger, for example, talked about Mobility as a Service, new applications. You can think about that, too. I do agree with you on this point, but I think that we should be able to challenge the Secretary of State to see how we roll out Mobility as a Service in addition to public transport in the Netherlands in order to improve the accessibility and accessibility of regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u37	Mr Laçin, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u38	Shortly. Mrs Kröger also mentioned Mobility as a Service as a theoretical thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u39	You talk a lot about Mrs Kröger, I notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u40	That is a compliment to Mrs Kröger. But I would like to ask about market forces. Do D66 and Mr Schonis think that provinces, like the big cities, should have the possibility of granting private contracts and regulating their own transport themselves, without necessarily having to sign public contracts? Is that an option for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u41	I can say yes to that question without further ado. I said it from the beginning, during the whole debate on the regionalisation of certain railway lines in the main rail network. It has always been said that we can regionalise much more parts of the rail system. I have always made this a condition: the traveller must be better off, of course, provinces must be able to do so themselves. Someone has already mentioned that not every province can organise such a tender itself for a while, and you also have to make long-term agreements about it, including financially. I think Limburg is a very good example of this. Limburg has made such a public tender for part of the railway and bus. The concession runs until 2030, but the agreements are financially secured until 2023. I've been very excited about that for the last seven years. Then I think: if we can't get that off the front, then perhaps we should also look at private tenders, in which provinces can use their limited financial resources in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u43	Here comes the star of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u44	I thought I'd just listen and see if it's still coming. However, in Mr Schonis's story, I do not see the fact that market forces still affect working conditions and the position of workers. Where is that in the story of D66 or does it not fit in with Mr Schonis' liberal image?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u45	Social-liberal image, to be precise. Doesn't that fit? I think that'll fit. The examples mentioned by Mr Laçin and Mrs Kröger are individual cases of bus drivers. There will undoubtedly be people who think they have an unhappy schedule or who have other problems with their employer, but it is primarily the responsibility of the carriers, of the employers, to make good agreements with their employees. We have a good system for that in the Netherlands. I will give an example of a work visit I made myself in Badhoevedorp. I shall now come to my second point. That was about electric buses. They have introduced a whole system of electric buses and have had to learn how to charge those buses and how to say your schematic "tramboek" I would like to say, but it is a bit different with a bus and departure times, but also the breaks of your employees, for example. You can just make great deals about that. I do not see that market forces automatically put pressure on working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u46	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u47	Yes, merci. This brings me to the following point: zero emission of public transport. The cabinet's objective is to allow all public transport, all bus transport, to be zero emission by 2030. As far as we are concerned, that is a good objective. After all, we want to achieve the climate agreement. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is logical that we should prescribe the use of zero-emission buses. Does the Secretary of State agree with us and does she see any possibility of adding some kind of additional condition or otherwise to the Passenger Transport Act 2000 on that point? That is my contribution, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u48	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. The Secretary of State has indicated that she needs five minutes to prepare herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u49	The Secretary of State is ready to answer all the questions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, as I said in the AO when we talked about this: I am not in favour of or against market forces, I am in favour of the traveller. I also think that is what the traveler in the Netherlands can expect, that we are not putting the dogma first, but the traveller. Let me also say that I have a great deal of appreciation for this, which I also hear in the contributions and in the concerns of some Members of Parliament for the work done by all those people in public transport. Let me have said that at the beginning. This discussion seems to be driven by the question of who should do what, who should take care of what and what market forces do or do not do. The provinces are about what. The provinces and regions determine how many bus lines there are, where the stops are and how much money they make available. To those Members who say that we should nationalise it or that we should do it via state-owned companies, I say: state-owned companies do not drive for free. The budget will always determine how much you can drive and where you use those euros as effectively as possible. Even if you do, there's a limit. You can't have a bus ride every street unless you make a lot of money available for that. The budget will therefore always be part of how many bus stops you have and where. Also, a state-owned company doesn't run for free. We have also seen in the decentralised lines that the carriers in these places have managed to improve the passenger. Nor is it true that procurement is always about foreign companies. The NS or companies associated with the NS can also simply participate in the tender. Contracting or not is not the same as domestic or foreign business. We have also shared the view that it is important not to compete on terms of employment or social security. Are there no questions to ask at all? Yes, there are, and that is why we have taken stock of them in a general consultation. I've agreed to investigate a number of questions. I just think it is important, before we go to the next concession round, to have these kinds of points clearly in mind, that we learn from what we have done so far, from the results and not from a theoretical approach. Together with the Chamber, we started that investigation. I sent the Chamber the investigation setup. Then a number of things were added by the Chamber. That investigation is now under way, and I'll wait and see. That research, I say to Mr Laçin, and other studies that have been carried out, he referred to a few other studies, and of course we all want to be able to participate in the integrated decision-making process on whether or not further decentralisation, such as the lines mentioned in the coalition agreement. So all the plans are aimed at having all that information at the same time, so that we have the factual basis in order with each other. At the beginning of 2020, we are going to make a decision, so it must all be there. What are we all going into in the investigation? Just a reminder, even if the MPs know it all. It is about past and present experience and effects of market forces and public procurement. We also want answers to be given to the situation in which you want to lay down the basic conditions for public transport and to which I am responsible as a system operator. We're going to look at the effects in practice. The study should focus on the development of cases. In this way, we can make the effects of public procurement clear in practice. At the request of SP and CDA, the research will be extended to include a qualitative research among employees of the company in order to gain their experience with market operation. At the request of among others 50PLUS I also bring accessibility. At the request of the PvdA and a number of other parties, I also bring social security. At the beginning of 2020, you will receive the results so that we can involve them in the debate on the market organisation. I also take with me the issue of working conditions and working conditions. Then social security. The PVV asked for this in particular. The agreement is that there is no competition on social security. That is what we agreed with each other in a covenant on social security. Local authorities can, through their concession conditions, ensure that there is no competition for social security. But again, that is also what is being looked at in this research design. D66 asked about accessibility. The decentralised authorities are obliged to comply with the requirements of the Decision and the Accessibility of Public Transport Scheme. That decision sets out in detail what vehicles and infrastructure must comply with in order to be accessible to people with disabilities. Local authorities are discussing the further development of directives to make accessibility requirements as uniform as possible. On the phase-out of the application of the requirements in the tender, I am in consultation with the DOVA cooperative. Furthermore, I will also include accessibility in the examination of the effects of public procurement in public procurement, as I have just said. Then a final point of D66, prescribing zero-emission bus transport. That's up to provinces. They take it often. It is currently the subject of the discussion with them, in the context of the climate agreement. That is why it was mentioned in the draft climate agreement. So I do not want to anticipate an obligation, as we are still making agreements with them. It may seem short, but I think I have been able to answer the substantive questions. After all, a lot of questions come back to the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u51	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u52	Thanks for the answer. I would like to stress once again that the SP is also very pleased that this research is being carried out. We have been given the design, and our points, working conditions, accessibility and so on are all taken into account. We're very happy about that. I would like to go back to the first sentence of the Secretary of State, namely that it is ultimately about the traveller. The Secretary of State says that the question of whether or not there is market forces does not really matter very much. But I would like to mention the example of the four major cities, which have an exceptional position. Is the Secretary of State open to making that possibility possible for all provinces, for example, so that they can make that choice themselves and perhaps also work with a provincial transport company, with a form of a RET or HTM? Then they can still make that choice. Can we, as a state government, make that possible for the provinces under the Passenger Transport Act 2000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u53	The question is always: can we do it according to European regulations? It follows from the PCA Regulation that this may be done under certain conditions, if provided for in national legislation. It would therefore require a legislative change, but technically it would be possible to allow such a change in the Netherlands. Whether or not it is desirable, I cannot judge at this stage, because that is precisely why we are doing the research. I don't want to anticipate that. On the basis of the issues raised by the examination of the effects of public procurement, you might be able to assess whether Mr Laçin's proposal is something that would help us to address those concerns or not. And then you can finally look at the desirability of the different solutions. Well, technically, it's possible. Mr Laçin is right that this will require a change in our national legislation, but that the European regulation will not necessarily stand in the way of that. I'm just not going to anticipate the desirability yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u54	I do not think that the assessment of the desirability of possible direct award is necessarily the responsibility of the Secretary of State. I think the provinces have much more to say about this at the moment. After all, they now have to tender, because the passenger transport Act 2000 actually obliges them to do so. This does not apply only to the four major cities. I therefore believe that it would be wise for us to give them that opportunity now. Then they can decide for themselves whether or not to do so. Why should we discuss the desirability here, when in this case a province, including a public body, should be able to make that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u55	Because this Chamber also regularly appeals to me on my system responsibility and because I cannot judge in advance whether this is a useful addition to the implementation of that system responsibility or not. Before that, I want to wait and see that investigation. That's why I'm not getting ahead of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u56	The Secretary of State stated at the beginning of her speech that competition on social security or working conditions is not desirable. My question is this: does the Secretary of State think that this is the case at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u57	These are exactly the points we have said that they need to be examined. Mrs Kröger is of the opinion that this is the case, and that is what I hear a little bit in her question. I said, let's see if that's true. There have been agreements between the parties, so we are looking at these points as well. That's exactly why we're going to do that investigation first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u58	There is a covenant on social security, not to compete on it, but on working conditions... Is it not true that in a concession almost everything is fixed and that working conditions are actually the only conditions on which to compete? I do not think that there is any evidence to show whether this is the case, because that is what one can compete for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u59	In the Netherlands we have the Working Conditions Act. That, by the way, is the area of the Secretary of State for SSN. She sent you a letter on 24 January. The Working Conditions Act lays down that the primary responsibility of the legislator is to ensure good working conditions. It is responsible for organizing the work in a way in which, for example, drivers remain fit behind the wheel. It sets out how long workers are allowed to work and when a person is entitled to a break and rest periods. In collective agreements, not even in my field of activity, employees and employers can make further arrangements. The SZW inspection may also intervene in the event of non-compliance with labour rules. So the legal basis is just secured through the SZW regulation. The provinces may take social aspects even further into account in procurement procedures, but carriers must comply at all times with the applicable legal frameworks and collective agreements. I'll take the subject of terms of employment and working conditions into the investigation. There are different collective agreements in public transport. I want to understand the differences between these collective agreements and how they relate to collective agreements of similar professions. That's how we agreed on that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u60	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term with the MPs. I see that Mr Laçin needs that, as does Mrs Kröger, so we have two people for the second term. I give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can certainly taste some room in the Secretary of State on the SP's proposals, for example, to allow for direct granting. It wonders whether this is still desirable. We believe that competition on working conditions and the disappearance of public transport opportunities for many of the people we have spoken to are sufficient grounds for tabling the next motion to strengthen our proposals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Transport of Passengers Act 2000 is based on concessions following public contracts for regional transport;]] [[noting that there is an exception for the four major cities which allows the granting of concessions on a direct basis;]] [[whereas public transport in three major cities is carried out by Dutch transport companies (RET, HTM, CFP);]] [[Whereas regional transport is currently mainly carried out by foreign state-owned companies;]] [[considers that public transport is an important public provision and that implementation should therefore also be public and nationalised;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Transport of Passengers Act 2000 in such a way as to allow the granting of concessions in regional transport directly throughout the country;]] [[calls on the Government also to discuss with provinces the setting up of provincial transport companies capable of carrying out regional transport operations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23645-703]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u62	Thank you. Finally, I would like to make one final point. The Secretary of State just said that Europe is not an obstacle at the moment to granting it directly. If we wait a little longer, the third mobility package will go through and transport companies from abroad will also be able to offer domestic bus services without a concession. We really shouldn't want that. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if she agrees with me. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u63	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kröger for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u64	Thank you, Mr President. No motion from my hand, but I do have two comments. The first point is that in these debates the Secretary of State often says that the traveller is on one side. That's actually some kind of mantra. We start almost every debate with that. I find that I simply miss the fact that the staff should actually be on one. This is a broader concern that also applies to other public sectors. The traveler's on one. The traveller becomes a kind of consumer and the staff has to deliver. In practice, it is true that working conditions are printed. Of course, that's what we were just talking about. Do the minimum provisions laid down by law give sufficient room for transport providers to compete? Because that's the only thing that can be competed on. That is actually my second point. The Secretary of State said that we should not have competition on social security and working conditions. I found that statement by the Secretary of State encouraging. I'll take that as a target, like the policy commitment the Secretary of State really has. I hope that we can translate it into concrete steps. I think we don't have to wait for that research to happen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u65	Thank you. I believe that the Secretary of State can immediately give an appreciation of the one motion that has been tabled. A number of questions have also been asked. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u66	Mr. Chairman. I've got the motion in part no. 703 actually already have an appreciation before she was submitted by indicating that I will not get ahead of this. So I'm gonna dissuade that motion. I'd like to wait for the investigation first. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u67	One moment. Mr Laçin has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u68	The motion calls for direct grants to be made possible and for talks with provinces about the setting up, for example, of a provincial transport company. I think it is rather premature for the Secretary of State to say here immediately: I am not going to do that. At least I expect the Secretary of State to talk to those provinces and see what they want. Because they are ultimately responsible for regional transport at the moment. Why should we decide that here and not talk to them about the desirability of giving a private hand and a provincial transport company?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u69	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u70	Mr. Chairman. I talk very regularly with the provinces, about all kinds of things, including decentralisation. That is not why the motion is needed. The motion asks me to anticipate an analysis that is still under way and which requires me to take responsibility as a system responsible. I am not prepared to do that, so I stand by my judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u71	The motion in part No. 703 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u72	Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the issue of liberalisation. European legislation on liberalisation, for example on rail services, has always included an economic balance test as part of liberalisation. This ensures that concessions issued in the core are protected. That is an important precondition for this. Then Mrs Kröger said that the traveler is on one. Yes, it is. I am glad that this has been so well understood that it is now even sometimes frappez toujours. And if we really all do, let us put it first in the discussion we are having here, rather than the resources. Put the goal first; put the traveler first. The effect on the traveller: that should be paramount rather than a specific means. The second point I made in this debate was about staff. I hope that Mrs Kröger feels supported. I've expressed my appreciation for those staff. That is why I have indicated that working conditions and social security are also included in this study. We have a legal minimum, but we are concerned about whether that is indeed the only thing one can compete on and whether that has effects that you really shouldn't want. That's exactly what we're going to map. Because if we shouldn't want to, then we shouldn't. That's what the investigation is for. The same applies to social security. A covenant has been concluded on this because we agree that social security is simply important. That is why we often talk about it in the Chamber. Mrs Kröger is always very supportive of this. I would also like to stress this late at night. That's what we're working on together. Mr. Chairman. With this I have answered the questions of the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u73	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-20.u74	The vote on the one motion will take place on 14 May. I thank the Secretary of State. I would like to thank the House of Representatives, the public gallery, the viewers at home and, of course, everyone who is present in this Chamber. I wish you all a very nice recess.
