ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Media Act 2008 (35042). I would like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Sneller as the first speaker on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Of course, filing a Variawet media is a bit of a parliamentary entrapment, so my input is also about a varied palette of subjects. The Variawet media itself proposes a number of improvements, including in the area of the new service test and appointment procedures. As a starting point for my assessment of these proposals, my observation is that press freedom is under pressure from threats, cuts and suspicions. Secondly, a strong, independent public media supply is a crucial building block for pluralism, free media. Both are essential pillars of our democracy and they deserve to be defended and protected. In many other countries we see the consequences if this duty is neglected and more and more often we also see in the Netherlands that this freedom is not self-evident. I am concerned about this trend and I ask the Minister to respond to it. Mr. Chairman. I come to my specific points. The first step of this legislative amendment is to adapt the procedure for consent to a new or significantly modified supply channel. The new new service procedure should not only be clearer and sharper, but also allow public service broadcasting to respond to new developments. It is right that the ACM conducts an analysis and that other stakeholders can be heard, but too long lead times hinder modernisation. I would just like to say a few words about the lead time of the legislative change on this issue itself. That is why I ask the Minister to clarify what exactly the six months he mentions as the final deadline for taking a decision on an application means. Is the decision actually final after those six months or is there still a wide range of remedies available after that? And what possibilities does he see to accelerate the overall lead time? Then there is the second amendment to this proposal, the modernisation of the appointment procedures within public service broadcasting. Inspired, among other things, by the motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Paternotte, and Mr Van der Molen, who is likely to join us, the Minister increases the distance between politics and public media organisations or supervisors and thereby reduces his own role. That is right, because political influence on the media must be avoided as much as possible. That is why I also support Mr Aartsen's proposal that there should not be such a threshold to make membership of this Chamber and that of a broadcasting administration incompatible. And there he is! In addition, I have tabled an own amendment to strengthen the independence of the regulator, the Media Commissioner, and to remove from the law the power of the minister to destroy a decision of this supervisor, thereby actually aligning the treatment with, for example, the Authority Consumer & Market or De Nederlandsche Bank. The Commissariat is responsible for ensuring the independence, pluralism and accessibility of the media and must be able to operate independently, without the destruction of the decision hanging like a sword of Damocles above it. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this amendment. The NPO Ombudsman also provides counter-power within the media. In June last year, the Minister responded positively to the suggestion that I, together with a number of colleagues who were also sitting here, should also give the NPO Ombudsman control over non-journalistic programmes. Of course, the Minister himself is not concerned with her task package, but he would discuss this with the broadcasters. Can the Minister give us an update? Because June 2018 is already a long time behind us. Mr. Chairman. The governance structure of the Star is also being adapted. I understand that the checks-and-balances are better guaranteed with a separate board and a supervisory board. However, I would like to hear from the Minister exactly what consequences he expects for the way the Star can deal with the task for which it stands. Is that going to help or does he see obstacles? Mr. Chairman. This bill also contains some technical amendments. I'm going to take a brief look at one of them. A clarification is made of the indexation of the State media contribution. In other words, we're not gonna index Star revenue, and we didn't. At least that's how I read the Minister. Can he explain how he has dealt with this in recent years? The amendment that has been tabled on this subject, of course, sounds wonderful, but it also sounds a little too good to be true. There is no need for coverage, but it does provide additional funding for public service broadcasting. Can the Minister explain how he has incorporated this into his budget over the next few years and why he is now proposing to delete or clarify this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	The reason why there has been no indexation is because there has been a long-standing legal procedure. Does Mr Sneller not think it is a crazy solution to resolve a legal conflict between the NPO and the ministry by changing the law in a way that would make the interpretation that the minister gave to the previous amendment more or less the only one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	In any case, if it is amended, this law will only apply for a further period of time and goes to trial, of which I do not know the exact status. Perhaps the Minister can clarify that about what has been going on in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Then let me ask you a different question. If Mr Sneller reads the original amendment of the Chamber, does he read it as 'hey, that indexation is only about the direct state contribution' or as 'that indexation is about state and Star contribution'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	When I read the amendment, I understand you can read it in two ways. On the one hand, you could also very well say that the prices passed on by the Star to advertisers are also rising every year with inflation and with that index. So he's already in the Star's income. Then why would you start indexing it again from the Empire?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, I come to the ban on servitude. This is a well-known phenomenon in media country, but in practice it still leads to uncertainty on a regular basis. I am still getting signals that it is unclear to the parties what is and what is not allowed. I refer, for example, to advertising for NLZIET on public broadcasting, but also to collaboration between newspapers and public media or to promoting cultural expressions such as theatre or books. There is a fear that a fine will be risked. Often the reluctance is wrong, because much more is allowed than people often think. But sometimes, of course, the Commissariat also acts. Can the Minister indicate whether he recognizes this image and, if so, how he monitors complaints about it? After all, we do not want to see a kind of chilling effect here and allow parties to ignore opportunities on the basis of misunderstandings. I'd like a response to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Let me now give the floor... Yes, some still have to wake up! Go ahead, Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr President, I got up early.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	No, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	I had a very long train journey ahead of me. I didn't realize the contribution had ended so quickly. I have a question about the beginning of Mr Sneller's speech. He mentioned a number of threats to the Dutch media landscape. Of course, we are also dealing with a number of very large foreign companies. Among other things Apple has announced to start its own streaming service here. When we tabled a motion on this last time asking the government to discuss the introduction of a levy, Mr Sneller voted against it. Does that mean D66 is against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	No. In the debates with, for example, the Secretary of State for Finance, I have always been an advocate of it, by the way, supported by GroenLinks, in order to introduce a digital service tax at European level. Recently, we called on him to make an ultimate attempt to introduce a digital advertising tax. So I see the same problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	There is, of course, a difference between the tax and the tax that we are proposing. Moreover, the Culture Council also proposes this levy. But I am pleased with this answer. Perhaps today we will come up with a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	Well, well, well. Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. It is a rather wondrous debate today. First of all, because collecting laws with already open wishes and desires tend to get somewhat messy, because there are a lot of loose points to talk about. Mr Sneller also mentioned it. Secondly, that's actually a more important reason. We're still awaiting the media letter from this cabinet. That media letter seems to have some influence on or become an influence on what we are discussing here today, because while the Chamber has been waiting for months for the cabinet's media letter and we are once again treated to countless articles in De Telegraaf, which seem to have information sooner than the opposition parties, we do not yet know what the future will be of, for example, the Star in the public order. In fact, De Telegraaf, who claims to know, says that we are going to an advertising-free public service. Honestly, the last time De Telegraaf was right too. Before the coalition came out with all sorts of measures, it was already leaking. For example, the 40 million that suddenly fell out of the sky. We are going to talk today about the indexation of the Star contribution, about the appointment of external supervisors to the Star and more of that kind of thing, while we may be told in a few weeks' time that the Star's story is over anyway. Don't get me wrong, the SP has been a big supporter of advertising-free public broadcasting for years, but it is a bit of a miraculous debate in this way. So I'd like to ask the Minister first to respond to that message in De Telegraaf. Is it true we're going to say goodbye to the Star? When will we receive the copy, in the form of a media letter? I assume for the rest of the debate that the circumstances we are discussing today are also the circumstances of a while from now on. If the Star continues to exist, is the public interest served by a government that is more remote from the Ministry? As much advertising revenue as possible, if you already accept that the Star will continue to exist, is good for the NPO and good for the Ministry. I read in the law that the current rule of the Star functions primarily as a coordination gremium. It's not like the Ministry and the NPO only talk to each other when they have a board meeting of the Star, is it? Is it really convincing that the current functioning of the Star, i.e. the amount of advertising revenue that we all bring in, is hampered by the current governance structure? I'm not convinced yet. Then there is the famous new assent procedure with amended offer........................................................................................................................................................................................ We have some questions about that too. The Minister shall take a decision on the basis of opinions from, inter alia, the Media Commissioner and the Culture Council, and interested commercial parties may respond. Fine. Now, the Minister states that it is a problem that those commercial parties, say those parties that usually say that public service broadcasting should do a little less, that it should keep a little more distance and that it should not rake in too many advertisements, as this would be at the expense of their own budget, which would not be able to react until after the draft decision and only after the investigation of the Media and Culture Commission, so that the latter two could not include the views of the commercial parties in their advice. Why is that a problem? It is the Minister who, on the basis of the opinions of the Media Commissioner and the Culture Council and the involvement of commercial parties, finally takes a decision. Why should these commercial parties be able to influence the process earlier? Why should they be able to give up all their views on something that the Media Commissioner is going to investigate? The SP isn't convinced of this. And then the Authority Consumer & Market gets another job. What consumer interest is directly served by this? After all, that is why we have the Consumer and Market Authority. Or is this mainly about the importance of the M in the Authority's Consumer & Market, i.e. the market? Thanks to the European Commission, the miraculous'substitutable offer' aspect will soon be taken into account. That is another text that everyone in the public gallery undoubtedly thinks: it is a good thing that they talk about in the Chamber. What are we supposed to do about this? Isn't this another step in the direction of public service broadcasting just to define it in relation to commercial broadcasters, just to define it as: what the market can't solve, we're going to regulate that public? Is this not an undermining of the important public task we have given to broadcasting? If we are constantly talking about the importance of a manoeuvrable, effective and rapid response to new developments, is it wise to weigh up such a new service procedure already? If the Minister has to say so often in the explanatory statement that we are really going to meet the deadline of six months, then I usually start to worry if we are going to meet the deadline of six months. If the Commission has already found that the Netherlands is complying adequately with European rules, whatever you think of those European rules, then what is the need for such a tightening-up of this new service procedure, including for regional broadcasters? It has always been clear to us that it was the intention of the legislator, in this case the House of Representatives, who voted by a majority in favour of the Van Dam amendment, he seems to be doing something today at the NPO to index the entire NPO budget. This is what I was talking about in the previous media debate. As far as we are concerned, there can be no misunderstanding about that. That the Minister is now trying to settle a legal dispute with a change of law, the SP does not consider a very nice form to be very nice. Let me simply ask: does the Minister share the view of the NPO that the amount involved will eventually reach 25 million in 2029? Does the Minister share the view that it is unreasonable to cut such a substantial amount of money on public service broadcasting, especially after the misery of all previous cabinets, especially after the nasty surprise that Sander Dekker had prepared for the minister in a deep desk drawer when he took over this beautiful post? Then why is this chosen? If the Minister does not agree with us that it is actually unreasonable, then I would like to know very precisely what text in the Van Dam amendment gives that space to give the interpretation given by the Minister to this amendment. If I take the explanatory statement, I do not think it is possible to discuss it. The Minister is talking about "just a clarification." I doubt that. So how have things been over the past few years? Has the NPO never received indexation over the whole amount, including Star contribution, and if so, why not? Was that because there was a conflict about interpretation or was that because the NPO and the Ministry agreed on the interpretation of this amendment? It is literally stated in the amendment that the Star contribution is included. That's crystal clear. Then there's something else about this indexing. Why not opt for indexation on the basis of wage and price adjustments, for example, which has also been made by the trade unions? The index is now being indexed on the basis of the consumer price index, but wage developments in the Netherlands are still lagging behind the rise in the consumer price index. We could still read it this morning. In short, you're getting less and less with your money. Based on this consumer price index, it is therefore becoming increasingly complex for public service employees to unite themselves and enforce a decent wage increase. And the Media Park isn't the most permanent workplace anyway, at least if you're under the top. The grounds for suspension and dismissal for drivers remain the same. Wouldn't this have just been an opportunity to, for example, address my favourite topic of the top incomes of directors and presenters? By making directors responsible for what happens under their leadership with tax money going to many earning presenters, we might have been able to do something about this perpetual discussion about avoidance procedures and top incomes in public service broadcasting. Why wasn't that chosen? And while we're talking about my favorite topic: where is the research that the NPO has done, among other things, in response to my oral questions about the income of the presenter of The World Running Door? Two weeks ago, I asked questions here. The minister said there's going to be an investigation. I was glad. Meanwhile, we read in Teletext and in many other places that the NPO has carried out research and concluded that the procedure approved by the NPO was indeed in accordance with the rules agreed by the NPO. Well, that was a great surprise. Why don't we get that investigation? Isn't that what the Minister promised us during Question Time? Can he give his own reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	I see Mr. Aartsen wants to interrupt, but I think you're almost at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	I would suggest that you complete your contribution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	If you say so, Mr. Chairman, who am I to not do so? Here is my final sentence: is the Minister still prepared to take action to combat this type of circumvention procedure, in accordance with my regular motions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the end, let's just agree on one thing with all of us: if you are paid by taxpayers' money, it doesn't matter whether it goes through production companies or all kinds of other constructions or through salary, but then you end up earning no more than the Prime Minister. Why? It is also paid out of taxpayers' money, and despite the fact that I rarely agree with him, he does have a very responsible profession, which is in no way proportionate to the equally important profession of presenting a talk show. That was him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. Mr Aartsen was awake very early today, I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	Absolutely. Despite the accident on the A27, I was here before Mr Van der Molen. That's an achievement, isn't it? We are doing a number of amendments together, so we can do that today!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	My train just drove, guys!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	Good. Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	In the context of reconciliation, I thought: I stand up for one of the few points on which Mr Kwint and I often agree. I think I already know the answer, but maybe he can also respond to the minister. Was Mr Kwint as surprised as I was that the investigation concerned only an investigation into BNNVARA, whereas, as in any case can be heard in the corridors and written in the newspapers, the research should also focus on a construction with the NTR and an external producer? Does Mr Kwint agree with me? In doing so, I would ask the Minister to carry out a follow-up investigation if it is not in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yeah, I'm gonna need the investigation first, so I can see what's been investigated. But I had the same reaction as Mr. Aartsen. The moment the NPO communicates on these issues, you have to be very careful with the exact wordings. If the exact wording is that there are no items found in the salary that are not in accordance with the directives... Yeah, that's right; at least, I suspect it's true. But the point is that these directives allow for this kind of circumvention procedure. So yes, I agree with you. Let us first request the report from the Minister and hear his response to it. But if it turns out that that sort of thing hasn't been investigated, it seems to me that they can get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mr Aartsen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me just say the last time that I agree with Mr Kwint on one more point, and that is that it is indeed a special debate. I think that most of our colleagues are awaiting the media letter and the vision letter on the entire new concession period and beyond. Then, of course, it is special to talk about a rather technical regulation on the media. Nevertheless, I believe that there is enough creativity in our Chamber to ask some pressing questions and perhaps also to come up with some own proposals. Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that a number of changes are proposed in the law, because it was a partially obsolete law. There are a number of elements that are no longer of this age, I think, which also cause unnecessary noise, both on the public side and on the private side of the media sector. I believe that this has already been demonstrated in one of the interruption debates with Mr Sneller: the debate on indexation. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is in favour of the bill and against a number of issues. We welcome the tightening up of the new service procedure and, of course, the attention paid to private parties. We regularly talk about the media in this house and we regularly talk about an independent and strong media sector. Of course we mean not only the NPO, but of course we mean all the newspapers and all the internet forums, and all kinds of commercial companies, which are often equally independent, equally strong and equally critical! Report and make media. That's very important. But they're under pressure. You can see that especially newspapers, but also television channels, are looking for new earning models to keep up. The last thing they could use would be a public service broadcaster which, with taxpayers' money from all of us, is unnecessarily engaging in competition. There has to be a fair playing field. In any case, in the VVD's view, it is ultimately the case that a public service broadcaster is mainly there to do business that the private sector does not pick up. Public service broadcasting should therefore focus, I think, on the core tasks. I'm sure we'll talk about that more often in the future. So I think it is a good thing to look at both the private side and the public side to get both sectors strong. This also keeps a strong and independent media landscape. Mr. Chairman. I do have a question about this new service procedure. I think it is good that the ACM is now included in this section, because it has an important role to play in this. Especially with a changing media landscape, a market that is changing rapidly and large parties that are active on it, it is good that the ACM is watching this. However, the Minister chooses that he only asks for an analysis from the ACM. I would like to know from the Minister why he is not specifically asking for an opinion, just as he does to the Culture Council and to the Media Commissioner. I think all those stakeholders are just as important. I think it is good that the ACM should also be asked for a specific opinion, so that we do not have a discussion on the Minister's assessment of that analysis, but have a specific weighting of the ACM's opinion. I'd like a response from the Minister. Another important point, as far as we are concerned, is that more distance is being created between politics, in this case the minister, and the media parties that are publicly funded. I think it is good that the Minister is no longer very actively involved in the appointments of persons in that media landscape. We know that there is more and more criticism of this, and there is also a lot of discussion about it. I think it is a good thing that this is placed a little more at a distance, because I think it is healthy for our freedom of the press and our democracy to have sufficient distance between politics and the media. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another point that I would like to make: an amendment that I made together with Mr Van der Molen, and which I have already understood from Mr Sneller's contribution, just when I came in, that he responded positively. We must avoid being too politically involved and too active in our media system. Fortunately, we have a very open media system, where every movement or movement in society can make its say and even start a public service. However, if you look at the law, you can see that there are routes for political parties, for MPs, for political party board members or for people who are employed by a political party, to start their own public service. That's something we really shouldn't want as far as we're concerned. It is therefore a good thing that grounds for rejection are added to the law; grounds for rejection which would not only enable the Minister to reject a broadcaster at the time when it is used for political gain, which will undoubtedly give rise to a very special debate in both chambers, but also in which the Commissioner can invoke a number of articles. That is why we are tabling an amendment to add these grounds for rejection. We are also loading a number of articles in the Media Act, which hopefully will ensure that politics and the media remain strictly separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	You just agreed, Mr. Kwint and Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yeah, that was twice too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	For short periods of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yeah, we're gonna stop doing that right now. I had another question. This amendment is announced as a kind of impossibility for political parties to set up a broadcasting service. Why would a political party... Let me start with the part that I do agree with, continuing that tradition. It seems unwise to me that, at the moment that Members of Parliament are in the process of legislation, they are now also on the board or on the supervisory board of a public service broadcaster. They will then be working on shaping the legislation that they will then have to comply with themselves. For that part. Then the second part. Why would it be someone who has an employment with a political party... I mean, that could be a lot. For example, that can be the receptionist at our beautiful party house in Amersfoort, to name just one thing. Why should it not sit on the Supervisory Board of, for example, BNNVARA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	The law does not formally know the legal person political party. What the Tickets Act does know are associations or foundations, where people are also employed, who submit lists for the First and Second Chambers. I have also based my amendment on this in order to ensure that there is a restriction on parties who can influence it, that is to say the people who end up here in the Chamber. I specifically did not try to undermine the right of association in this amendment. Everyone is free, including in this Chamber, to be a member of an association, including an association that is a public service broadcaster. However, I do think that it is very good for purity to avoid that people who are employed by a political party and therefore also influence the lists submitted to the Election Board and those who sit in this Chamber, at the same time, also have an active, guiding role in a public broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	Now it gets completely confusing, because that's not how lists are compiled at all. I don't know about your party, but I suspect it's going to be about the same as my party: at the time we set up a list, our members are going to talk about whether they have an employment or a contract, whether they're receptionist or treasurer or just outside the party. This amendment will do quite a different thing, won't it? Surely this amendment does not prevent those who are able to influence such a list from eventually being placed on the supervisory board of a broadcaster? At the time when my section president from Smallingerland, who is a home care worker in daily life, makes a ruling on the electoral list at the congress, he thus influences the people who eventually come to the Chamber on behalf of the SP. However, your amendment does nothing to prevent these people from eventually entering the administration of a public service broadcaster. But a form of employment has been chosen, with the specific intention of preventing political parties from starting their own broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	What has been chosen is a number of people who are actively involved in political parties. Again, a political party is something very diffuse in our order. That is why I have chosen a number of people who ultimately influence that political party. These are members of the First Chamber and the Second Chamber and board members of a political party, who are often responsible for a foundation or association. But, of course, it is also about employees at party offices. Let us not forget that they are also part of political campaigns and are often active in them. There will undoubtedly be people who say that they are not covered by any definition, but they are employed by a political party. However, I believe that the separation between politics and the media must be so severe that we must ensure that people who are active in the campaign and who have a contract with a political party do not have access to public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	Yes, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	In conclusion, I think it's getting a little messy. The first sentence of the explanatory statement to your amendment states that you want to prevent political parties from starting their own broadcasting. Then you take the text of the amendment and you see that it is not done at all. In fact, it just says that you are not allowed to sit in the Lower House or in the Upper Chamber or on the Board of or working for a political party. Then it is not just about new broadcasters, which is the purpose of your amendment, but about boards of supervision and boards of all broadcasters. Isn't this how it gets very confusing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	No, because in the end all broadcasters must apply to the Media Commissioner, including future concessions. The Board of Broadcasting and the Supervisory Board of a broadcaster shall be responsible for the application to be able to broadcast on public service broadcasting. That's one. Two. Once again, a political party is a fairly diffuse part of our political system, which means that you have to focus on those who are a crucial part of it. That is why this list has been included in the amendment. It is important that people who are active in a political party... Look, if I were to form an association with you tomorrow, quite an attractive idea, and then say that we are going to reach 50,000 members, that is separate from the concept of the political party. You are looking for people who are ultimately crucial to that political party, and that is what this amendment does. If you have any suggestions for improving this amendment, I would, of course, like to hear it. Because it seems to me strongly that you are a great supporter of VVD-TV or SP-TV or other...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	...or if you like from Thierry-TV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	Now it's getting a little confusing for me, too. 'Cause I read here that it's about running broadcasting associations. I do not read in the amendment that it is about task broadcasting or the NPO. Is it the intention that people who are members of the Lower House, for example, should be allowed to participate in a task broadcasting or in the NPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	I find that an interesting observation. Perhaps it is an even more undesirable situation if Mr Van der Molen could become chairman of the NPO while he is also in the Lower House. That is an interesting observation and suggestion. I assume Mrs Westerveld and I will probably discuss that in the corridors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	Each time you mention Mr Van der Molen as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	It's in my field of view, Madam Speaker. To stick with Mr Van der Molen, I come to my last point: the amendment that Mr Van der Molen and I have made together in relation to local broadcasting. This is undoubtedly a subject that we will soon be discussing again. It seems to me appropriate to do so in the light of the letter which, I believe, was requested yesterday or the day before yesterday. The conflict between the NLPO and the cable operators, specifically Ziggo, is now high when it comes to the question of who is paying to send the signal to our television tubes. I find it regrettable that a company which has a responsibility in it and which also pays money to the national public service broadcaster to be allowed to broadcast is actually charging the reverse of the must-carry obligation, precisely the small, local broadcasters, where the money isn't already plotting against the plinths. As a Chamber, we have already ruled on this in a motion. However, that proved not enough to oblige this particular cabler to take its responsibility and to broadcast free of charge for the localo's. This means that we want to regulate this by law now, so that there is no further discussion about it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr. Aartsen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A strong, professional, pluralistic and independent public service broadcasting is the foundation of our rule of law. Unfortunately, we are also seeing more and more examples in Europe of countries where this foundation is rapidly crumbling. Even though we can rightly be proud of our public system, this foundation is increasingly under pressure in the Netherlands. It is not for nothing that the penalty for threatening journalists has recently been increased and last Monday the national police opened the Press Security hotline. The number of incidents of violence and threats against journalists is increasing alarmingly. We're seeing increasing polarization, hate speech and fake news. A strong, independent and professional public service broadcasting plays an essential role in this too, especially now. Fortunately, there are also bright spots, for example the window programming that finally started last week. I saw nice footage of RTV Rijnmond, where the minister was a guest. There is an opportunity for renewal and improvement with the new concession period ahead. But all that has a chance of success only if we are able to stand up for our public order. My group is still very concerned about this. In that light, it has been said before, of course, that this is a bit of a weird debate, because we still don't know exactly what to expect from this new concession period. Mr. Chairman. We also have a number of specific concerns as a result of the amendment of the Media Act, which is before us today. First of all, on the issue of indexation. It's already been mentioned. As we have also explained in our amendment to this point, which has also been tabled on behalf of colleagues from the SP and GroenLinks, we note that the proposed amendment leads to reduced revenues for the national public media mission. That could even go up to 25 million in 2029. Mr Kwint has already said it. That's not nothing on a budget that's already underwater. Does the Minister agree with us? Like Mr Kwint, we expressly do not share the Minister's view that the current article would create uncertainty about the indexation clause. The explanatory statement on the current and per Van Dam amendment in 2013 modified article 2.148a states: "It is therefore a matter of clarity about the resources made available by the Empire through the media budget, which is filled by the State Media Contribution and the Star's income." Can the Minister explain again what is so unclear about this? Because it seems as ready as a whistle to me. It leaves little room for ambiguity. So we can only interpret the proposed amendment as nothing less than a disguised cut, because, as has been said, this change does indeed have consequences, at a time when we need a strong public service broadcasting system and where the same public service broadcasting system already suffers from a gap in the budget due, among other things, to declining Star revenue. This calls for structural solutions rather than disguised cuts. If our amendment fails to achieve this, unfortunately, I would like to know from the Minister how he sees this additional cut in the budget. On what basis does the Minister think that public service broadcasting can do without this amount and are we going to see this in the vision letter? Of course, the revenue of public service broadcasting also affects the people who work there: the journalists, the creators, the editors and so on. About 70% to 80% of the budget goes to their salaries and working conditions. In this context, I have another related question to ask the Minister. What is the logic behind the choice of the CPI, the consumer price index, rather than wage and price adjustments? On what basis is this not done in public service broadcasting and in other sectors financed by the public? Can the Minister give us a picture of what it would mean if we were to start with wage and price adjustments in the future? I ask this not least because the PvdA believes that people in the public sector deserve decent working conditions. For example, if an adjustment of indexation contributes to the fight against flexibilisation in public service broadcasting, I think it would be very worthwhile to take a serious look at this. Finally, Mr President. The NPO and the College of Broadcasts warn in a joint letter about the effects of the increase in the service test. Where we want public service broadcasting to be flexible and innovative, the NPO and the broadcasters point out that the proposed increase in this service test will make them less manoeuvrable because of the growing bureaucracy and the associated costs, and all of this while the European Commission has approved the current procedure and has not asked for it to be increased. Does the Minister recognise these concerns and what is his consideration of pre-empting the introduction of the service test on the view of the order by 2021? Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The public broadcaster is there for everyone, for people with different backgrounds, for every Dutchman, young and old, man and woman. That is why it is so important that public service broadcasting not only makes quality programmes and is accessible to people who are deaf or blind, but also that the productions of public service broadcasting are diverse. Just because public service broadcasting must be a mirror of society, a few years ago my colleague in the First Chamber came up with the idea of introducing a social advisory council within Dutch public service broadcasting. Such a social advisory council could ensure that the diversity of the public system is also guaranteed in practice. The then Secretary of State thought this was a good plan and wanted to work with it in a new law. So far, so good, but the elaboration of this plan in the present law does not exactly satisfy us, because in this law the social advisory council has a tiny part to play. In the event of a vacancy, the supervisors shall draw up a profile for which they shall receive input from the Board of Directors, the College van Omproppen. Then the social advisory board will also have the right to share their views on the profile, as well as everyone else. So much for the legal powers of the social advisory council in the case of appointments. During the final adoption of a profile, the appointment of the nomination committee, the selection of potential candidates and the nomination and appointment of the final candidate, this social advisory council no longer plays any role. Nor is it a wide-ranging customer panel, as our First Chamber Group suggested a few years ago. I say to the Minister: that's not a vote, is it? You don't take the people on that social advisory board seriously, do you? Above all, this role is not in line with what the then Secretary of State replied to the First Chamber, for he suggested that the social advisory council also gives an opinion on the profiles. The word "also" suggests that this council would be given more tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	We know a lot of members in this public service broadcasting. They all have associations and member councils, which are involved because they are involved in these broadcasters, and they are often engaged in discussions with programme makers and boards, precisely about the pluralism of programming. What would be the added value of such a social advisory council on top of all the members involved if you wanted to broaden it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	I understand the question. A few years ago, in the debate in the First Chamber, this was also the subject of an exchange of views. Then the suggestion was to see if you could make the social advisory board a kind of broad customer panel, which meets a few times a year and influences important documents from among others the NPO. What I would like to discuss in a moment is the role of the social advisory council, but also that of works councils, for example, in the appointment of members of the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. I had some questions for the Minister. The first question is whether the Minister knows that the Secretary of State had a broader interpretation of the Advisory Council in mind during the legal process. And what other social tasks is the Advisory Council going to have? Mr. Chairman. I come to the next point. The members of the public service broadcaster are also affected when it comes to the appointment of supervisors. The joint works councils of the NPO, the NOS, the NTR and the broadcasters have only the right to recommend candidates to the appointment committee. They therefore have the right to make a suggestion, while the intended supervisor must also stand up for their interests. The intended supervisor must check whether their bosses are doing a good job and whether the interests of the workplace and the viewer are being served. Then it's not so crazy to listen to your own staff. This shows, for example, the business community. In business, employees have the right through the works council to nominate a third of the Commissioners. This is done on the basis of Article 268 (6) of Book 2 of the Civil Code. That nomination should not be refused unless the Supervisory Board believes that that person is unfit and motivates it. It is a pity to note that employee participation in the commercial sector seems to be better regulated than in our public service broadcasting. That is why I ask the Minister why works councils have less say in the appointment of supervisors than in the business community. I also ask the Minister whether he agrees with GroenLinks that it is desirable to appoint a third of the supervisors in this way, so that more participation is given to programme makers and journalists, not the senior officials. Mr. Chairman. For some time now, and in other debates, I have also been making a point of the remuneration of the supervisory boards, whether in education or in health care or in the media. We see a tendency of well-paid supervisors. For example, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NPO receives no less than €25,000, as we read in the answers to the questions. The RPO will receive €17,500 and the NIS and the NTR €15,000. The other members also receive a large fee. That's just a lot of money. The Supervisory Board of the NPO alone gets more than a tonne. In the last annual report I could find that they met seven times that year for a regular meeting. Even knowing that you need a lot of time to prepare those meetings properly, that means a fee of several thousand euros at a time. I'll ask the Minister how he looks at that. Does he think he can explain that? Does he think it's a reasonable fee? Or could it be one less us, so that there is more money left for creators, for staff and for other things? Mr. Chairman. If we look at the original idea of supervisors, it is precisely in the public sector that there is a certain degree of control by society. Supervisors should monitor the public interest. I find it increasingly difficult to explain to the public sector as a whole that provisions to which we all contribute are often controlled by a body that may be a little too remote from society. That brings me to the point of diversity. My group reads in this amendment that the term 'function profile' is replaced by 'profile sketch'. This gives room, as the ministers write, for drawing up a profile for the Supervisory Board as a whole. That's what we read in the explanatory memorandum. This seems to be an tedious attempt to ensure diversity within the Supervisory Board. But unfortunately it is still an attempt, as we read, because we do not see it coming back into the text of the law or into the explanatory statement. GroenLinks stands for a broad diversity policy, which takes into account different similarities between people, for example in terms of gender, origin, views and age. This change of law is a calculated opportunity to also lay down legislation not only that public service broadcasting does not only show that it is for everyone in terms of programmes, but also that it is at the top diverse in composition. That is why I ask the Minister why a different composition of supervision and administration has not been included in the legislative proposal. I would point out to the Minister that we are working on an amendment to see if we can better guarantee diversity. I would ask him to take a good look at this when that amendment is sent. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few years, a lot of channels have been added. I'll mention them for a minute. These are NPO Soul & Jazz via the analogue cable, the channels NPO Plus and NPO News & Events, the website npo3.nl, the News fragment channel, interactive service menus on the digital television platforms, distribution of public content on three linear mix channels video on mobile platforms, Dispatched by order, a package of no less than twelve radio theme channels and NPO FunX Turkpop. Only that last channel was rejected by the Minister. Now we are not specifically criticising one of these honoured channels, but we are wondering what the minister thinks the core role of public service broadcasting is. What is the Minister's view of this fragmented offer? And when does the Minister actually turn down a channel? What are the considerations involved? Mr President, next item is the report (Doc. The media industry is changing fast. Production companies are being taken over, new platforms are emerging and large multinationals also want to take a tip off the media cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	I welcome Mrs Westerveld's list. Normally it was only the VVD and some other parties on the right who indicated that public service broadcasting would have to go back to the core tasks. On that list you just mentioned, we find about 8 linear television channels and 21 radio stations. You described that beautifully and you asked for the Minister's opinion. But I am actually looking for the opinion of Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks. Does she agree with the VVD that there could be a significant deletion in those channels, that it would be better, including for the quality of public service broadcasting, that it would take on the core tasks and that we would have to reduce this list to a limited number of channels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	I am not saying that public service broadcasting does not fulfil the core tasks. Public service broadcasting is doing very well; I will come to that later. We just noticed that so many channels have been added in recent years. That is why we would like to know from the Minister how he sees this, and also when a channel is rejected. So this is not so much a criticism as a question to the Minister: how does he view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mrs Westerveld is curious to see what the Minister thinks of this huge proliferation of channels. I'm actually curious to see what the GroenLinks Group thinks of this huge proliferation of channels. We have established a minimum number of channels in the law. Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance think that there is too much supply of channels? Is that supposed to be a lot less to her?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	I think this is a lot of channels. That is why I am asking the Minister, because I cannot judge very well why the Minister is allowing it and why he does not want the FunX Turkpop channel to be included. That's the minister's jurisdiction. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what his considerations are before we make our own judgement on them. I just don't really know what the underlying considerations are to allow or not allow a channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	FunX Turkpop? We've always heard of left-wing fellows: not your lineage counts, but your future. But now we are apparently going to appeal to people about the fact that they are Turks and live in the Netherlands. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	Why is that? This channel has been rejected by the Minister. I don't know what's behind that. That's what I'm asking the Minister. So I cannot say much about that, because I do not know, once again, what the considerations are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	No, GroenLinks' colleague just spoke out for that transmitter. She thinks it's a fantastic transmitter. I thought we were all Dutch and that origin didn't count, but here GroenLinks says: please, let's start a channel for Turks with Dutch tax money. Isn't that contrary to the progressive idea that your origins don't count, but your future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	I didn't hear myself say that at all. I have heard myself ask the Minister what is the reason why he has not allowed this theme channel. It is not about this particular theme channel either. It is about the underlying question of when we are allowing a new channel and when we are not, and what are the criteria for it. I do not have enough vision of this and therefore I have just asked the Minister, in a list of several channels that have been requested in the past year. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Kwint. No? Oh, you're walking towards Mr. Bosma. No, to Mr. Aartsen. The partnership's going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	I thought: now we have a nice question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck to the point that large multinationals also want to take a tip off the media cake. We have made that a point before. For example, Apple is expected to storm the Dutch streaming market soon. I think we got word of that two weeks ago. In addition to Netflix and Disney, Apple also wants to earn money spreading content. Last year, Apple earned over 235 billion euros in its products and services, which is about 250 times the total spending on the entire public service broadcasting. That's 462 times as big as RTL's entire turnover and 1,500 times as much as any revenue from newspaper ads. When a giant multinational like Apple enters the market, it has a huge disruptive effect on the rest. Where RTL, Talpa and publishers make their money with Dutch drama series, Dutch movies, Dutch documentaries, Dutch programmes and Dutch journalistic productions, streaming services like Netflix and Apple market share of these traditional media parties by broadcasting almost only foreign content. They make their money spreading American Hollywood movies and British drama series. As a result, Dutch documentary makers, film directors and programmers are getting rid of it. The Apples and Netflixen do not get much work, but risk getting the hardest hits because Dutch media organisations that do invest in Dutch productions have to nibble due to declining revenues and declining viewing and listening times. If you don't think it's going to happen this way, you should remember this: Netflix already earns as much money in the Netherlands as all the profits from cinema tickets combined. The first Dutch cinema was opened in 1906 at Damstraat in Amsterdam and Netflix only came to the Netherlands in September 2013. It is now 2019 and to our surprise the cabinet is not doing anything at all, at least we haven't heard anything yet in letters or chambers. While jobs and incomes of our talented media creators are at risk, the legislative amendment before us does not mention the accession of new foreign players. Is there not any attempt to align the law on foreign stream services and radio and TV stations? We read that there is not even a start to a proposal to introduce a levy for streaming providers. My group is concerned about this. We are curious to see what our media landscape will look like in 2030. We are disappointed that the change in the law before us means little to the rapidly changing media landscape that we are seeing. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to carry out our earlier plan of action. I have tabled a motion on this earlier to at least examine a streaming levy. I would like to point out that this type of levy is already being introduced in neighbouring European countries. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there is no time to lose. Our group also has concrete ideas on how high such a levy should be. The Culture Council has also written a number of good things about this. That is why I would like to know from the Minister whether he would like to elaborate our proposal for a streaming levy and, if so, when we hear more about it. Mr President, then there is another subject: a drafting statute. Journalism independence is a great asset, a right that we must defend to the full, as is the freedom of teachers to teach freely within the framework of the law. The law states that every media institution, large and small, public and commercial, must apply a drafting statute. Their drafting statute should establish the independence of editorial staff. This statute guarantees the rights of journalists so that they can act freely, even if it appears to be contrary to the interests of a group or of the commercial department. Criticism of advertisers or their own publisher must be possible. However, we are receiving signals that this is not always properly regulated. We are receiving reports that the Media Commissioner is not maintaining at all whether the editorial statute is actually being complied with. The only way to persuade the Commissioner to do something is by submitting an enforcement request. But it should only be media parties themselves who submit an enforcement request. If no media party is controlled, why would you, as a media party, submit an enforcement request against another media party? In short, this really needs to be better. I would like to ask the Minister why he is not using this amendment to ensure better enforcement of the editorial statute by the Commissioner. My group has also tabled an amendment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	I wonder what examples Mrs Westerveld can give when it comes to drafting regulations that would be violated, while the Commissioner does not intervene. She herself points out the point of advertisers. I think there is something else going on there, rather the opposite. I am curious to see what examples Mrs Westerveld has, which she says we will solve with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	Understandable question. For example, you could think of a broadcast or program that transmits an hour of radio sponsored. We can very well imagine that the creators have reservations about this and that they think it goes against the drafting statute. We believe that the Media Commissioner should be able to intervene when the content of such a programme goes against its own drafting regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	I understand this when it comes to public service broadcasting, for example when it comes to commercialising it. I think that is also desirable. In my opinion, the Commission is also issuing fines on this, because one penalty after the other is being imposed on the public service broadcasters. Do I understand why Mrs Westerveld would like to do the same with a private channel? I am curious as to how she sees it, because I think the point Mrs Westerveld made about the advertiser is very important. I note that we have all kinds of social splinter movements that are affecting the independence of journalism by approaching all kinds of advertisers and saying: you should not sponsor this website or this programme anymore, because they say things that hurt us a little and therefore we do not like it. I think that's exactly what should be addressed. Isn't the problem that these splinter groups are about to go to the Commission to try to get Football Inside, Veronica Inside or GeenStijl off the tube or to get the Commissioner to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	That is not our intention, of course. Media organisations have an editorial statute that lays down a number of things about how to operate independently as editors or journalists. If you have an editorial statute, that must of course be maintained. That's what we're talking about. With this amendment, we are actually explicitly instructing the Media Commissioner to maintain it. We are not concerned that certain programmes, including those of commercial parties, should be removed. We are really concerned with maintaining our own drafting statute that is in force within the editorial board itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	Finally, Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	I actually have another request for the Minister. I don't see the problem myself. As far as I am concerned, the examples are not very convincing, so perhaps the Minister can add something to that. I am, of course, prepared to see which problem it might solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	Please continue, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	I have just said that we have tabled an amendment and I am curious to see how the Minister will react. Then I'm actually already at my last point. Last year I tabled a motion which was adopted unanimously by the Chamber. In it, we asked for a roadmap to make public service broadcasting accessible to people who are less or less able to hear or see properly. Because public service broadcasting is for all of us and must therefore also be accessible to everyone. Recently there was unrest because the coverage of the shooting in Utrecht did not take sufficient account of people who are audiovisually limited. In the event of a disaster, our public service broadcasting plays a very important role in informing people, and that is precisely when information is essential for deaf and blind people. I'd like to ask the Minister if he agrees with us. What is he going to do to make sure that information is accessible to everyone the next time something unexpected happens? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to end with a compliment. In all media violence due to the emergence of streaming services, social media and new platforms, public service broadcasting manages to stand up very well. Five million people follow it and woe to the lice mother. NOS.nl is one of the most visited news websites in the Netherlands. And millions of people listen to Radio 1 and 2 every day. Every day thousands of people work at the Media Park to make all these productions. That is why I hope that the Minister will soon come up with a well-thought-out vision of media in the broad sense of the word, so that public service broadcasting can continue to play its important role in the future. I'd like to hear from the Minister when his letter is sent to us. Does he also take into account the measurement of support, including the position of local broadcasters and regional broadcasters and the position of advertising? We have already indicated that we would like children's programmes to be free of advertising. We would also like the Minister to come back to the streaming levy so that we can look forward to the future and ensure that our journalists can continue to do their job well in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to the Bosma lake on behalf of the PVV. Mr Bosma has 30 minutes' speaking time!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	I hear the pleasure in your voice, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to keep it shorter. I see that there is some nuance in my text here and there. I'll leave all that out then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	Yes, we're used to that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Chairman. The first task of a minister is to enforce the law. The first task of a representative of the people is to ensure that the law is observed. After all, why else would we drag ourselves into this building to judge laws if those laws are not respected? If laws aren't implemented, we might as well be here all day. We are talking today about some amendments to the Media Act. The Media Act is exactly ten years old. I was delighted to read back the 2008 debates, with all the brilliant things I brought in. Someone has to say it. All media spokesmen of that time made a career: Johan Remkes, Joop Atsma, Martijn van Dam, Boris van der Ham. I'm the only one standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	We can shake hands. And with pleasure and love, Mr. Chairman. But let's see if the base is right before we come up with new additions to this law. It's more like populists looking at minor technical changes and forgetting the big picture. Mrs van den Hul just said that public service broadcasting is the foundation of the rule of law. That's the best we can get. The foundation of the rule of law is the law. Joop den Uyl quite rightly wrote: "Whoever opposes the law comes to an end, paves the way for the law of the strongest. The law is the mother of freedom." Joop den Uyl wrote this in response to the Virginhouse occupation and occupation in Tilburg. You're damn right I didn't. He was horrified by that. Just as he would undoubtedly have been horrified by the demonstration that Mrs Van den Hul walked into last Saturday. A demonstration directed against my party and against another democratic party, namely the Forum for Democracy. A demonstration which also called for the murder of a democratically elected representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr President, a personal fact. I've been put on a lot of shit. I'm very distancing myself from that. The demonstration I participated in was a demonstration against exclusion, racism and discrimination. What Mr Bosma is now accusing me of, I think it goes beyond all bounds. These are grubby accusations, which I cast far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	The Labour Party is now demonstrating against the election results. That's why that demonstration took place the next Saturday after the election results. It was a demonstration against two democratic parties. And Thierry Baudet was called in for murder. "Whoever opposes the law comes to justice, paves the way for the law of the strongest." Joop den Uyl said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	Again. First of all, we have a debate here on a variety of media and not on where it was demonstrated by which Member of Parliament. We are free to do so, just as the broadcasters are free to program what they want. I would once again urge Mr Bosma not to accuse me or other participants in the demonstration of things that are far from the truth. Again, I explicitly throw that next to me. I would ask Mr Bosma to keep this kind of accusation to himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr. Bosma. Do you want to stick to today's subject and not make personal accusations against anyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	No accusations. I'm just finding that Mrs. Van den Hul was there. There is a long way from Joop den Uyl to Mrs Van den Hul and that road runs down steeply. Mr. Chairman. The foundation of the rule of law is the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	Personal fact. This is totally out of control. I ask Mr Bosma to take this back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	No, a Democrat has to respect the election results. You don't have to demonstrate against that either. Joop den Uyl would never have walked in that demonstration. Joop den Uyl would never have walked in a demonstration calling for the murder of a people's representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. Bosma, we're talking about the Media Act today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	Yes. With all kinds of pleasure, Mr. Chairman. Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	But you're calling in the demonstration. I understand that Mrs van den Hul is acting against this. I would ask you to stick to today's subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	I'd be happy to, but I had to respond to something Mrs Van den Hul just said. Again, the foundation of the rule of law is the law. This is about the Media Act. That's not just any law. It's about the grant terms. On that basis, we give billions to Hilversum. That grant is subject to conditions. A crucial element in the Media Act is Article 2.1.2. It states that the NPO provides a media offer that is a. balanced, pluralistic, varied and high-quality, b. in a balanced way provides a picture of society............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, my conclusion is that the law is not being complied with. Let us look back on the recent elections, for example. Unfortunately, I have to say that the state broadcasting has apparently become a participant in the elections and is no longer a spectator. The night before the elections, the NPO organises a kind of show trial on all its channels, with the jury being judge and executioner at the same time. Example: at De Wereld Rotert Door we saw an excited quartet, which foamed out to the Netherlands how it should vote the next day, at least no PVV and no Forum. How pluriform is one there? We see a screaming and screaming gentleman, a former candidate for the leadership of the SP. We see a presenter, a millionaire, who works for PvdA broadcasting VARA. We're seeing someone from the D66 newspaper NRC Handelsblad. And there's a lady from Rabobank, who is presented as a professor. It is not mentioned that she is a member of the D66 Election Programme Committee. We're looking at a reckoning in the left circuit. We see pure hatred. From all of us, for all of us. A question to the Minister: does the NPO also hold such show trials against left-wing politicians? If not, why not? How does that relate to the Media Act? If the people don't vote the way the NPO wants, they'll be scared. The Jinek programme must search through social media for Forum voters. Because they don't know them. Of course not, because they are unknown in their bubble. The NPO can't beat the election results. Mr. Boonman shields with the 1930s. Mrs Luyten compares Thierry Baudet with Josef Mengele, the Nazi doctor from Auschwitz. At the NPO-site Joop.nl, colleague Baudet is compared to Ceauşescu. There's a fine addition: we just shot them. As we know, the NPO stands for connection and quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	Just an enlightening question. I was Google fast and I don't watch very often The World Running Through...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	Well, it looks like Mr. Bosma made some sort of study of it. Of course, he's free to do that. But at the risk that I might have to look back at the entire broadcast: who was the SP'er who was a former candidate for leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	That was Mr. Prem Radhakishun. He once applied to be a list-taker for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	When was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	In 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	I was there. I would nevertheless advise Mr Bosma to look a little more closely at the fascinating history of my party, because I do not remember Mr Prem Radhakishun ever running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	I am very interested in the history of the SP, especially the history of origin. I like to study them. For example, Daan Monjé is a very interesting figure. But the gentleman I was talking about raised himself as the candidate-list leader of the party of Comrade Kwint. Perhaps that has never been mentioned at a member's congress or whatever, but he has said that he would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	It has not happened, is actually the conclusion that Mr Bosma draws here in a slightly longer wording. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	He's set himself up as the leader of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	It is a good thing that only the Media Act states the requirement to share fair and balanced information and that this does not apply to elected representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	If Mr Kwint has any further questions about the history of the SP, I would like to answer them. When my group leader is interviewed by EenVandaag just before the elections, we see the presentation lady with swollen veins and red face interviewing Geert Wilders. He's not supposed to finish a sentence, a bit like you treat a criminal, which makes sense, because people who think differently soon see them as criminals at the Media Park. On YouTube we see the movies in which this lady interviews other politicians, and yes: this lady makes Jesse Klaver turn off all his climate cape undisturbed, no critical question, nothing, no swollen veins but entertaining chatter from left-wing people to each other. WNL seems to be a right-wing broadcaster, but it doesn't even invite the PVV to his election debate. We'll see Paul Rosenmöller. Our children must also believe in it. If the jihadist Hamas wants to invade Gaza with molotov cocktails, missiles and weapons in order to kill as many Jews as possible, the reporter of the Youth Journal explains that this is about parents with children suffering from poverty. She seems to want to say, "They're just gonna come over for coffee, you know." It's like Mrs Karabulut of the SP is the reporter. It wouldn't make much difference. In fact, he'd do a lot better. They also refuse to vote the way the NPO wants them to. The NPO has developed a sick hatred against the President of the United States. A pathological, utterly irrational, all-encompassing hatred. Name the name "Trump" and the Mediapark gets a red blur in front of the eyes and starts screaming. The NPO cannot bear to think that its own candidate, the bizarre corrupt Hillary Clinton, has lost and that Saint Obama is gone. And the NPO may be involved in the biggest journalistic scandal of the last 50 years, the so-called "collection." President Trump would work intensively with Russia. How many hours of News, Jinek, The World Running Through, One Today and the Journal were dedicated to this? How many tax millions were burned by this? Highlight was the Journal that opened with twelve minutes about Trump having himself peeed in a hotel room in Moscow by Russian prostitutes. There was supposed to be video footage of him and he could resign at any moment. The journal was in total euphoria. A blind horse could see it was bullshit. The source wasn't right. He worked for Hillary, and in the past that used to be a journalistic criterion, for example when I was still working at the NOS Journal myself. Eventually Trump wasn't pissed, but the viewer of the Journal. Anyway, the left-wing lie is more fun than the truth. As Roderick Velo of RTL News writes: "The journalists and media people who have the greatest hoax in history are not ready to repent or shame is long past." The same applies to the most recent scandal at the NPO involving Mr Van Liempt. On Saturday we read a crystal clear article by Frits Barend about plagiarism, showing off other people's feathers, shocking. He can just sit there, but if Hans Kraay senior, soccer commentator at Studio Sport, says he can support the LPF, he can immediately take his weight, immediately and then. Mr. Chairman. We know the biggest housing shortage in the Netherlands since World War II. Why is that? Well, first of all, through the Syrian exodus to our country. How did they get here? Well, by an NPO campaign. The NPO came up with a special evening action broadcast. D66 Madame and NPO boss Mrs Rijxman spoke of "mercifulness."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	I'm looking for a connection to the bill, but it could be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	Yeah, that's what I think my pages started, but I'm gonna end up on it, too, so then it all becomes clear, Mr. Chairman. Then all the pieces of the puzzle fall apart. So the NPO came up with a special evening action broadcast. D66-ma'am and NPO boss Shula Rijxman spoke of "mercifulness" and we saw Jeroen Pauw doing a stand-up for the photo of a dead boy on the beach. The NPO organized a cartload of BN'ers who demanded the exodus under the heading "Do you feel called?'. As a result: 80,000 Syrians to the Netherlands who never leave, who are not going to build their own country. The Dutch pay the bills for their homes, their benefits, their Miele washing machines. Thank you, Mrs Rijxman, we will pay for your mercy! The NPO has a history of molesting children. For example, the Mauros, or the children of the children's pardon, the Iraqi boy Nemr or Lili and Howick, who are driven from studio to studio to milk the sentimentality. Lili and Howick, for example, were referred to in the Journal as 'the faces of the years of asylum'. But an asylum procedure lasts for years, the family had gone through seven or eight different, totally unopposed residence procedures. So it's not the victim of bureaucracy, but it's trained the place endlessly. See also the beautiful program 27,000 faces, about 27,000 pathetic refugees, some of whom proved to be war criminals. For example, George Sid Ahmed. In the 27.000 face film he had lied to each other for a lifetime: name, age, family, education, country of birth, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Children who are used as crowbars to open borders. And never a critical question, ever: "But why didn't you care about all those judgments of the judge?" Emo-journalistic or rather emo-activism. The NPO is the PR department of the asylum industry. It'd rather choose the left-wing lie than the truth. Their mercy is costing us billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	I am increasingly bewildered to listen to the input of the PVV Group in this debate. I really do not see any, but I do not see any connection with the legislation before us today. So I would like to ask Mr Bosma the following. Is this going somewhere or can we draw out the rest of the input and is it the same string we have heard for the past twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	In fact, it's the same rigging I've been turning off for the last 12 years. I'll try to explain one more time. If you are aware of the rule of law that public service broadcasting is the foundation of the rule of law, such as the Labour Party today, then you are wrong. The law is the foundation of the rule of law, Mrs Van den Hul. It is our bitter task as representatives of the people to see if the law is being implemented. My argument, which I support, is that the law is not being implemented. It is our bitter duty to do so here as members of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	Mr Bosma himself states that he has been turning off this same story for 12 years. That could be called a grey record, but I am always looking forward to Mr Bosma's contributions because they are always entertaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	He has funny jokes and jokes and fun examples. I have to tell you, I have to keep my smiles down on a regular basis. But if I want to laugh, I'll go to the theater and buy a ticket for the cabaret. I think we're here in the Chamber to actually change things for our country. My question to Mr Bosma is therefore in fact the following. Last time we had a media debate, he walked out of the room when motions were tabled. Are we going to have decent proposals today to deal with all the problems that Mr Bosma has just raised, whether or not they are true? That's our job here in the Chamber, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u110	I believe that today we must determine the moral bankruptcy of the VVD. Mr Aartsen is laughing at what I say, but it is bitterly serious. I'm telling you about all these things that go wrong with our taxpayers' money, how opinions are influenced and how the law is not implemented. Mr. Aartsen should take that seriously. I just mentioned the treatment of the Media Act in 2008. Then the VVD was represented by Mr. Remkes. With Mr. Remkes, I could hang out. Mr Remkes had an eye for the fact that the law was not implemented in this case the very left-wing character of the NPO. Mr. Remkes understood that. It's such a shame the VVD doesn't have someone who sees that anymore. People on the right used to want to see that. But yes, the VVD ended up on the left, just like at Marrakech and just like at the climate crisis. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u111	The big difference between the VVD and the PVV in this case is that Mr.Bosma is only walking around in this building to do fantastic funny and funny stories, but at the end of the line three times nothing nada noppes gets done. The VVD will always make proposals here to ensure that problems we see will also be resolved. So my question to Mr Bosma is whether he is going to come forward with proposals now. Does he come up with proposals today to deal with, for example, with the Ombudsman, the excesses that Mr Bosma sketches? Then the VVD goes along with that. Then we'll work on that together. Or are we just going to get part two of this political cabaret, in which Mr. Bosma plays the leading role?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u112	The VVD says she's taken care of things. What has the VVD been doing in the media field for the past 20, 30 years? Nothing at all. The media landscape and certainly the NPO are exactly the same. The VVD hasn't handled anything. I'm going back to the foundations. I'm going back to the story: is the law being implemented or not? That is the most fundamental question a Member of Parliament can ask. It is our duty to do so. Why doesn't the VVD do that anymore? Why is the VVD fleeing into all the details about ombudsmen, who are not going to change anything at all? The foundation is no good. That needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u113	I would like to look forward to the PVV's proposals. We've got an hour or so to go, I think. I wonder what Mr Bosma is coming up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr Bosma mentions a selective list of people who are invited, because his own party leader was also in the NPO debate. Mr Baudet was in Buitenhof several times. At WNL almost only right-wing politicians appear. His own colleague was at Jinek last week to tell us about the hotline. If Mr Bosma wishes to mention a list, I would ask him to be complete and also to indicate how often politicians from right-wing parties join the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u115	It's frighteningly little. In everything that happens you see that the foundation of the coverage, of the questions, of the starting points, is always the left-wing story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr. Chairman. The NOS tried to convince us that the children's pardon was only 700 children. Now we see that at least 2,500 people are involved. Another disaster for Dutch taxpayers. The NPO campaigned for the Arab Spring. Nonsense. Now the NPO is campaigning for flight shame, and that is again the modern left-wing church. I especially suffer from NPO shame, especially when I look at all those BNs flying around the world, mostly with the cover that they want to make us aware of the climate and the environment. Travel agency NPO. Weathermen who can't even predict if I have to bring an umbrella on Saturday, tell us what the climate will be in a century if we don't catch the train soon. The NPO is also very diverse, or anti-white racism. That's why all kinds of black-racial activists get an open cloth at the NPO. Never a critical question. Never be contradicted, not even when white people are accused as a group of things, something we call racism. For years the ethnodwepers are allowed to drain over their hatred of our precious Black Piet, for example with Mr. Pauw. Never but never will a supporter of Black Piet be given the floor who simply tells the truth about the sympathetic child friend. We can follow through Twitter how activists determine what Holland is being told. One activist presents the NOS-Journaal and the other activist takes action on the street against Zwarte Piet, and one commits the other to change the coverage. Because the NPO is also of diversity, they have put someone at work at the Media Park who is counting immigrants all day long, because too many whites in the state broadcasting, we must not want that. That's where they find a person's skin tone, because according to the diversity pushers, immigrants are nowadays piously referred to as "people with a migration background" • Apparently recognizable by their appearance. For example, we learn from the NPO Ombudsman's report that the guests of the Pauw programme are 91.2% of ethnicity in the Netherlands, whatever that may be. 1.5% of the guests have "western" ethnicity. The Sibbens of the NPO have observed that 4.4% of the guests have non-Western ethnicity. Minister, how does the NPO know someone's an immigrant? What exactly are the external characteristics? Can you explain that? Why should the number of people with Dutch ethnicity, whatever that may be, be reduced? What did they do? Why does the NPO want less white people? I'd like an answer. We see how the NPO runs like a blind dachshund behind diversity pushers and the social justice warriors. Illegals, people who do not belong here at all, now call the NPO "undocumented." And slaves are called "slaves." All American identity politicians are copied one-on-one by the NPO. They are the enslaved. The NPO no longer speaks of whites but whites. According to the editor-in-chief of the journal, they do so because "white" as opposed to "black" has a positive connotation. No research supports that, and according to the Fat Van Dale, it's just bullshit. There is a deep desire for racism at the NPO, i.e. racism by white people. They like to make a message about that and they open the news with it. Otherwise, it would be if we could get to know the negative results of the open border policy. Then the cloak of love is always ready. "Young people cause nuisance in swimming pool in Dordrecht." "Young people throw fireworks at the police in Channel Island." Strange, then the ethnicity is suddenly absent. We also see it in Islamic attacks. In London, when a Mohammedan kills eight people, the cry "this is for Allah" is carefully omitted. Our people are knowingly left in the dark. We must not know how the greatest change in our society since the Middle Ages, namely the Islamic mass immigration, has turned out for our people. We must endure it patiently. In fact, we have to cheer for it, because at last, we have diversity. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Gelukkig hebben we Opsporing Verzocht nog.]] Mr. Chairman. The Home Secretary, Mrs Ollongren, has launched a new definition of fake news. I quote: 'it is about a sender who deliberately or unconsciously creates and distributes false or misleading information for the purpose of influencing public opinion'. Mr. Chairman. I don't want to make it worse than it is, but the NPO regularly turns to producing fake news. See Trump, see Black Piet, see pathetic illegal children, see Arab Spring, see fly shame, see Prem Radhakishun. That left-wing lie over and over again. I have some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u118	Before you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u119	I have some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr. Kwint, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u121	Such an open, asking attitude, of course, I very much welcome. I'm a little confused. The first half of Mr Bosma's speech, well, we will not agree, but at least I will try to assess it on consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u122	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you. It's about a lack of diversity. It's just the same left-wing politically correct story, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You added 74 examples. The second story is: the NPO is only concerned with diversity. My central question is this. Is your objection mainly in the pursuit of diversity, or is your objection mainly that the diversity sought is a little too narrow, in order to put it equally positively?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u124	Unfortunately, the NPO explains the concept of "diversity" as a racial thing. There's someone out there counting skin color, something else can't be. I don't think it's relevant what the colour of the presenter or the reporter is. I was named after Reverend Martin Luther King Jr., who dreamed of the day that children would be judged "not on the color of their skin, but on the content of their character." It's April 4th today. That day, he was killed. At the NPO they clearly opt for racial considerations when it comes to whether people should appear on the screen. I think it's called racism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u125	That's a very long answer to a question I didn't ask. Is the problem diversity an sich or is the problem... Let me rephrase: do you think that the NPO pays too much attention to diversity or do you think that the NPO actually pays too little attention to diversity and that the NPO should simply define it a little more broadly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u126	Well, Mr Kwint is asking a clear question. He uses the word "diversity" twice, but it has two different meanings. The way the NPO uses it, the way the left-wing church uses it, is: the fewer white people, the more diversity. That's how it's used by the left-wing church. Again, I don't think skin color is important, completely uninteresting, completely irrelevant. It would be good and in accordance with the Media Act if broadcasting complied with Article 2.1.2 of the Media Act. This concerns 'balanced', 'an image of society', 'pluriformity', 'accessible to all'. It would be good if the NPO would pay particular attention to one diversity, namely the diversity of opinions. And I don't see it. I see only the same politically correct line in Hilversum. I hope that's an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u127	I think that Mr Bosma needs to get out of the woods with the profile after the disappointing election results for the PVV. I understand that, but it might be a little late. At some point it was so much with so much negativity that I felt I should shower after the debate. I felt a little dirty after that sum of things. But like everyone else, I have to laugh about it every once in a while. Let me also try to ask what should happen. I'm gonna take a look at RTL. That should be an alternative to the NPO. That is what the Jensen programme is being programmed for, which you are most likely to have some more positive words for, given the people who are invited to it. On the other hand, they program programs from the Postal Code lottery, which transfers millions to The Clinton Foundation. What should happen to the NPO, what should we agree today, that you could force more programmes like Jensen, for example, to be broadcast, assuming that you think that is a good programme? I'm just looking for what you'd like to arrange today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u128	That Mr Van der Molen wants to take a shower is up to him. I don't have an opinion on that. He asks me questions about RTL, but the Media Act is primarily about the NPO. We give them as government, no, they give the government money and that is subject to restrictions. That's what we call the Media Act. RTL is just a commercial broadcaster. The legislator hardly has a relationship with that. Things are mentioned, but it is primarily about the NPO, because it gets money from the government. So I do not find statements about how RTL does it interesting. I would like to talk to Mr Van der Molen about RTL's editorial policy or about De Groene Amsterdammer or about De Gooi and Eemlander, but it is simply completely irrelevant to this debate. On the third point: what should we enforce? I'm just establishing that the law isn't being enforced. I do not think it is the job of representatives of the people to micromanage broadcasting and say: this programme is and this programme is not. As Members of Parliament, we simply have to look at the end result and ask ourselves the very simple question of principle: is the law being implemented? In my humble opinion, although I still have 45 minutes of examples, this is not happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u129	I fully agree with Mr Bosma that we should not micromanage public service broadcasting. I had only gotten the idea from the litany of very small, specific examples of the last few minutes that at least you are carefully looking at where things are going wrong. That's your right. I've got my own ideas on that, too. Only, I do not always spit them, because I think that public service broadcasting should still find its own way, without having an opinion on them. There's a big difference between us. My question is: what should happen if that law is to be implemented better? Is that more supervision? Do you need to intervene more often? Do we have to have more debates about it here? Should the minister have an appointment on presenters? What is the fact that you might propose to keep the NPO to its public task? 'Cause I think you're walking around it all the time. Then I agree with Mr Aartsen: in the end, you will spend 12 years displaying your own TV pattern, but you will not end up doing anything that will bring you a bit of fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u130	It's not my job to bring fun programs closer to me. Again, it is up to us, House of Representatives, to judge whether the law is being implemented. Yeah, I have fantasies about what my favorite channel would look like. But that's totally irrelevant, it's totally irrelevant. I have only one task of principle, and that is simply to assess the end result. It is actually impossible to force another course from Hilversum, as Mr Van der Molen says. We shouldn't want that at all. That's not up to us. Our task is only one: is the law implemented? In the past, all kinds of MPs criticized all kinds of programmes and so on. That's all monkey. It's about the bigger story: is the law being implemented or isn't it being implemented? My point is: the law is not being implemented. I support this with a number of examples, some of which I have just given and some others will give.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u131	I understand, then, how it can be that all kinds of Members of Parliament who have actually managed to do something here about public service broadcasting have left, if Mr Bosma's line is: I can stand here for 12 years, say everything that is wrong, knowing that it will never be any different and that there is no way to fix it. Yes, then you can continue with a gray album endlessly. But I would say: do not burden every debate with that. Pick up a video and send it out yourself. 'Cause in the end, you're not gonna get anything done. In the end, that is also the main criticism of the PVV: knowing very well where it is wrong, but having no idea how it should be dealt with. I'm interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u132	But what did the CDA do all these years? The CDA used to be a right-wing party; at that time it was understood a bit. But what did the CDA do? Surely that has never affected the great Titanic that is the NPO to ensure that it exhibits a pluralistic image? The NPO has its own course. I do not think it is the task at microlevel to micromanage the NPO, the network. That's not our job. We shouldn't want to. That's more like North Korea. We just need to assess the end result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u133	I believe that Mr Van der Molen had a sensitive point to make when it comes to the PVV, because Mr Bosma is starting to stumble, as I do not know him at all. But my question is about the one task we have here to see if the law is being implemented. At the same time, I believe that Mr Bosma wants to change the law considerably. I can't quite reconcile that. Then it is important that the law as it is in front of him be implemented. But then the PVV proposes in its election programme: no money to the network. Then how are they supposed to carry out that task?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u134	Well, that makes sense; the colleague is actually already answering it. If the law is not implemented, you have to stop subsidising. That goes for every playground association. If a playground association gets money for swings and does something completely different with them, the municipality says: sorry, you don't spend it on what it's meant for, you violate the grant conditions. The same applies to the Ministry of Defence, it applies to very large projects and very small projects and so it also applies to broadcasting. If you don't comply with the law, you just don't have to pay the money to you anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u135	Well, that's just a serious lack of duty from the PVV, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u136	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u137	...our job is to ensure that the law is implemented. We will make that impossible if we introduce the PVV program.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u138	No, the law is not being enforced. It is the role of broadcasting to ensure that the law is implemented and it is the duty of the Minister to ensure that it is implemented. I find it very simple that the law is not being implemented. I give many examples of this. I'm willing to add a lot more. The law is not being implemented and so you have to reason very simply as a clean public administration does: the law is not being implemented, the grant conditions are not being met, so no more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u139	Then Mr Van der Molen was absolutely right not to have any concrete solution. It is only made definitively impossible by the PVV to actually implement the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u140	Since 1925, the NPO has not yet been able to enforce the law. That's almost 100 years. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions. For example, how many climate realists does the NPO talk? How many supporters of Black Pete? How many opponents of the Syrian exodus to the Netherlands? How many of Trump's supporters? How many Islam critics? How many opponents of the EU? Mind you, on all these subjects, the Netherlands opts for the right-wing position. But with the NPO you especially hear the politically correct sound. The NPO is the voice of politically correct The Netherlands, the church of diversity and sustainability. Why does the NPO wring in all sorts of turns to pull non-whites in front of the camera and count ethnic non-westerners, whatever that may be? But why do you never hear them at the NPO about the real diversity, namely the presence of non-left opinions? Why the obsession with skin color and not content? The Media Act refers to diversity of opinions rather than diversity of race. I predict the Minister will not answer me. Because if he does, he should admit that the law is not being implemented, and that is very serious. Mr. Chairman. There is a critical consumer who closely follows the NOS Journal. That's war reporter Arnold Karskens, who's been shot at all over the world. He has done empirical research on the Journal and that extends far beyond the anecdotics with which I have bored you this morning it is almost noon now. His conclusion is that Dutch political parties and presidents who do not approve of the NOS editorial are treated unfairly. Karskens is even pressing charges against the Journal. Mr. Chairman. May I present the Minister with a recent report by Mr Karskens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u141	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a last speaker, especially after Mr Bosma, it always feels like such a person who still has to go where no one has any appetite after dinner. But I'll try to do something else and I'll try to work something out today, because that seemed nice to me too. However, we will see at the end of the vote whether we have succeeded. Mr. Chairman. The Minister told us as a Chamber that he is busy with a vision letter on the future of the media. Those are really big things, so that's what we're waiting for together. I wish the Minister good luck with the last pieces of work, because I think it is coming pretty quickly. I certainly hope so, because we, as CDA, are very much looking forward to it. Today we have a bill to amend the Media Act in which we try to arrange a few small things, but they are very important things. That is a good opportunity to fix a few points, which actually cause or might cause a problem, with each other in this Chamber today. That is why I want to table two amendments together with the VVD. The first amendment is the one Mr Aartsen has referred to. I'll just mention his name a few times, he did it with my name. Mr Aartsen, once again Mr Aartsen, has tabled an amendment to the effect that political parties cannot have an undue influence on the boards of broadcasters, something that Mr Bosma, of course, quite rightly says, should try to keep the political colour out of it as much as possible. But above all also to cut off calls made by other parties in this house to set up their own broadcasting. I think that's a very sensible one. I am very curious to hear the Minister's opinion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I have also tabled another amendment with Mr Aartsen on a very practical matter. That is a small thing in itself, but something that often affects a lot of volunteers in the Netherlands who work for a local broadcaster with a very limited budget. It would be very nice if we could do something about that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u145	That second amendment, which you tabled together with Mr Aartsen, I think is an excellent one. Compliments for that. But I have a question about the first amendment. Because in a sense, Mr Van der Molen says: we must keep the political colour as far as possible out of public service broadcasting. Is this an advance from the CDA on the publication of the Media Letter? For, in my view, the neutrality of our public system has always been defined by pluralism so far, namely the possibility of joining and leaving different opinions to speak. Is the CDA gonna say goodbye to that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u146	No, because that's two different things. There are public broadcasters representing a social movement. Let me say: the NCRV represents the Protestant movement, with all its views and social appearances. In the past, the VARA represented the social democratic movement. But that doesn't make them a party yet, and it doesn't make a party a broadcaster. But it is true: there is a Social Democratic Party and a Christian Democratic Party. The AVRO, who wanted to program fairly neutrally and very often had feelings with liberal parties, does so. But they represent a social movement, which we see here in this house. I think that is the very nice thing about public service broadcasting, which can be done in a country like the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u147	But where does that desire come from to provide that social movement, whether it is materialized in a public service or in a political party, with a strong shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u148	Quite simply: because at the moment when the border between broadcasting and party is about to fade, we are on a sliding scale and we do not want that. The fact that a social movement can broadcast via a public service broadcasting system and that at the same time there is also a party that supports the same ideas, because that is how it has developed in the Netherlands, is fine with us, but at the moment when a political party in this house wants to organise a kind of mouthpiece for itself in public service broadcasting, party and broadcasting go together, and that is undesirable. That is why we would like to lay down further provisions in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u149	I would like to ask you a question about the detailed rules. I have already put a question to Mr Aartsen. When it comes to membership of both Chambers, I can support this amendment anyway. It seems extremely undesirable to me that the legislator should set itself frameworks for its own side functions. But are the administrative function and the employment of a political party decisive arguments why one should not have an administrative function in a public broadcaster if one simply works at a party office and ensure that every day all mail is neatly placed in the boxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u150	There are more people with different functions working with a political party, not just people who do something essential like mail delivery, receiving people or all kinds of other things. That could go a lot wider. It can also be about people who influence the policies of a particular party. I think you should see this part of the proposal in particular in such a way that when you do not appoint it, there are all kinds of detours where de facto there is no longer a representative of a party, but someone who is paid by a party that establishes a broadcaster. Then you need to see which meshes you could remove. That is why this group is being extended to include this specific category.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u151	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr. Chairman. The CDA considers it important for local broadcasters to be able to operate properly and to have a sufficient budget to ensure that there is adequate media coverage. But as the Minister knows, and as we have discussed a lot in this Chamber, a lot of local broadcasters are under pressure, because their budgets are very small and because, for example, municipalities do not transfer budgets. Earlier, together with the spokesperson of the Christian Union, I proposed imposing an obligation on municipalities to transfer the contribution to local broadcasters. I would like to know from the Minister what the state of play is. In particular, the amendment we are tabling is aimed at reducing the double cost of signal transmission, in particular the double cost of charging cable giant Ziggo to local broadcasters. It charges for one transfer, through a number of intermediate steps, double costs each time. We do not think it acceptable that a local broadcaster with a very limited budget should spend twice as much for the simple fact of showing a programme to someone on the screen. We have also adopted a motion in the Chamber on this. We really have the impression that there is no movement in the discussion between the enormous Goliath and little David, the local broadcasters, to meet them. Then it is our job as legislator to regulate it in the law so that we eliminate these double costs. We are trying to put that into the law in a technical way, but so that everyone understands what we want with it, namely to reduce double costs for local broadcasters, who run on volunteers and who have a small budget. I am very curious whether the Minister can support that particular proposal. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the changes on the part of the government. The CDA understands the choice to tighten up the procedure for the Minister's agreement with a new or significantly modified channel of supply. For example, a market impact analysis carried out by the ACM allows for a better assessment of potential market effects. Once the new service has been introduced and developed, can the Minister indicate what possibilities there are for re-assessing whether it does not lead to undesired disruption of the market organisation? The CDA further questions whether interested parties will have an additional moment to express views in the tightening up process. Can the Minister indicate how the proposal leaves room for hearing again, for example when the NPO or the broadcasters would like to introduce something? And can the Minister explain again why he chooses to tighten up as from this bill and not just from the new concession period? The CDA also welcomes the proposal to modernise the procedures for appointments to supervisory boards and boards. The CDA wishes to reiterate the importance of the independence of the Commissariat from politics in the appointment, reappointment and dismissal of members of the Commissariat. The Minister proposes that the Commissioner's independence from the Minister be highlighted. He sets out in the explanatory statement how he sees it. Can the Minister confirm that this interpretation ensures that no unwanted interference can occur in the appointment, reappointment and dismissal of members of the Commission? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the waiver of the subtitle requirement. This is important for people who cannot hear and want to get it through subtitles. The Commissariat may, in special cases, waive all or part of the percentage of the subtitling requirement for a public media service. However, the Commission cannot do this for commercial media services. In the legislative proposal, the government proposes to align this, so that the Commissariat can also grant an exemption for commercial media services. The CDA considers pluralism of the media supply and attention to companies that produce themselves, but the same applies to ensuring as much accessibility as possible to the media supply. The CDA can therefore only propose a total or partial exemption in some special cases, for example in the start-up phase of a media service, but not forever. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that this possibility needs to be dealt with critically and that only in a few cases can an exemption be justified? The Minister also indicated that the Commissioner could impose conditions and draw up criteria for the waiver given. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Commissioner that the importance of accessibility must be taken very well into account when drawing up these conditions and criteria? Last year, the Chamber adopted a motion calling on the government, together with the target group and the NPO, to draw up a roadmap to make relevant programmes, such as, for us, national events, with the death remembrance on 4 May, accessible also to people with audiovisual disabilities. GroenLinks talked about this as well. In doing so, I have a specific question as to whether the remembrance of the dead on 4 May will be accessible to people who wish to follow the remembrance of the dead on TV. Mr President, the final point. The current Media Act states that, on a television programme channel, the programme offer consists of at least 50% of the duration of European works within the meaning of Article 1 of the European Directive. In special cases, the Commission may temporarily grant partial exemption from that requirement to a commercial media institution. This has an impact on the European and also the Dutch markets of offering Dutch media. The government indicates that in current practice there are commercial television channels which are structurally not achieving the 50% rate. In order to keep the Dutch market also accessible to commercial niche channel providers, the Government therefore proposes that it should also be possible to grant a structural exemption from that 50% European production rule in special cases. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this could benefit the pluralism of our country's media supply and locational environment? Can the Minister indicate what conditions and criteria will apply? Is the niche channel really bringing added value to justify a structural exemption? Will no structural exemption be granted if no added value has been demonstrated? Mr President, those were our questions. We are very curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u154	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour, until about 12:40. We are going to do the regulation first and then the Minister will have the opportunity to respond to the questions and the amendments.
