ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV. She asks a question about the bankruptcy of the IJsselmeer hospitals to the Minister for Medical Care. I would also like to welcome the Minister. I call Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The business of the bankruptcies of the IJsselmeer hospitals is getting crazier every day. I quote jaw surgeon Pieter Steinmetz: "I have been in care for 34 years and have experienced the necessary experience with Doctors Without Borders, but in the midst of a patient's treatment by a six-man delegation, including two guards, as a criminal is summoned to leave the hospital, I have never happened." I quote the same jaw surgeon: "Tuesday the curator came by with five men, while I was just treating patients under anesthesia. I had to shut down my computer right away and leave. I said it couldn't, it's obstruction of patient care, the safety was at stake, my patients would suffer. (...) Eventually I was allowed to finish the operation, while two men watched security over my shoulder. Scandalous! (...) They even searched me. I had to drop my pants, for God's sake. Very intimidating." Mr. Chairman. I also quote rheumatologist Paul Baudoin: "I would recruit patients for a new provider of rheumatic care." In an attempt to support that accusation, one of the rheumatic nurses was chased outside the walls of the hospital, says chairman Josien Veris of the new provider in question. On behalf of the curator, the lawyer in question wanted access to the nurse's private home computer in order to determine whether there had been any connection between the patient's data. The nurse did not stop the lawyer until she had received legal support from her new employer via the car. In contrast to patients, the hospital informed them that the appointments had to be cancelled due to private circumstances and technical problems. The rheumatologist says: I could laugh about it, but it's not nice for my patients; they're now being told why I'm not here. What did the hospital do next? The curator sent a letter to the patients of the rheumatologist last week warning that he might have gotten their data wrongly. My question to the Minister is: what the hell is going on here? How is it that he's still on this file, after all these months, so out of control that this hustler with patients is going on right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema refers to an article on Skipr. I read that article, too. I have asked the curator again in preparation for these oral questions. The curator considers that the doctors referred to by Mrs Agema have not complied with the rules for the protection of personal data. That's a matter between a curator and a doctor. This has been reported to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, because it is a privacy issue. It's about a data breach, according to the curator. I think it's in the right place there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. What is really going on is that the curator has already sold the patients to another hospital. That's what's going on. And those patients don't want to go to that other hospital at all. The patients want to go with the rheumatologist they've been with for sometimes 20 years. That rheumatologist happened to have started a new practice 100 meters away from the old hospital. There are all declarations of consent from all those patients who want to join the rheumatologist, and even more specialists. And what does the curator do? He's gonna send ugly letters. So this curator doesn't send a letter to the patients with the question: do you really want to go to that other hospital or do you want to stay with your old specialist? No, she just sold the patients to another hospital. She sends strange letters to patients to scare them that everything is going on with their medical records which they have given to their old doctor themselves with consent certificates. The free choice of doctors is also at stake here. It is these patients who decide for themselves which doctor they go with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	I did not hear a question directly in Mrs Agema's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	You may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'd be happy to. I'm abstaining from the word "patting." I don't use that word. In my opinion, there is no question of the free choice of doctors being at stake. The patient can stay in Lelystad; he can also go to another provider. Of course, the patient's personal data when he goes to another provider should pass along with the patient's consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	There is such a bizarre game being played here. There's even a doctor who had to let his pants go! He had to lower his pants, because there are five guards in front of him, because the security guards look over his shoulder during surgery, while his patients just want to stay with him. The patients who sell the curator to St. Jansdal. That's another word for rapture, but it does mean the same thing. It means that patients are sold to another hospital, while they want to stay with their own doctor: Article 13. While they have also given their own doctor permission for that data. While the curator does not give the data to the new provider, to the new institution to which the rheumatologist belongs. So the patients give permission, they want to go to the new location, they just want to stay with their own doctor. And what does the curator do? He's gonna send mean letters with lies in them, scare people. My question to the Minister is: how is it that he remains so terribly powerless and still does not stand up for patients, even though he says he does? He just sits here on his hands. What is the Minister going to do about this situation for these people, who simply choose their own rheumatologist and whose data need to be transferred,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	... to solve in a few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	I also want to abstain from terms such as "selling patients." I won't use that kind of terms. I repeat, the free choice of doctors remains. The patient can stay in Lelystad. This applies to both disciplines identified in Skipr's article. The patient can also go to another provider. In that case, with his consent, the data shall be transferred to another party. In this case, the quality or safety of care is not at stake. I checked with the inspection. No reports were received there. I think that's the right message.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs. Agema, you're really long over... You have an actual point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yeah, an actual point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	I'll hold you to that. I look you in the eye. Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yes, it's an actual point that patient care has been sold by the curator to another hospital. I think it's really wrong that the minister here should...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	Then you've made your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	...by saying it's not. It's true. It's actually right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, then I will go to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	We're just seeing a vulgar wild-west fight here for the patients, at the bankrupt estate of the IJsselmeer hospitals. It's all about money. The freedom of choice of patients is sacrificed. Two curators are in charge there. They declared 7 tonnes in four months. 7 tons in four months. It's all about money. What does the Minister do? He's gonna stay put. He's looking away. He's not doing anything. That's impossible, isn't it? I actually only have one question for this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	Which is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	Is he going to perform or resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	In my opinion, there is no wild west battle. I checked with the curator what the curator says is going on. The curators consider that these two doctors, mentioned in Skipr's article, did not comply with the rules for the protection of personal data. That's a matter between the curator and the doctor. This is a data breach. That's what the curator called it. The AP, the Personal Data Authority, is the competent authority to supervise this. As I have said, I have been in contact with the curator before these oral questions and also with the inspection to see whether the quality or safety of care is at stake. According to the inspection, this is not the case. The inspection hasn't received any reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mrs. Ellemeet. No, Mr. Van Gerven, it's Mrs. Ellemeet's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'm very much in favour of reasonableness. I'm very much in favour of seeing what the facts are. But we've heard these messages. We have also all received emails from people who were working in the hospital and are now on the street, especially from older employees, and not only from doctors but also from nurses. Then we cannot escape the fact that a very undesirable situation has arisen here. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan kunnen we niet anders dan constateren, ook op basis van dit artikel, dat er wel degelijk gestuurd wordt door de curator.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that. How does he see his own role with regard to the misery that has arisen today, both for doctors and certainly for the patients involved in this hospital?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	I have said it before: I think there is a data breach here. That's the name the curator gives it. The Personal Data Authority is the supervisory party for this purpose. I checked to see if the safety of care is at stake. That's why I consulted the inspection. He said that the safety of care is not at stake and that no reports have been received. That's a good message.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	A few months ago we stood here and we all said that we never want to see such a chaotic bankruptcy as that of the Flevoland hospitals, of the IJsselmeer hospitals. And now we see an enormous chaotic transfer, just before it goes to the St Jans valley. We are very concerned about that. I also read this morning that the President of the Patient Federation in Flevoland said that patients should beg to get their file with them, while there is a free choice of doctors. So I'd still like to know from the Minister what he's gonna do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	I agree with Mrs van den Berg that we no longer want to see such unplanned, unwanted bankruptcies. We had a debate on this not only a few months ago, but also two weeks ago. We're taking steps to avoid repetition. In this case, I shall continue to say 'the free choice of doctors remains; it is not at stake.' Patients can stay in Lelystad, where both disciplines, mentioned in Skipr's article, are still offered, but can also go to another location. I think that freedom of choice is very important and that freedom of choice is not affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	A second question, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	However, we note that the curator has allowed it to come to this point that the patients are now the victims. This curator is still here, so we would like to know from the Minister what else is going to happen. How do we make sure this is done properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	I doubt whether a curator has let anything be done to the detriment of patients who are not to be acted upon. The curators believe that two doctors have not complied with the rules for the protection of personal data. We consider this protection of personal data to be very important. That subject is under the supervision of the Personal Data Authority and I think it is very important that it be examined there. I look at the quality of care. I have consulted the inspection on this subject before this oral question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	A great deal has happened in Lelystad.We have had a lot of debates about this too.But last Monday the door also opened again, near St Jansdal. This was preceded by an almost military operation with enormous efforts from the organisation of St Jansdal. I'm judging that as a tremendously handsome effort, which deserves compliments. How does the Minister judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	We knew that on 1 March, so last Friday, the curator would transfer the tasks to the board of St Jansdal. It's true that there's been a lot of hard work. The article Skipr writes about is from a few days earlier; that a discussion, more than a discussion, is between a curator and a doctor is part of that period. I hope they can make it a great success in Lelystad with St Jansdal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would like to know if the Minister thinks he has acted proactively. We ask him to take the lead and now we see all kinds of articles in the newspaper. Doesn't he think he could have just sent a message to the Chamber about that? Does he believe that patients are well and fully informed about all their rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	On that last point: from Skipr's article I understand that the curator has sent a letter to the patients of both disciplines mentioned in that article. I got that information from Skipr's article today. That article, I believe, appeared at the end of last week. I'm totally fine with talking about that here. I think we will talk about care in Lelystad at regular intervals and care in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	I hear that the minister repeatedly makes the curator's point of view, and now he says yes, I say yes, but that is actually a very bad thing, because the minister should always be above the parties and be independent. That's why my complaint is that he's out of control. He talks about the protection of personal data, but is he familiar with the 2015 case against the Admiral de Ruyter Hospital, in which the judge ruled that failure to pass on patient data is contrary to the Medical Treatment Agreement Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	Yes, because that example, which Mrs Agema is now quoting, appears in the same article by Skipr. The curator considers that two doctors have not complied with the rules for the protection of personal data. The subsequent supervisory party shall be the Personal Data Authority. If the specialists cannot agree to this, they will make the course to the judge and we will get a ruling on it. I think that's a neat road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	There really is misinformation here, because who owns the patient file? From the curator or the patient? And if the patient wants to stay with his rheumatologist, who goes to another institution and gives a consent form, then the patient's file, which is owned by the patient, must accompany the patient. What about the curator? It sells the patient records and the patient records to another hospital. That's the crux where it's wrong and that's the agreement with that case against Admiral de Ruyter Hospital. It was about not passing on patient data, exactly what the curator is doing now. Is the Minister aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	I believe that Mrs Agema's speech makes it clear that this free choice of doctors is important. I agree. Again, that patient also keeps the free choice of doctors. If he wants to stay in Lelystad, he can. If he goes to another provider, so can he. Then, with his permission, that data goes over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	The Minister says: I stand for the free choice of doctors, which must be guaranteed. At the same time, we are hearing people say: bureaucratic obstacles are created if I want to make my own choice. So my question to the Minister is: where can people now deal with this complaint if they feel that they do not have that freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	I do not know if there are bureaucratic obstacles. It's not a word I used, but if anyone doesn't feel comfortable with the quality of care he delivered, he can report to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you.
