ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next item is the debate on Dutch military support for Syria. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and give Mrs Karabulut the floor as first speakers on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's hard to avoid the impression that we've been lied to more than once. We are repeatedly assured that support for armed groups in Syria was civilian in nature. It would be purely civil. And as for the hundreds of pick-up trucks that the Netherlands supplied, the insurgents' favorite weapon in Syria, it would have been stipulated that they were not used for war purposes. It's all bullshit, Mr. Chairman. This is evident from the documents that Minister Blok wanted to keep secret, but which were released by a WOB procedure. Dutch goods were used massively for war purposes. Pick-up trucks were used to send weapons and troops to the front. Even seemingly civilian goods, such as laptops, were used to select military targets. Almost all the goods supplied by the Netherlands were used by the Syrian insurgents for the military battle, but the minister did not tell us that when we talked about this last October. Why hasn't the Minister been honest about this? The truth was also not mentioned about military support for armed groups that helped Turkey in the illegal invasion of northern Syria last January. On several occasions we are concerned that the aid will be stopped immediately if a group receiving aid from the Netherlands participates in the battle in Afrin and fights on the Turkish side. But the WOB pieces show that in February last year pick-up trucks were delivered to Jabhat al-Shamiya. Again the question to the Minister: why are we not fairly informed about this? Then there is a very important aspect for my party: international law. The Minister claims that the 30 million euros of delivered goods were in line with international law. The fact that the goods were not subject to authorisation may be true, but that does not say much about the possibilities of breaches of law. Relevant is especially what the goods are used for. If goods supplied by the Netherlands have been used by warriors who have committed war crimes, and everything points to this.. then the law seems to have been violated. If goods supplied by the Netherlands have been used for acts of war against the incumbent government, everything points to this too.The law seems to have been violated. If the Netherlands has delivered goods to jihadists, the prosecution points in that direction...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr President, I would like a response from the Minister. Why does the Minister insist to this day that there is nothing wrong with international law at all? That is absolutely unbelievable, Mr President. Then I have a comment about secrecy. After the investigative journalism of Trouw en Nieuwsuur, everyone knows what the situation is and what highly dubious groups have been supported. Then the reflex of the cabinet that we often see follows: if it becomes difficult and if it is unpleasant, secrecy is maintained. "Sorry, I can't say anything about this, because state security is at stake," it sounds like it. Mr. Chairman. It seems to me that not the interests of the State are being served, as the Minister argues, but the interests of a few ministers who have done a good job of screwing things up. I'm closing up. The Netherlands has mixed in a gruesome civil war in Syria. Betting on regime change. Following the example of the United States, but also countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey, armed groups, including jihadists, were supported. With that oil was thrown on the fire in the war in Syria. That should never have happened. The least that the Dutch people and we, as representatives of the people, have a right to, is truth and openness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight I would like to argue for a sense of reality and against wishful thinking, as we have just heard. For credible action and against unbelievable indignation. For the powerful protection of the Netherlands and against the cramping protection of your own blazon. If we're gonna do something, we have to do something. Our biggest task as politicians is to keep Dutch people safe and to stand up for our values. That is why we must fight terrorists and help prevent the flow of refugees. And so, together with our allies, we must tackle the source of evil. That is what we must do against terrorists, against the mass slaughterers in Syria. That is why, on the initiative of the VVD, we sent our F-16s to bomb ISIS, and on the initiative of others in this Chamber, we jointly helped local, moderate rebels with food, uniforms and pickup trucks. If we do that in Syria, we are dealing with the reality of a terrible dirty war in the Middle East, and not with Hague's wishful thinking of clean hands, total transparency and full travel insurance. Where things go wrong, and things have gone wrong; let that be very clear, we must name them and learn from them. Not all rebels acted as we wanted and as we asked. The supervision could have been more complete. We didn't have all the information we wanted. That is why we agreed in October, in the debate we were having here, that we are going to work on a review framework, a decision model, so that next time it will be clearer. But the battle in Syria doesn't look like the political games at the Binnenhof. We shouldn't treat them like that here. Even the most moderate warrior in Syria is not a pacifist vegetarian with a subscription to Trouw. Then we shouldn't have pretended to be or could have been. Let's do it with reality. Mr. Chairman. Syria is a large ancient inn of peoples. The dictatorial administrator, President Assad, set fire to that inn eight years ago. More than half a million people died from that. ISIS has taken over a large wing from that inn and made an extra flame sea. Millions of people have fled to the Netherlands, many of them to Europe. The Netherlands has tried with others to help partially put out that fire. Part of it did, with the F-16s, part of it didn't. But it is good that we have dared, knowing that there were risks, working with our allies, accepting that things could sometimes go wrong. Many Syrians have been helped by this. Bombing ISIS makes the Dutch a lot safer now. Then there is the question of legal reality. Some now claim that our support was not permitted under international law. That's interesting, because almost the entire Chamber wanted to support rebels four years ago. Some wanted to support other rebels, but that's the same thing. Were we all in favour of illegal action? Was it allowed to speak legally? One attorney thinks so, the other doesn't. It is striking, however, that the legal debate has not taken place in any other country that has supported it. According to the VVD, this is the core: Assad, the manager of that Syrian inn, is setting that inn on fire. If he does that with all the people in it, does the fire department have to wait to put out until the instigator gives permission? I don't think so. That's not realistic. Let's be realistic. Let's talk about the state secrets. The realism advocated by the VVD must also be applied at other times. 2,000 pages of internal documents have been requested. It's painful that in that huge pile of papers, not all of the secret names have been wiped out. That's bad. It's a good thing we're doing a thorough investigation into that right now. But we must be realistic: where people work, human mistakes are made. Mr. Chairman. We must protect our beautiful country. We need to help prevent the flow of refugees. We must fight terrorists, including abroad. And we have to do this together, in a realistic and careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u6	And then we have to accept the risks. Mr President, one last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u7	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u8	Then we have to accept those risks, knowing that Syria is not the Netherlands and that we cannot deal with it in Dutch. That's not realistic. We have to do it together. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u9	I get the floor from Mr Koopmans, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u10	Apologies, Mr. Chairman, that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u11	Yeah, I saw it. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u12	I would like to comment on the beginning of Mr Koopmans' speech. That's why I came forward back then. He spoke out against The Hague's wishful thinking, against clean hands, against a fully cared for travel insurance. I was wondering, who is he talking to anyway? Today we are discussing a mission and a policy that is primarily promoted by the VVD. So is it some kind of mea culpa, some kind of confession of guilt, like: we actually did that wrong? Or is he talking to someone else? I just don't get it that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u13	I spoke in response to what we have just heard from the previous speaker, from the Socialist Party, who expressed a great deal of indignation. I would also like to remind you of the debate we have had here in the past on the fact that a lot of things have gone wrong. The VVD has also said that things have gone wrong, that we need to learn and that we need to be very critical of. That's why we're all working together now to do it better. That's very good, but I'll ask you to be realistic. Let us realize that if we want to do something in Syria with all of us, we must accept reality there. Then I do not want to keep a big political story as if it were the Netherlands there. I am very pleased that Mr Van Ojik probably agrees with me that it is not the Netherlands there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u14	That's right. I'm also willing to learn for myself from what went wrong. I will deal with this in my own term. But we know the VVD as the party that takes the measure and says: we are in favour of a realistic foreign policy and you are of the gestures, the raised fingers and the clean hands. Now I hear Mr Koopmans speaking on behalf of the VVD against this, but he is talking about a policy that has been pursued under the responsibility of his own party. Not under Mrs. Karabulut's. He says he responds to Mrs Karabulut and he can speak for himself in general, but the SP was against it. So you have to know who you're talking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u15	Mr Van Ojik is now confusing two things. We ask for a sense of reality. If we're going to do something in Syria, we need to be real. The VVD said, "Let's send F-16s to bomb ISIS." We all did that and that was a great deal of success; very good. We have also supported moderate rebels together with the Chamber. I think Mr Van Ojik was one of those who asked for it. I say this: if we do so, let us be realistic about knowingly accepting risks. If something goes wrong, we have to learn from it, but we shouldn't pretend we could never have done it. When I was talking about the Socialist Party's criticism, it was about whether you could actually do anything at all. What, then, as a VVDer, when other people say, let's do something? We are trying to make this a realistic story. It is not realistic then if it is said that this cannot be done, if you cannot accept that something is going wrong or if we have to pretend that it is the Netherlands in Syria. I think Mr Van Ojik agrees with me on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u16	I'd like to continue with the realism of the VVD. Is realism breaking laws in Syria? Is realism agreements that have been made with the Chamber rags on your boots? Has realism violated export restrictions? Is realism bringing citizens from the Netherlands to court because they would have worked with terrorist organisations and then sending officials from the ministry, with a minister of your party, to Syria to cooperate with those same terrorist organisations? What is your realism? And how honest are you with this story? You didn't ask one question to your own minister. Then what did you learn from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u17	Mr Öztürk asks eight questions at the same time. I'm not gonna peel them all off. What's realistic? If you see that the terrorists are taking over Syria, that there are mass massacres there and that a lot of people are coming this way, then it is realism not just to have the lifted finger and to say "oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh!', But then you go there and you do something about it. And I am very glad that we have done something about it. Again, things have gone well in this program, for example the F-16s.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u18	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u19	Things have also gone wrong, for example, monitoring those rebels. We have critical points to make, and I have put them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u20	But didn't you watch and read News and Faith? Didn't you see all those documents that show that there was a lie? It shows that this minister lied. Just lied! And did you not say to the same minister: wait a minute, you cannot do that in our democracy. Have you not entered into a discussion with this minister to say that this cannot be done, and you must never do this again? You're trying to keep a story of: well, if you're going to Syria, you have to take risks. So the VVD says in other words: if you're going to Syria, you need to be able to work with terrorists. In other words, we are going to break the laws, and because we want to do something in Syria, we are simply going to work with terrorist organisations. Is that the realism of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u21	Mr Öztürk takes things from a source that does not exist. I don't think it's useful to go into all the untruths he's selling here and trying to put in my mouth. That doesn't strike me as... We are talking about a very serious issue here, Mr Öztürk. We are talking about a war in Syria, where half a million people died, where huge refugee flows have come to the Netherlands, where Dutch people are affected. That is a serious matter. And I say, let's not treat that as a Haags game. He's trying to put words in my mouth again. Let us treat this as the realistic and very serious, horrible fact that it is. And let's not play with these kinds of games.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u22	It has nothing to do with games. People look at this and wonder: what is the realism of the VVD? Is that working with terrorists? That's what this minister did. Then what is it? Say it! Is it breaking rules? Is it a violation of state agreements? That's what I'm asking you. There are people in court for the same facts as our officials. You're not answering that question. And then you try to talk around it by saying realism, and we want to help those people. You don't help these people; you make sure these organizations kill other people. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u23	I think that the latter is so serious that Mr Öztürk might want to take a moment to reconsider. 'Cause he's here saying I'm helping people kill others. Is he serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u24	Mr. Öztürk, would you please explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u25	If you give combat equipment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u26	No, no, let me answer that. Answer me, Mr. Öztürk!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u27	I'm talking about my own answers. And you don't have to say anything about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u28	No, not "you" and not "you," but just through the chairman, otherwise things will get out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u29	I say, see the documents. If we give resources to organisations that have terrorist tendencies, and with these means other people are killed or oppressed, then we are also guilty. That's what I'm saying. And if you support that policy, you're also a cop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u30	I understand that this is a kind of limited attempt by Mr Öztürk to take back his words in part. I don't think it's a success. In the meantime, he did say that we are supporting terrorists and helping murderers. I believe that this is such that the truth, and so very unsubstantiated and not based on any reality, does not really deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u31	Then I'll go to Mrs. Karabulut, or else...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u32	Mr President, I have been addressed a few times, so may I comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Koopmans stated that nothing was actually wrong. My entire plea was not about the discussion about the war in Syria, but that we have been lied to repeatedly by the cabinet. I gave those examples in my term. I would like to ask Mr Koopmans the following questions. Do you deny the revelations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw? Do you deny that, contrary to what has been said, the goods delivered have been deployed militaryly? Does the VVD deny that the prosecution is now trying to prosecute someone who was a warrior of Jabhat al-Shamiya, to whom assistance has been given? Does the VVD deny all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u35	This is just a question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u36	Well, there's about five of them. The point is, we've all... At least, not with Mrs Karabulut, who didn't like what was happening in Syria, but didn't want to do anything practical about it. But many other parties have said: let us try to help those people in Syria, who are now being murdered on all fronts. We said, "Let's send F-16s." Others have said: let us try to find moderate rebels to support them. That is a very important point. Then we say that things have gone wrong. There could have been better monitoring and more lessons learned, but we are not saying that terrorists have now been supported. There is no basis for that, as far as I know. I am very curious to see if Mrs Karabulut is going to prove that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u37	My question has, in essence, been implicitly answered by Mr Koopmans. Mr Koopmans and the VVD therefore do not deny all the facts and revelations presented. This means that we are indeed faced with withholding information and unfair sharing of information. As a representative of the people, I certainly feel it is my duty to find out the truth in these important issues. If the VVD supports our Constitution, in order to promote the international legal order, and if it is convinced of the goodness of this programme, it should support an international inquiry into whether this has been done within the framework of international law or not. 'Cause I don't think that's what you want. With this, the VVD, Mr Koopmans, confirms the attitude of this cabinet, namely: tricky, we put it under the carpet, we keep it secret. I find that very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u38	Mrs Karabulut, the interruptions must be really short. If we start like this tonight, I'm really gonna narrow the interruptions. I hear you say that you only have three interruptions, but that does not mean that all speeches can be made. That's what you have speaking time for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u39	I believe that in October we all asked some 380 questions, all of which have been answered. We have asked some 180 questions in preparation for this debate, which have also been answered. I myself took the initiative for a round table of, I believe, half a day, with all experts and a lot of pieces. So it's not like we're gonna hide this under the table. Mrs Karabulut has a right to ask all the questions she has asked before. She has now asked the Minister again these questions. Let her put it, but don't let her ask me to answer for the Minister now, because that is not my role at all. I am standing before the VVD Group and the VVD Group also has its questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u40	I have listened carefully to Mr Koopmans' contribution to supporting the rebels. It reminded me a little of the time of the Cabinets-Balkenende. There was something like "with the knowledge of today we shouldn't have done that." Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u41	I don't see the parallel. This programme was set up so many years ago with the aim of combating ISIS. Some of that worked out. Part of it didn't work out, but I say again: it's good that we tried and accepted the risks. So I also say: if one of the risks you have accepted in advance, let us not pretend that it is all wrong. No, because we wanted to keep the Netherlands safe, we wanted to contain those refugee flows, we wanted to fight those terrorists where they came from. I think that's very important. I assume that the PVV also considers it important to fight terrorism where it comes from. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u42	Those calculated risks are indeed not the same as they are, as you say. That is a pity; so I listen to you. Would you, with the knowledge of the present, have come to the same conclusion, to the same support to the rebels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u43	The point is that we want to fight the terrorists and we want to destroy the terrorists where they came from. We have also tried to support the moderate rebels in their fight against the mass slaughterer who was President Assad and against the terrorists of ISIS and other clubs. That was hugely important. Now we know how that battle went. Now we know that some of the help was extremely good, that some of the help had no effect and that we could have monitored some of the help better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u45	Mr. Chairman. Our group has always been opposed to supporting the Syrian rebels. Immediately after we asked questions about this subject to this minister, who is now in office, this minister immediately stopped the deliveries to investigate them. We congratulate the Minister for that, because his predecessors had not done so. After that, a lot of things are still unclear. This is therefore actually an interim debate on the published WOB documents. There's a minister's investigation into the WOB documents. There's a minister's investigation into leaking state secrets. Following a chamber motion, the CAVV and the AIV are also about to conduct an investigation. Today, therefore, I shall confine myself to the unclear aspects of the documents that have been made public. I have a number of questions about this, first of all about the information we have yet to get. The first question: when will the new WOB be back online? Is there about a date for that? Could you send the results of the investigation into leaking state secrets to the Chamber? When do you expect to be able to do this? What should we do with the IOB study of August 2018, in which this information was not mentioned at all? Is the lack of these data being evaluated? Can we see that evaluation, too? Then I also have questions about the rebel groups supported by the Netherlands. How many Syrian rebel groups did the Netherlands support exactly? What rebel groups supported by the Netherlands have been designated by the prosecution as terrorist? What rebel groups supported by the Netherlands were described in UN reports as "human rights violations"? Have the groups that have become public due to blackmail errors been put at risk by now? Is there any contact with those groups? When did the Ministry sign the last supply agreement with the Syrian rebel groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u46	A lot of questions. I was still with one of the first questions asked by Mr Van Helvert, namely when the WOB documents will be back online. That just seems like a factual question, but doesn't he think it's kind of weird how that all happened? You put pieces online. Then it turns out that it contains information that should not have been revealed. Then you pull them back. Then you're going to review them. In that case, MPs are allowed to look at them confidentially, but not talk about them. And then ever, in the future, those pieces will be repainted online again. You can actually ask the Minister when they'll be back online, but what does Mr. Van Helvert actually think of this whole thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u47	Thank you for that question. That gives me the opportunity to go into it a little bit more, because that is, of course, a very, very separate situation. I fully understand that the Foreign Minister must pay close attention to what he makes public and what he does not make public. But once something is online, it is now pretended to be confidential information. It probably is, while the one who downloaded the pieces soon enough did and the one who tried it 15 minutes later, didn't. That is indeed a very strange situation. They're coming online again. Then we can talk about it, but we can't at the moment. Hence my question: when will this happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u48	I don't know if Mr Van Helvert ever looked at Nieuwsuur or read Trouw during that period? I did, and so I know what was in those pieces. Now he has to ask the Minister when he'll put the documents back online. I ask Mr Van Helvert whether he himself finds it a bit strange that he should now ask the Minister when documents he has already seen on television, about which he has read in the newspaper and which have been on the Ministry's website for two or three weeks, will come online. Now he has to ask the Minister very humbly: gosh, can you tell me when those pieces will come back online? A little strange, though, Mr. Van Helvert, I would of course like to ask through you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u49	Well, how about it, Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u50	That is why I am asking for it, because it is quite extraordinary that the media should be able to make use of information, whereas we believe that it is actually confidential. In principle, we are, of course, holding debates here on the basis of documents that we all have. That is why it is good to have these WOB documents and I see this as an interim debate, because we are still getting some information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u51	I know earlier statements by Mr Van Helvert at the end of last year, after the second revelations. Then he said, "Now all the information is known, so now I know all the information. Now that we know that civilian resources have been deployed forcefully, I want from the Minister when and how and what." Well, Mr Omtzigt has been very excited about that too. Among other things, thanks to him, we are having this debate. My question to Mr Van Helvert would be: what happened now? What exactly does he want from the minister? Are we gonna wait a few months until the minister might publish some more WOB pieces with a few more words painted away? Or does Mr Van Helvert, like my group, want the documents to be revealed and that we examine whether the Minister has complied with international law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u52	I have not yet finished my contribution, but in that sense we are still in the same situation as that in which we had stayed. We all saw the broadcasts that Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks mentioned at the time. We've all said ours about that. You just quoted me. You quoted Mr. Omtzigt. Yeah, all that hasn't changed, and we're having that discussion. I did say at the beginning: I see this as an interim debate because we still need a lot of information. We are still getting information, because the Minister has said: I will take it off the Internet for a moment. So we can't talk about it right now. I'd rather have a debate if we could talk about pieces. I didn't get to see those secret documents either, because that would allow me to speak up in this debate and reveal a state secret. I wouldn't want that. The moment I see those pieces, I have to sign something that says that I'm gonna have that or that or that punishment hanging over my head if I'm gonna violate it. So I didn't. I would like to have an open debate with the Chamber and the Minister on documents that we can see. That is why I said: I see this as an interim debate, because we still need information. We still need to get the WOB pieces we can see. I'm sure we'll see pieces that we're not supposed to see, but then the Minister can tell us why we can't. If that really isn't possible, I can understand it. We also need to get the leak investigation. The Minister said I'm investigating that leak. There's another investigation into that. And there will be another investigation from the CAVV and the AIV about how to proceed and also looking back at what has gone wrong. I think it is wise to be able to include these documents in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u53	I do not know what Mr Van Helvert's CDA group is trying to do, because the Minister is indeed waiting a few months. Then he's gonna do a couple more things. The CAVV is going to look into the procedure. We don't get to know anything about that either. What we do know in the meantime, thanks to journalistic work, is that Al-Shamiya has been supported and that, contrary to what the minister claimed, the equipment has not been used civilly but purely militaryly. All the concerns that the CDA Group had and has, like my group, which led us to oppose, have been met, but much more importantly, we have been denied all that information. Do I understand that Mr Van Helvert wants this information to be made public? Or is he just gonna let himself be fooled with a bunch of things, and he's gonna keep these lies alive by waiting for some of the WED documents, in which some of the things we know about now by the newspaper are gonna be wiped out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u54	I think we want the same thing. We want to see those pieces. That's why I'm asking when we're gonna get it. You ask: do you want to wait long? No, I'm gonna ask when we're gonna get it. The minister might say "you'll get it next week" or "you'll get it or so." Then we can talk about it and everyone has the same pieces. I think that's important. I don't think our wishes are that far apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u56	So that's it at that point. I had stayed with the questions about the ministry's actions when it became clear that it went wrong. At what time was the first notice known to the Ministry that the agreement was broken that Dutch goods were not used in battle? When was that known to the Ministry and why wasn't it immediately decided to stop deliveries? How is it that in the technical briefings the Ministry indicates to the Chamber that everything is being monitored and that nothing is going on, while in the wobbled documents it has long been shown that the equipment was used in the battle? Then I ask questions about the advice that was in the Ministry's possession. What external opinions have been requested and which have not yet been shared with the Chamber? I would then like to ask about the human rights violations, the possible human rights violations by a rebel group supported by the Netherlands, I have to say here officially. Has a Dutch-supported group shot at the Kurdish district of Sheikh Maqsoud in Aleppo or not with so-called dumb Hamim rockets, which make no distinction between civilians and warriors? Did a group supported by the Netherlands use poison gas in that Kurdish district? Can the Minister assure us that the groups supported by the Netherlands were not involved in the attacks on the Kurdish residential area of Aleppo? I'm saying this because Amnesty International reported back in 2016, and also announced to the Ministry, that a number of groups were in the process of attacking that residential neighborhood with those stupid missiles. Amnesty International talks about Jabhat al-Shamiya, the Brigade of Sultan Murad, the Nour al-Din al-Zenki battalions and Brigade 13. Are these groups supported by the Netherlands? If so, Amnesty International said in 2016 that these groups were working on this. Then what was done with it from the Ministry? That Amnesty International report has been dealt with here in the Chamber and Minister Koenders has spoken shamefully of these matters. Finally, on what the Minister himself said and wrote about the documents. The WOB documents on page 59, Part 13, state that the civil character of the above-mentioned equipment is without prejudice to the fact that the use of the equipment does not necessarily have to be of a civil nature. Does the Minister agree with us that this means that you accept that the delivered goods can not be used for civil purposes? And finally, how do you explain the shift of the ministry in the response? In the debate on 2 October, the Minister says, on a question from our group, that the supply agreement states 'no use for war purposes'. But in the answer to the parliamentary questions last week, the Minister says: the delivery conditions allowed for the non-offensive use. So first it was not allowed to be used in battle, but now only not offensive but in defense. Then where's the difference? The Minister says that we have intensified deliveries in connection with the fight against ISIS. ISIS was expelled from Northern Syria in early 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u57	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u58	The question is: why are these deliveries continuing until the beginning of 2018? First of all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u59	And the last instance, at least for the first time. Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u60	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again discussing military support for rebel groups in Syria. Again a lot of revelations, again a lot of questions, again a lot of secrets and again a lot of lies. This time due to a leak in the minister's device itself. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave away information to Nieuwsuur and Trouw on its own initiative, while the Minister himself indicated that it was a matter of state secrets. Information of invaluable value for the Dutch intelligence position. Information that could put people and organisations at risk. Mr. Chairman. Once again, the media are better informed than the Chamber. What a disgrace to Dutch democracy. So far, the Minister has chosen to declare all information on the NLA programme to be state secret. Now he can't hide behind that anymore. The names of the groups supported by the Netherlands and the executives of the NLA programme are on the streets. A WOB request was just enough. But what has led to the Minister's officials leaking these documents? Does the Minister still have control over his own civil service? Does the minister have enemies within his own ministry, or are there honest officials who deliberately leak to inform society properly? It's a mess. The Minister continues to insist that state secrets remain. Does he recognize that the law has been violated? If so, why hasn't he reported it yet? What does the information released mean for the intelligence position of the Netherlands? During the debate in October, the Minister said that the goods delivered had no offensive purpose. At the time, we, as well as other political parties, were happy to ask critical questions about this. But what did the documents that were released show? All goods supplied by the Netherlands were used for military purposes. Does the Minister dare to deny this? Does he dare to deny that the Netherlands has paid the salary of rebels and possibly terrorists? Does he dare to deny that the Netherlands has delivered tactical vests for the AK-47 and the M16? Does he dare to deny that Dutch pickup trucks have been used to assemble automatic weapons? Was this a peace mission from the Netherlands or a distribution and control mission from the Ministry? Finally, Mr President. Minister Blok lied to the Chamber. We can draw this conclusion now. The Chamber has been deliberately outlawed. According to Professor Knoops, the Dutch State has bypassed export restrictions under the guise of state secrecy. The Dutch State therefore smuggled goods into Syria. What are you guys doing? What is this cabinet doing? Who advises you to do this sort of thing? The Dutch State, as enforcer of the law, does not comply with the law itself. That's impossible, isn't it? This is the world upside down, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Shouldn't this minister be prosecuted? These dirty political games must stop. If you're lied to by someone you thought you could trust, it can be very painful and frustrating. You forgive that person once, and maybe a second time. But then you realize you're dealing with a professional liar. With someone who doesn't correct his mistakes, but instead covers them up by declaring them "State secret." With someone who doesn't inform the Chamber, but perseveres in his lie. This minister therefore fits in with the list of VVD ministers such as Zijlstra, Teeven and Opstelten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u61	Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u62	As far as DENK is concerned, the VVD and Foreign Affairs are not a happy combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u63	Mr Öztürk, you use all kinds of terms that I think are sticking to the content. Because "professional liars" and those kind of terms are actually not entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u64	Those kinds of terms are used more often in this Chamber, and now you come back to me to discuss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u65	If you have no confidence in a minister, or if you think you have been misinformed, then there are instruments for that too. But to constantly repeat something like "professional liar," "liar" and so on, I don't think it's entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u66	But you're not about that, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u67	Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u68	Mr President, my question is also addressed to you, because I do not think it is appropriate either. I've been called "an accomplice of murderers" and so on before, but then there's a lot worse things being said about all kinds of other people. I don't think that's appropriate. I find it really unacceptable, and I would ask you to be very strict about it, because we have an institution here to hold up, and there is a certain civilised way of dealing with it. If Mr Öztürk is not in a position to comply, I would ask you to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u69	You've made your point. I suggest you proceed, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u70	Mr President, I do not think this is an issue at all. I kept my story here, and I'm gonna keep doing it. When a minister tells lies, we as a Chamber, as the cabinet's controller, should say the same thing. The citizen has a right to hear that. You can try to defend your own minister here by putting pressure on me through the chairman, but trust me, you will never succeed. I'll finish my story, Mr. Chairman. The most important thing is: what lessons has the Minister learned? I would like the Minister to go into this in detail. How is he gonna make sure that these things never happen again? Otherwise, I am inclined to ask that this minister make room for another minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Since the debate on 2 October, a large number of new documents have become public. Something has gone terribly wrong. After the Minister repeatedly relied on confidentiality in response to series of specific questions from this Chamber, the Minister did not want to endanger lives and he had agreements with allies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That turned out to be a mistake. Apparently the pieces were taken off the website again and declared state secret again. We MPs are allowed to see them confidentially now, but don't talk to anyone about it. I did not make use of this opportunity. Meanwhile, the documents are being revised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have no idea what that means and the Minister has set up a committee of inquiry at his ministry to see if there is any suspicion of intent or gross negligence. And if that's the case, we'll hear it somewhere in the spring. Mr. Chairman. I think it's a mess. You can't go back to declaring facts that you've made public, can you? And the Minister should simply answer the Chamber if he is asked about the facts that he himself has brought out, whether this happened by mistake or on purpose, which is apparently one of the options being examined. It doesn't matter, does it? And why should such an investigation take so long? The Chamber has been on a leash for months now when it asks questions about documents made public by the Ministry itself. The minister can't hide behind an official investigation. He, and no one else, is responsible for the publication of the documents, and he, and no one else, must explain the facts revealed by that publication. For example, I saw a delivery agreement at Nieuwsuur that the Netherlands concluded on 9 February last year, i.e. 18 days after the Turkish invasion in Afrin, with an organisation that then participated in that raid. And that while Minister Zijlstra assured the Chamber on 1 February that all aid to groups fighting on the Turkish side in Afrin would be stopped immediately. That wasn't right. Or yes, but then the minister has to give a statement to the Chamber. Saying the pieces are confidential doesn't work. I hope the Minister can clarify things. Mr. Chairman. Not only with confidentiality it has become a chaos, but also with international law the cabinet and thus the Chamber have ended up in a maze. I have counted at least three opposing views. The external consultant says: the nature of the goods delivered, lethal or non-letal, is not relevant. This raises the question whether the Netherlands has exceeded international law with supplies. The Minister's internal advisers say that the civil nature of the aid may limit the risk of conflict with international law. Note the word "can" and the word "limit." And then there's the minister himself. He says: we stayed within the limits of international law. How does the Minister know that? I'd like to ask him. What's he basing himself on? I would also like an answer to that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech. My group would like to learn from what has gone wrong. We, the Green Left Group, have always supported the delivery of civilian goods to moderate groups fighting against Assad and Islamic State. We knew there were risks, but we thought it was better than doing nothing. We underestimated those risks in retrospect. But we always thought we could count on the information we received from the cabinet. In my view, that is the crucial question in this debate: did the cabinet at times know from the documents, those 1,800 pages that we have all received, that the conditions were violated, inform the Chamber about them or simply say 'there are risks to those supplies'? The latter seems to be sometimes. But I'd be happy to let the Minister convince me of the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u74	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I am speaking here tonight not only on behalf of the Christian Union, but also on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr. Chairman. We are here this evening to speak again about the non-lethal, non-lethal, support for the so-called moderate Syrian opposition. A few weeks after our previous debate, Trouw en Nieuwsuur published out of published documents. Those documents made it even more clear what exactly happened to that support. The Christian Union was not in favour of this support for these groups, because of the fact that you are sanding along the edge of international law and because of the great risk that that support would be misused. That's what happened. And once again that has become clear from those published documents. The conclusion of the previous debate was therefore that there should be a clear review framework for support for such operations. I would ask the Minister if he can say anything about the state of play regarding the development of that review framework. Mr. Chairman. After the Turkish raid in Afrin, there appears to have been pick-up trucks delivered to the groups that supported the Netherlands. This seems to contradict the previous statements made by the Foreign Minister at the time. However, the answer to all the questions in this regard is confidential. As a result, we cannot really talk about it, even though it is a very important issue. This leads us to a number of questions. Does the Minister agree with us that this makes the supervisory role of the Chamber very difficult in this type of operation? It is good that there will be a review framework, but how does the Minister intend to do justice to the Court's task of controlling the government in the future? That is difficult when everything about what is delivered, including the material, and about the organizations is declared state secret. Does the Minister agree with us? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, in the previous debate, the Minister himself indicated that the discussion was too implicit at the time. We needed the reports of Trouw and Nieuwsuur to get a picture of what really happened in the field. The reports from the field received by the Ministry showed that the goods delivered were used in battle. The Minister says that it could not be ruled out that the goods would be used in battle. Isn't it clear from the reports from the field that these goods were used for offensive purposes? I'd like a response from the Minister. The latter is relevant, also in relation to the supervisory role of the Chamber. Does the Minister agree with us? And if one knew of this offensive effort, could the delivery of these goods still pass the test of international law? Mr. Chairman. I have a number of specific questions. Have any goods been delivered to organisations involved in the attack on Afrin after the attack on Afrin started? The delivery of vehicles on 9 February, to which I just referred, indicates that the attack started on 20 January 2018. Please explain to the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Also EenVandaag talks about import problems at the Turkish border in relation to goods delivered by the Netherlands, because of restrictions. What restrictions were these? And why didn't export permits be required for these dual-use goods, when Syria was a risk country? What else could the AK-47 jackets be used for than for the armed offensive battle, even though they were not directly included in the list of strategic goods in the 2013 European regulation? Does this not show that the Netherlands actually had to do with a paper reality, which over and over again did not correspond to the reality and real use of delivered goods? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is not asking for full disclosure of this type of operation today. But as a chamber, we do want to be able to carry out our controlling task. That is why we would very much like to hear the Minister's answers on these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u75	I would like to ask Mrs Van der Graaf the following. When this programme was discussed a few years ago, the Christian Union was not in favour of it. The Christian Union wanted to give support to the Kurdish rebels, to the YPG. All kinds of human rights violations have also been documented there. I say "also," but I correct that: they are accused of human rights violations. What military support did the Christian Union intend to give to this Kurdish movement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u76	We are surprised at the difference in the appreciation and assessment of the various groups that were in Syria. The Christian Union has clearly argued that the support we are talking about to the groups we are talking about here tonight could count on the support of the Christian Union. That's exactly what I just reported. That's what I'm asking the Minister tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u77	For the record, we are talking about support for moderate rebels. At that time, in the Chamber, in short, they wanted to support the rebels as they are now supported. The Christian Union was not in favour of this, because it wanted to support other rebels, namely the Kurdish YPG rebels. So what kind of support did the Christian Union intend to give these people? And how is that different from what we're talking about right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u78	This evening we are discussing support for the so-called moderate Syrian opposition and the support that the Netherlands has given to it. It didn't work out right. We were expecting this to happen. We weren't for that. That was the reason for the previous debate. This evening we are discussing the follow-up to the new documents that have been revealed on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u79	Mrs Van der Graaf will replace Mr Voordewind for a moment. I forgot to mention that at the beginning. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u80	Mrs Van der Graaf also pleads for openness in her questions. She says that maybe not all the documents can be made public. But would it be an idea to at least see the documents that were public for a few weeks in Trouw, Nieuwsuur and on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? We all know these documents, but we can't talk about them now because they're state secret. Would it be an idea to ask the Minister to just send those documents to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u81	Mr Van Ojik has heard the question from the Christian Union on this point. I would also like to express the inconvenience that we are now facing as a Chamber. That's what makes it difficult. I can well imagine that the documents that have been public before will be made public again. We know the Minister's reaction to this, but I can imagine that. In addition, a committee is now working on the review framework. Part of this is also looking at what we are learning from this debate and how this programme has worked. There is also a point about the disclosure of information. This would also be a point towards the future that the Christian Union would like to pass on to the committee working on the admission framework. It can then look at this, so that the Chamber can continue to carry out its supervisory function properly, including with regard to this type of operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u82	Let me honestly say that I am concerned with this debate, in which we ask the Minister a number of questions. We all do. So far, the Minister has always said to a number of these questions: I cannot say anything about that, because that is state secret. But it is information that has already been published in the newspaper and on the Ministry's website and has been on television. That does indeed make the debate uncomfortable, as Mrs Van der Graaf says. That seems to me to be a very good qualification. We can solve that by saying to the Minister all of us: just send those documents to the Chamber, because then we can talk about it openly. Yeah, it just occurred to me that this might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u83	It almost scares you yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u84	I hear it just comes up to Mr Van Ojik. Mr Van Ojik has just heard me say that the Christian Union can well imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u85	That's good. It's the least we can do. In view of the position of the minister who is about to send documents, but with even more details, and who also says that he does not consider an external international opinion appropriate at the moment, I wonder what further steps the Christian Union Group sees in order to bring the facts up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u86	We think it is very important that the committee is now working on the review framework. That's gotta come to the room. In the future, this can help the Chamber to fulfil its role properly in this type of operation and also to assess everything at the front. I have put a number of critical questions to which I would like to have an answer from the Minister during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u87	Of course, we've asked those questions before. The point is that the Minister is taking the Chamber out of play. He's misinformed the Chamber and not fair. In September, Mr Voordewind, a spokesperson for your group and one of the predecessors on this subject, agreed with me that the bottom line should be. If that information is not provided by the Minister, then we are back here again, because the Minister denies everything and new facts have emerged. Mr Voordewind also felt that, given the fact that the goods were not civilian but military, the question had to be answered as to whether this had happened under international law. Can I now count on the support of the Christian Union Group if I later reject these proposals if the Minister continues to refuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u88	Mrs Karabulut has heard the questions of the Christian Union. They see on a number of points. She just referred it to me in an interruption. I would first like to hear the Minister's reaction to this. I would like to give him the opportunity to reply to that in this period. That seems to me to be the proper way to pursue this debate. I do not want to anticipate the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u89	I'd like to ask you about YPG. Your group has said that it does not support the NLA programme, but that it is prepared to support YPG. The previous minister, Zijlstra, has indicated that this is an organisation working with a terrorist organisation such as the PKK. Does the Christian Union Group still think that equipment or material should be sent to that organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u90	I want to think about this. May I come back to this in the second instance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u91	That's good. Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u92	Mr. Chairman. The Syrian people were cornered by evil: on the one hand by the barrel bombs and chemical attacks of Assad and on the other hand by the barbarity of ISIS. The consequences are known: thousands of dead and millions of people fleeing. In that situation, the Dutch government, supported by a large majority of the House, decided not to stand by, but to offer humanitarian aid, to combat IS militaryly and to provide non-lethal support to Syrian rebels. This happened together with many allies, including the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Belgium. That is what we were hoping to do for the Syrian people. There is now much to be done to support the Syrian rebels. The Labour Party still supports the decision at that time, which was not taken lightly. The non-lethal support has enabled the terror of ISIS and Assad to be combated. But above all, that support put the Syrian opposition in a position to participate in negotiations in order to reach a political solution for Syria. Following the reports of Nieuwsuur and Trouw that Dutch support has also fallen into the hands of terrorist groups, the Chamber held a wide-ranging debate in October. Although we as the Labour Party were aware of the potential risks, of course we also see that not everything went well. That is why we have also supported the motion for a new review framework so that we can learn from the past and make better decisions in the future. It was adopted by a large majority. Following the October debate, new reports on support for the Syrian opposition have emerged in various media. One of the reasons for this is that we are now having another debate. The Labour Party has the following questions to the Minister. What exactly is the situation with the cessation of non-lethal support for the Syrian opposition? Has it been completely discontinued in January, as the Minister has previously informed the Chamber, or has it taken place later? The Minister may say that this is confidential, but we will come back to it at a later date. It is one of our crucial questions. How is it possible that state secret information was brought out by the Ministry itself? Why was it chosen to return to state secrecy so that it could not be discussed in public? It seems like a bit of a reverse reasoning. Mr. Chairman. Then there's my last question. What about those arms export permits? Can the Minister guarantee that no goods were delivered for which no arms export licence had been granted when they should have? Can the Minister comment on the reports from EenVandaag that these arms export licences have been deliberately bypassed? Is that right, or isn't that right? Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with that. A lot of questions have been asked. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u94	Mr. Chairman. We are standing here again today after revelations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw. Once again, it is about Dutch support for Syrian rebels. My predecessors have already said a lot in this debate, but I want to go back to the core, to when the programme started. When this programme was decided, the Syrian people were stuck between Assad and ISIS on the one hand. This room was trying to protect civilians. We wanted to offer them something of a perspective. In the previous debate, the Chamber noted major problems in the implementation of the programme. There was insufficient information about the risks of international law. Agreements with the Chamber on selection and monitoring have not been complied with. I found that at that time, I noted that in the second term too, and I find that disappointing. That is why lessons had to be learned for the future. They had to be pulled quickly. I think the Chamber should look at itself, too. That committee that would examine those lessons and come to that review framework has not yet started. I think we should start with that as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we cannot stop there today, because the revelation of the WOB-pieces has, of course, created new questions. First of all about the use of the goods delivered. The Minister states that the Netherlands supplied non-lethal goods without any offensive purpose. How does the latter rhyme with the vehicles that were delivered for frontline improvement? How often have deliveries or collaborations stopped because organisations are using our resources offensively? Has that also happened consistently? Secondly, on this point. During the previous debate, I spoke extensively with the Minister about whether or not to require the authorisation of certain goods. The Minister now makes it clear that all goods delivered are not subject to authorisation. When I look at the EU list of military and dual-use goods, I see that it is. But I still have two questions about this. One: does the Minister agree with me that long-arms vests could perhaps be carried out in Syria, but that this is a bit of a phantom? To put it this way, those vests weren't meant for tennis rackets. Two: would the Minister be prepared to remove any doubts surrounding such permits by submitting them to an independent authority? Mr. Chairman. My next point is monitoring. Former Minister Zijlstra indicated last year that if it appeared that a group receiving Dutch aid participated in the battle in Afrin, this aid would be stopped immediately. I would ask the Minister to confirm once again that there has indeed been no non-lethal support for groups that have been found involved in the attack in Afrin. Can the Minister also confirm that Dutch non-lethal support has been provided to organisations which were also supported by Turkey? Is it true that such groups often carried out a Turkish agenda, an agenda that was probably anti-Kurdish? Mr. Chairman. These revelations were given a new dimension when disclosure in the context of the WOB revealed that, I quote, "by mistake" state secrets had been revealed. Therefore, the following questions. Is that what put people and organizations at risk? I read that a committee of inquiry has been set up. Who are these committees? How is independence guaranteed? When are the results coming? Wouldn't it be a case for the state police, too? I find it complicated to explain that the State Department then decides whether or not to report it. Perhaps that should be done independently. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I repeat my appeal from the previous debate: give the external international counsellor a contract that allows him or her to ask for advice but also to give him or her unsolicited advice. In this way, the Court can also seek independent advice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u95	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u96	Mr. Chairman. The Rutte II and III Cabinets provided almost EUR 30 million of support to Islamic fighting groups in Syria, to groups that did not respect human rights. The government called them "moderate groups." Food packages, blankets, vehicles and laptops were included. The government called this "non-lethal assistance." Later, it became clear from the media that much of this aid was indeed for the benefit of the armed struggle. Vehicles were used to transport warriors and ammunition to the front. Laptops were used for the selection of targets. Food packages also sometimes ended up with warriors. The so-called moderate groups built the non-lethal assistance in such a way that they could perform a deadly function. For example, pick-up trucks were fitted with a metal bracket on which a machine gun could easily be fitted. Warriors of so-called moderate groups crossed over to non-moderate groups and simply took along the tools provided by the Netherlands. Later it appeared that fighters from the so-called moderate groups were also involved in serious crimes and even in the attack on the Kurdish fighters in Afrin. A year ago, Minister Blok's predecessor swore to the Chamber that he would immediately end the support for groups involved in the attack in Afrin. That promise didn't come true. Weeks after the attack in Afrin, the Netherlands still supplied vehicles to Jabhat al-Shamiya, a group that has been considered a terrorist group since 2015. The government sold all this to the House of Representatives under the motto that it allowed moderate groups to survive, which benefited the civilian population. It was not subjected to extremist combat groups. If the aid had already fallen into the hands of opponents, it would not have been the intention. But, yes, that can happen in the unclear situation in Syria. Mr. Chairman. From the start of the NLA programme in 2015, the impression was created that it was a humanitarian aid programme, a humanitarian aid programme for poor Syrians who bravely fought against Assad and Islamic State. But what was sold as a humanitarian aid programme to the Chamber and the Dutch public, turned out to be a military support programme. Those brave Syrians turned out to be Muslim extremists, jihadist scum. The Netherlands therefore supplied goods that were used for offensive purposes. That suspicion already existed, but has now been confirmed by documents that have escaped the cover-up of Rutte and Blok. From the very beginning, the PVV had warned that the non-lethal assistance would be used to support the violence of war, and would come into the hands of non-moderate fighters. That is why the PVV has opposed this aid from the very beginning. See? The reaction of this cabinet, supported by the coalition parties, is now to establish "a review framework," in which all the conditions for support to armed groups must be laid down in advance. A review framework?! The PVV sees more in the use of common sense and logical reasoning, and finally to open its eyes to the horrors of Islam and to put first that there is never again a penny of Dutch tax money spent on supporting the jihad, anywhere in the world. Let Minister Blok begin with that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u97	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u98	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the second time, I am debating with the Chamber the progress of the NLA programme between 2014 and 2018. This was a major programme, which was also discussed extensively at the time. There have also been many letters exchanged between my predecessors and the Chamber. I myself later answered a large number of questions about this, as much as possible in public and where necessary in confidentiality. At the beginning of this second debate, I think it is important, as at the beginning of the previous debate, to outline the context in which, in 2014 and 2015, the then Minister and the then Chamber agreed to this commitment in Syria. That was when the living rooms were flooded with horrible images from Syria. There was enormous suffering from the civilian population, the use of barrel bombs, millions of refugees, enormous land gain by IS, enormous pressure on innocent civilians, attacks in Europe. At that time, a large part of the Chamber felt that part of the Chamber did indeed feel differently about the need to support those groups which, while participating in the armed struggle, were part of the moderate opposition by providing non-lethal, non-lethal support. Since 2014, this has regularly been the subject of correspondence with the Chamber. In the previous debate, Mrs Van der Graaf also pointed out that a lesson from the way in which earlier debates and exchanges of information have been conducted is that apparently many definitions led to implicit assumptions on both sides. It is therefore very sensible that then, on the basis of the Omtzigt motion (32623), no. 231) it was decided to develop a review framework. In any event, should the decision to grant NLA aid again be taken in the future, we have set out in advance how agreements should be made in advance, where the limits on equipment and the use of equipment can be laid, how information should be provided to the Chamber, how confidentiality should be dealt with. It is wise that these appointments were made last time. Against the background of that debate, I will also answer the questions now put. New to the previous debate is that, as a result of a WOB request, 1,850 pages were first posted online, but then removed from the Internet again because, unfortunately, I regret very much that a number of names had not been wiped away that should have been wiped away. I understand that this is difficult for the Chamber in the debate, but because the reasons for confidentiality, which I will go into so much further, are so urgent, it was, unfortunately, inevitable to remove those documents from the Internet for the time being, after the initial omission has been noted. But we'll come back to that. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction, I will answer the questions in three chapters. The first concerns the provision of information, the second concerns the nature of the goods used and the area of international law, and the latter contains the other subjects. First of all, the questions that have been asked about the provision of information. Ms Karabulut asked why the Lower House was not informed about the use of goods in the battle and in the battle zone. From the first letters exchanged with the Chamber about this support, we talked about supporting armed groups in the struggle in Syria; holding. For me as the minister responsible now, it is, of course, also a question of reading back what was then exchanged and said. And if I read it back in this way and take into account the horrific images of the civil war in Syria at that time, there can be no misunderstanding in this terminology in the letter and in the debate that the goods that the groups received were used in battle. That they were not combat goods, that they were non-lethal goods, civil goods, was also a clear part of the deal. But it was already clear in the letter that it was delivered to warring parties in civil war. Mrs Karabulut asked why the programme was declared state secret. That was already shared with the Chamber in 2015. In fact, Mrs Karabulut's question to me is why I did not change that compared to the decision in 2015. Those considerations, which I have previously shared with the Chamber, are threefold. Firstly, there is the consideration that this could endanger human lives. If it is known which groups have received support, it will make them even more a target. That argument is still valid, and the fight continues unabated. Then those people or groups could be targeted by revenge. The second consideration is that it involves information from the intelligence services. In traffic between the Chamber and the Cabinet, information from the intelligence services can only be shared in the confidentiality of the Intelligence and Security Services Committee. The third argument is that agreements have been made with other countries concerned, other allies, about keeping the groups supported confidential. That consideration was shared with the Chamber in 2015. I see no reason to revert now, in 2019, while those arguments remain valid, to that earlier decision. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u100	Yeah, then? I think you were just about to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u101	Yeah, I was gonna go out and get some of the classified information, but I saw Mrs. Karabulut walk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u102	Yes. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u103	That is what my question to the Minister is about. In the written reply, the Minister does not deny in any way the facts revealed by Nieuwsuur and Trouw. What consideration is so important to the Minister that he refuses to share this information publicly with the House of Representatives, so that we can have a proper debate here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u104	The assessment that has been made since 2015 and the three criteria I have just mentioned have not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u105	It's a big deal, Mr. Chairman. The minister and his predecessors have presented something to the parliament and to the Dutch people, namely that this was support for rebel groups, but that they would be used civilly. Now it turns out the opposite. In fact, jihadist groups may also be supported et cetera et cetera. Facts have come out, inter alia through documents from the Ministry but also through research work. So things have changed a lot. We want to be able to have an open and honest debate here. I think the Minister's explanation, in which he refers to criteria, is a little too lean. Can the Minister explain what his considerations are now, anno 2019, to declare this still state secret which makes this a kind of charade?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u106	It will not be declared state secret in 2019. In 2015, the state secret was declared. Mrs Karabulut is now asking me to change that. The reason I do not want to do so is that I would violate the three criteria applied from 2015. This would put at risk the groups that still exist in part and which, fortunately, still survive. I would also share part of the information from the intelligence services which can only be shared through the Intelligence and Security Services Commission. And with that, I would violate agreements with allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u107	So I think this is too skinny. What agreements do they have with allies? What kind of allies are the considerations of saying that we are not sharing this information that has already been publicly shared? This is true on all these points, because groups have become known. Those groups have spoken in the media themselves. Possibly the Dutch state has also committed itself to violating international law. Does the Minister, who should promote the international legal order, not consider it important that we should be able to judge it? Because you can't do that with this secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u108	The Chamber has had confidential access to the documents. I made sure of that myself, because I think it is important for the Chamber to be able to see those documents. But that still does not put me in a position where I can violate agreements, that I can violate those three criteria. That allies who have also demanded confidentiality is not unusual in international traffic. The same considerations apply to them, of course, namely that it could endanger human lives or that information obtained from intelligence services could come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u109	This is too abstract. If the Minister decides to keep this kind of important fact, where human rights may have been violated, also by groups supported, secret, not only to the representatives of the people but also to the Dutch people, then the Minister cannot say: this also applies to the allies. Then I want to know what considerations apply to the allies. Then I would like to add a comprehensive explanation of the substance. Otherwise, I cannot escape the impression that the Minister and his predecessors do not want us to know the truth and that we can judge on that, that they do not want us to be able to draw the right lessons from this and that they do not want us to be able to judge whether international law has been violated or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u110	But the Chamber can judge that, because the Chamber has been able to see those documents confidentially. But the arguments that applied in 2015 are still valid today. It cannot be expected that a minister now responsible will put people's lives at risk by revealing which groups were involved. A minister now responsible cannot be expected to violate agreements with allies. A minister now responsible cannot be expected to violate the confidentiality agreements that always apply with regard to intelligence services.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u111	The Minister says: I cannot now violate the agreements that have been in force since 2015. But what is new in this debate is that we know that these agreements have been broken. It's still under investigation, but let's assume it happened by accident. At least that's what I'm assuming. But they've been violated. If the Minister says he can't violate those agreements, I say the Minister violated those agreements. That happened by accident, but he violated them. This brings with it a new situation in which he may have to answer questions he has not had to answer so far, because he could say: yes, but it is confidential. In other words, didn't a new situation happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u112	I have indicated today, but also earlier, that I deeply regret what has happened. So I think it is also very important that this investigation should take place and that we should be able to assess why it has not been done away with, whether there has been deliberate action there and whether, as Mr Sjoerdsma asked, the national police should be included. Of course I want to know what happened there; it is serious enough for that. But the fact that this has happened leads to follow-up measures, the investigation, and to immediately taking that information offline so that it is not disseminated more widely. We have contacted the groups concerned. We have reported a data breach to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The measures required at the time have therefore been taken, but this does not affect the three original reasons for confidentiality, which I still feel bound by. As the government felt in 2015, the government feels that in 2019 too, even after the regrettable fact that some of the information has come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u113	So now we're in the weird situation that the Chamber has been able to take note of information that was publicly available at the time. But if we ask the Minister to explain or explain these facts, he says: they are now state secret again, so I cannot say anything about them. That makes this debate a little weird. The Minister will agree with me, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u114	Sure. It is not for nothing that I have started to say that I am very sorry, as I have done before, and that I can well imagine the uncomfortable position of the Chamber. In the past, I would have kept it confidential. I indicated at that time that, unfortunately, this had to be confidential for the reasons which I have now also explained. Then it is even more uncomfortable that some of that information has come out after all. Mr Van Ojik is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u115	Maybe the minister can confirm the following? Surely it is very likely that the information which has now been declared confidential and in which something was wrongly not wiped out will not suddenly become public again? 'Cause the minister says, "Wait a minute for that investigation." That's what you hear from colleagues: there's gonna be another investigation and then it's gonna be public again. But I dare to predict that what should now remain state secret because there may be human lives at risk, etcetera, etcetera, will soon also be state secret. That's very likely, isn't it? In other words, the information we once had should not be used anymore. Yes, we may use it, but the Minister does not have to answer for it. That's weird. That is why I said earlier in the debate: as a Chamber, we can also ask the Minister to send the information, which was public, perhaps by mistake, to the Chamber. Surely that would be a reasonable request if a majority of the Chamber were to support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u116	As Mr Van Ojik rightly points out, this information has become known by mistake. What exactly was the reason, we're investigating, but it was by mistake. That is very regrettable because it may have violated one of the three conditions that we did not want to violate. Even now that, most probably unintentionally, has happened, I still feel bound by the three framework conditions that have been applied since 2015 and that still make sense to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u117	I would like to support my colleague from GroenLinks, because I had the same question. Your state secret is no longer classified. The Chamber wants to talk about that. You do...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u118	"The Minister does..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u119	The Minister does. It's gonna be a well-nuke game all night, so we're not gonna get along with it. Soon, when those documents are re-painted, we're all gonna pretend we don't know what's under that extra block. The Minister can't be serious, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u120	To Mrs Van Weerdenburg too: I deeply regret what has happened. Nor is it true that all confidential information was publicly available at the time. It's about 30,000 lacquers. As regrettable as it may be, I can imagine from a human point of view that a number of 30,000 paint cases have been overlooked. Again, I deeply regret it. It complicates this debate, but it is no reason to suddenly say that the original reasons for confidentiality are now no longer valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u121	Mrs Karabulut, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u122	A brief question, coming back to what the Minister has just said in replying to my questions. The Minister said that this was declared state secret in 2015 and that it was then communicated to the Chamber. Can the Minister tell me where I can find it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u123	Yes. I'll give you the exact letter in the second term... I think it was in Mr De Roon's answer to parliamentary questions in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u124	Another question about the wobbled pieces. If these are all state secrets, how come they're not on them? Does the Minister have a statement to that effect, if that's a state secret?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u125	This is a very general statement. A lot of documents say it's state secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u126	Let's be honest. As far as I know, from what I've ever seen in confidential documents and so on, it's always on the documents. I haven't been able to find that on these documents. It's really a question I have. I think the Minister should be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u127	It's about 1,800 pages, so I can't tell you by heart on how many of the 1800 pages the stamp is visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u128	On the pages I've seen, I didn't see a stamp. I find that strange, because the Minister says that this is state secret. That's the toughest form of secrecy. I'd like to know if that's true, because maybe the Minister thinks it's state secret, but he doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u129	Mrs. Karabulut asked if that's on all the pages. I don't know if it's on all 1,800 pages. I don't think that's possible either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u130	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u131	I asked... Then let me ask the question differently. I don't see that stamp "State secret" on a lot of pages. Could it still be a state secret, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u132	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u133	Just so we're clear about when who gets to do something with the pieces. There are journalists who do have the documents, including the confidential documents. There are MPs who downloaded them on time and do have the documents that are state secret. As far as I know, the MPs are not allowed to say anything about that. Do you? And are we punishable if we say anything about that? Are journalists who have these state secrets allowed to reveal them, or are they punishable? Or are they approached by the AIVD: you have to turn that in? What exactly is that about? If the journalists are allowed to talk about it and so are we, then of course you will have a very strange situation. And if it's not, if someone's a criminal if he's talking about it, then that has to be clear. Otherwise, this debate will be even weirder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u134	Because it's about the very sharp question "is someone criminalized who inadvertently got their hands on information?', I would like to come back to that in second place. It's quite a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u135	Okay. Then the Minister will return to this point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u136	Look, if I've read something in Faith, I can just ask the Minister to clarify it. The point is that the Minister says: I am not answering, because that is state secret. Let me make it very clear: then perhaps the Minister can come back to that too. My problem isn't that I can't tell you. My problem is that the Minister has so far not been responsible for information which he claims to be state secret in answering the written questions. So I have a slightly different problem from Mr Van Helvert. I feel free to ask the Minister for clarification about everything I read in the paper. I'm not gonna look at any confidential documents. I'll be careful. You don't have to, because it's just in the paper. Do you understand my point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u137	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u138	I would like to know whether the Minister is prepared to answer here in the Chamber about information that I have been able to obtain in public but which is now state secret. If that is not the case, then this is indeed going to be a very strange debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u139	I can only speak with the Chamber in confidence about the information that is state secret. Mr Van Helvert's question was actually about others who have that information and whether it is criminal. I understand the question very well, but the answer is so heavy that I really want legal advice on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u140	You'll get back to that. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u141	I want to see how I can ask the next question, because I actually want to check the cabinet for that. The Amnesty International report states that a number of rebel groups participated in the months-long siege of the residential area of Aleppo. Amnesty International, who also shared that report with the Minister, calls Jabhat al-Shamiya, the Sultan Murad Brigade, Nour al-Dine, the Zenki Battalions and Brigade 13. At the time, Minister Koenders also spoke about this shame. From the public documents of Trouw en Nieuwsuur I know that among the groups I mentioned are groups supported by the Netherlands. So they've got that residential neighborhood with these stupid rockets, where "stupid" means they don't distinguish between civilians and fighters. I know that from Nieuwsuur and Trouw. That report was already known in 2016. If I ask the Minister why we supported these groups until the beginning of 2018, he can say "I can't say anything about these groups', although I do know that you know that now too; everyone knows that these groups have done so and have received support from the Dutch. Then how can I ask the Minister? Can you help me with that, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u142	Well, I don't know about that, but then I look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u143	Sure. This is exactly what we referred to last time. I cannot mention in public groups that have received support, because it could put the members of those groups at risk. So I cannot confirm or deny that either. In general terms, I have a reaction to the film that was posted online at the time, without being able to indicate whether or not that group is supported. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u144	In fact, I would suggest that you continue, because this subject on secret documents has not yet been completed. Mrs. Karabulut is coming forward now. Very quiet, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u145	I'm sorry, Mr President, but I just picked up the answers to Mr De Roon's questions. There is no mention whatsoever of state secrecy, confidentiality and/or allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u146	I shall come back to that in second place, because it is a rather thick package.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u147	Well, then, I'd like to suggest that you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u148	Yes. Mr Van Helvert asked when the documents from the WOB request will be back online. On Friday I informed the Chamber that I want it online by the end of April, because I want it thoroughly checked out. Mr Van Helvert also asked whether the IOB report should be revised, now that documents have become available on the basis of the WOB. The IOB had access to the initial reports that have become public through the WOB report. There is therefore no need to review that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u149	Here again, I would like to ask: will this be evaluated with the compilers? These are documents that allow us to monitor this policy. Based on the knowledge we gained through Nieuwsuur and Trouw, we know that a lot of things did not end up in that report. It is in itself a separate situation that we finally have an opportunity to check, but that the documents we want to check are not in there. So I did not ask so much whether the report should be revised; my question was: is this being evaluated with the people who did it? And how is it that so much crucial information didn't get in the report when they did have access to it? It could have been aggregated if necessary. Actually, it says there's pretty little going on. How's that going? I'd like to get a feedback from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u150	The work of the IOB is not, by its nature, reviewed by the Minister. The IOB has had access to the implementation reports. She has freely drawn a conclusion from that. This is her conclusion and it has been shared with the Chamber. I would not think it to be purely a matter of sending me back to an inspection which we are not supposed to send back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u151	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u152	Then Mr Van Helvert asked when the delivery of the NLA stopped. That information was also previously shared in writing. In 2018, part of the aid in the north was terminated. The Chamber was then informed confidentially about this. In March 2018, the program was terminated in Northern Syria. The last delivery was made on April 7, because at the time it was decided to end it, there were already obligations. The last delivery to the program in the south was indeed in March. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the nature and use of the goods and international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u153	Before you proceed, Mr Sjoerdsma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u154	Just to be sure, because I had also asked a number of questions about these WED documents, their consequences, the research and so on. Is the Minister still coming to that? Or did that fall between shore and ship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u155	I'm sure I'll get to some of your questions, but if you ask them again just in case, I can answer them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u156	I'll try to repeat them briefly and staccato. One question from me was whether the people and organizations mentioned in these leaked pieces are now at risk. A second question was about this committee of inquiry: who is this committee and how...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u157	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u158	Oh, you'll get back to that. And the same goes for the questions about the National Police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u159	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u160	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u161	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u162	I can't rule out the fact that these groups are at risk. That is why we immediately informed them of the fact that a number of names have unfortunately been mentioned. As far as the investigation is concerned, I have just indicated that we are first doing the investigation that is being carried out by the committee, which I will give you the names of, but that it has to be established whether there is any reason to call on the National Criminal Court as well. Because then that investigation should give indications of bad faith or the need to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u163	I would like to say a few words about this danger: the Minister was right to say, and I think that if he made the names of these groups known in a broad way, this could lead to dangerous situations. Now some of those names have come into the public domain. My question to this Minister is: has it also been found that this has resulted in dangerous situations for the persons and organisations mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u164	I cannot entirely judge that, because Syria is still a very confused area in a situation of civil war. I am not constantly informed directly about whether people are affected, imprisoned or worse because they were members of that group and that that name has also become known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u165	Let me make it clear that the Minister is saying so much that he does not currently have any indications that it has led to such cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u166	That is true, but I must add that unfortunately I cannot rule it out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u167	But that can be done if members of that group, for example a commander of Jabhat al-Shamiya, give whole interviews in The New York Times, among others? Then the Minister will no longer be able to use that argument of security to keep the documents secret and not to talk about these commanders and these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u168	If people themselves seek publicity, consciously or unconsciously, it is an action that is for their own responsibility. But that does not relieve me, as the Minister responsible, of the obligation of professional secrecy which has applied from the outset. This is for their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u169	But if the Minister uses it to get that information out of secrecy and to share it publicly with us, we can have an important debate about it in all openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u170	Then I'll go back to Mr. Sjoerdsma's question. Suppose I had given you information, and unfortunately we should have found that someone was imprisoned or worse because I had shared information here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u171	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u172	That would be terrible, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u173	These are as-than-reasons, which the Minister blames us otherwise when we pronounce them in the Chamber. I note here that the Minister can simply share that information publicly, because members and commanders of these groups are proud to talk about the goods and their activities, but even remember that the Chamber. That leaves me with one final question on this point. The minister mentioned "the allies" a few times. What allies were they? And what criteria do those allies use for keeping information secret?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u174	I have previously shared with the Chamber that we have worked together with the United States and the United Kingdom. It is known from public information that, among other things, Germany and France also had similar programmes. Each country has its own criteria for keeping information confidential or not. They are similar to the Dutch criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u175	No repetition, Mrs. Karabulut. One final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u176	Mr President, I am not repeating myself. I'm sorry to say that. The Minister uses this allies' argument to keep the information secret. My question to the Minister is: what allies ask us, the Minister not to share this information, and on what criteria? I believe that the Minister should be able to explain this when he applies this heavy instrument of secrecy, of state secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u177	I have answered both questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u178	Then I suggest you move on. That's what I meant by "repeat." Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u179	I had come to the questions about international law and the use of goods. Various sources have been consulted by the Chamber and the Ministry in assessing whether international law has operated. In the previous debate, I also referred to the fact that one of the sources of law is the 2013 EU regulation, which called on EU countries to provide non-lethal support to the moderate armed opposition. I also pointed out that a number of countries played a similar role. I just switched that with Mrs Karabulut. International law, as the name says, is international law. We note that this discussion is not taking place in any of the other countries, which is a very strong indication that there are at least different opinions on it. In the hearing with the external international legal adviser held by the Chamber, he pointed out a number of criteria to be met. He said that it depends very much on the use of goods in practice, but that there are also different opinions. Because of the nature of the goods and the criteria attached to them, I believe that we have remained within the framework of international law. A further question is: what is the distinction between offensive use and defensive use? A large number of you mentioned this, because that may also determine the previous question. I go back to communication with the Chamber from 2014-2015, indicating that it is about non-lethal support to warring groups in a civil war to maintain. It's obvious that holding on meant holding on to your front line. The aim of the programme was to maintain and thereby ensure that the population not yet living under the yoke of Assad or ISIS lives in reasonable living conditions. But that could only be achieved by combat, defensive combat. Then you come to the difficult question, Mr Van Helvert, who also asked in all sharpness whether you can distinguish between defensive and offensive. That's a tricky line. I also think that this is one of the relevant questions for the investigation requested by the motion in the previous debate. If in defending such a front line you have the information that a cannon is installed a few hundred yards away that can shoot at your front line or your civilian population, and if you do an outburst to capture that cannon, is that defensive or offensive? In a situation of shifting front lines, it is difficult to define defensive and offensive properly. We discussed this in detail last time. Again, the letter has always referred to the maintenance of armed groups in the struggle. Goods delivered are not lethal, no weapons, no means of fighting. But that it was used in a struggle was in that letter. Mrs Karabulut asked whether it would be contrary to international law if goods had gone to terrorist groups. Without mentioning the groups, because I cannot do that in public, I can say that the groups that have supported the Netherlands are not on the UN or EU lists of terrorist organisations. A test could certainly take place along that line. When it comes to the nature of the goods, the criterion used by the EU in arms export licences has been used. There are lists of purely military goods and dual-use goods. The goods that were delivered, whether they were cars or vests in which indeed warehouses could be attached, are not on either list. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether you should not actually develop other criteria. You'll end up in a gray area very quickly. Internationally, at least in the EU, it has been established that certain goods are allowed and the rest are not. So you would create your own category. That makes it difficult for me to go through other lists. Mr President, I see Mr Sjoerdsma standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u180	Yes, I see him too, but it might be good to finish this issue on the nature of the goods and international law. Mr Van Ojik is also here. I have also seen Mr Van Helvert. I see Mrs Karabulut, too. So I'll give you an opportunity to interrupt later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u181	Mr Van Helvert asked a question, building on the question of what is defensive or offensive and what is an act of war. The transfer documents shall contain the text: the vehicles should not be used for purposes other than transportation, frontline improvement and logistical or communication support. That is why a restrictive list was given which amounts to defensive action. As I have just pointed out in detail, this is typically one of the things that should be done more clearly in a review framework, because this has apparently been the kind of implicit discussion that has been held in recent years, and it is now clear in every detail that it must be clarified at the beginning in order to avoid misunderstandings as to what type of goods could have been used and under what circumstances. Then Mr Van Helvert also asked which groups were accused by the UN and Amnesty of human rights violations. The complicated thing is that I can only answer that question in conjunction with the list that I cannot share in public. Unfortunately, I cannot answer that question for you, but the Amnesty and UN reports are of course public. Mr Öztürk claimed that the Netherlands would have paid the pay. Yeah, I read that somewhere, in the paper, I think. The Netherlands has not paid salaries under NLA. In some cases, however, relatively small amounts of cash have been paid to performers, to commanders. This was intended to buy products that were cheaper or easier available in Syria than in Turkey. That could be food, for example. That expenditure has also been accounted for. I understood, moreover, that yesterday's hearing on international law explicitly stated that financial contributions would once again fall within international law. I know that there is a debate on this too, but it is precisely on the basis of Mr Öztürk's example that it is good to draw attention to the debate on the financial contribution. Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Kikken asked me to go into the message 'I thought that was also in a television programme 'that arms export restrictions would have been avoided'. That is not the case. The goods were exported legally, including through the customs authorities where that was the case. The restrictions mentioned in the document had to do with the actual circumstances at the border and not with arms exports restrictions, as suggested in the television broadcast. If there were restrictions at the border, that border was sometimes part of the war zone and was also controlled by groups that had interests in it, for example, it was chosen to deliver smaller numbers or to deliver via different border crossings, because there were capacity problems at a border crossing. It could also be that a border crossing was completely closed. Again, there was a civil war situation there. The restrictions that these documents refer to are practical restrictions of this kind at border crossing points. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the role of the external international legal adviser. Shouldn't he be able to advise unsolicited? When it comes to the Chamber itself, the Chamber is always free to ask Mr Nollkaemper for his opinion. That has also been used. At the request of Professor Nollkaemper himself, the contract between him and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was renewed in 2015, agreed to advise only on capacity restrictions on his side. When the contract with the external international legal adviser expires next year, we can of course look again at the exact conditions in that contract. This brings me to the end of the questions about the nature of the goods and international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u182	I was just about to give Mr Sjoerdsma the floor. You don't have to do that anymore? Did it take that long?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u183	I'll listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u184	I was ahead of Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u185	No, it was there before. But it doesn't matter at all. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u186	I was there a little earlier, but then you weren't looking at me. Anyway, that's not so important. Let's get back to the minister and the restrictions. I understand from experts that the restrictions have been deliberately violated. Suppose an organisation other than the Dutch State would have done so in this case, would it still be found guilty and punished? Very fast, clever and clever methods have been developed to get the goods there anyway. These methods are not in accordance with the standards and laws that are used there, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u187	I have seen that the suggestion has been raised that arms export restrictions have been bypassed. I have just explained in detail that this is not right and that it was about practical restrictions at the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u188	Yes, but then you still violate a number of treaties, laws and agreements. Under your responsibility, therefore, officials are instructed not to enforce rules, but to violate them. It's the same thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u189	What laws and treaties are violated when practical restrictions at the border are resolved by, for example, supplying smaller parties with goods?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u190	Well, look. The most important thing is that the experts say 'I am not expert in'successful' that all kinds of conditions have been created so as not to stand out and do large quantities at once. There are therefore a number of laws that have to be enforced and enforced. They're right to ask that question. That's the question I'm asking you, because you're letting it all happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u191	Sure. But then it helps if you indicate which laws or treaties have been bypassed. I have just indicated to you that the assumption that the word'restrictive' refers to arms restrictions was incorrect. You are now saying that other laws or treaties have been bypassed. Then you really need to help the debate by indicating which laws or treaties they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u192	If you were allowed to transport those trucks or other items to Syria in large numbers, why didn't you? So you have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u193	The Minister has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u194	The Minister has willingly and knowingly... The minister and his officials knew that they couldn't, so they did it in small numbers. In principle, therefore, they violated the rules there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u195	This is very much a repetition of moves. The question is what happened at the time at the border. On the basis of the word "limitation" in the documents that have come out, a number of people have assumed that these were arms export restrictions. I have already indicated that these are not the restrictions that were meant in that document. So I cannot remember any laws or treaties that would have been violated by them. Mr Öztürk is quite sure that this must be the case, but he must also tell us which laws or treaties they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u196	In this little block of the Minister's speech, it was at the beginning that we were talking about that aspect of international law. In my contribution I said that I have heard three different views. The external international legal adviser says that it does not matter whether it is civil, lethal or non-letal. It's the same thing in international law. Then you have the internal advice the minister has received. That is, apparently, roughly as follows: if it is civil, it can reduce the risks of international law. Let me just say it in my own words. And the Minister is quite sure: we have remained within international law. I can't necessarily reconcile these three different visions. I would like the Minister, like me, to be curious and say: let's find out exactly if what I say is true. The minister says it went well, but the others might think otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u197	I have made it even worse in the direction of Mr Van Ojik, because I have added two other sources, including the 2013 European Commission Directive, which actually instructed Member States to provide non-lethal support. That's also a legal source. There is also the observation that we know that a large number of countries have provided similar support to similar groups, but have never had a debate on whether this would be contrary to international law. Since international law should have the same implications in those countries as in the Netherlands, you can derive from that.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have acted in accordance with international law, which says that the use and nature of the goods determine whether there is a conflict with international law. The nature of the goods remained within the lines. I have indicated that the list used by the EU has been looked at. There were never any items on that list. The stakes were defensive, with the description of the delivery terms as I just gave them. So there was surgery within international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u198	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u199	I have heard that there was no debate about it in other countries, but that is a very strange conclusion from the Minister. He says that there was no debate on the aspects of international law, and I can conclude that it was within the limits of international law. If we start like this, I'll tell you the truth, I'll know a few more. That's not an argument. That is no basis for the Minister's statement. Even though it is not discussed throughout the world, that does not in any way relieve this minister of the obligation to weigh himself, with his internal advisers and with his external advisers, whether or not he has remained within the limits of international law. Those other countries, frankly, have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u200	Mr Van Ojik started with a wording that I do not recognize, because he puts something in my mouth that I did not say. He said that the fact that there is no debate in other countries already leads the Minister to conclude that there would be no conflict with international law. But I didn't say it like that. I said that at the top of the three different angles you mentioned, there are others. One of them was indeed indeed a matter of urgency, and you are right to point out that the internal international legal advice requested in the Ministry is correct. You're right about that. That had to be requested. That led to the conclusion I gave: there was an operation within the international mandate. The other four views and angles are also all relevant. You mention a few, but you'll have to forgive me for mentioning the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u201	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u202	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u203	Not having a debate on something isn't a vision, is it? You can't say: I'm putting a vision aside of all those other countries, because there was no debate on the international law aspect? That's my problem with the Minister's answer. He says that it is an extra vision, namely that there has been no debate in all those other countries. Well, that's a bad thing they didn't debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u204	I think Mr Van Ojik is getting over this again. The question of international law is being debated in depth here. That's good in a democracy. In general, the experts consulted say quite literally that this question of international law can be considered differently. Mr Van Ojik cannot blame me for pointing out in that palette that other countries, which are really following what is happening in the Netherlands and which, apparently, all of them see no reason to have that debate. You can't brush that away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u205	The Minister refers to the EU directive, which says that you can import non-lethal relief goods without the permission of the Syrian government. So that is not permission for lethal goods; that is not the same. The WOB documents say that the leaders of the rebel groups say that the pickups are essential for the combat operations; they are the main goods for warriors on the front lines and they are used to transport warriors, weapons, ammunition and other equipment to the headquarters of the battlefield. That's one point in the information. The second point is that rebel groups supported by the Netherlands, as we know by Trouw and Nieuwsuur, also chose the offensive, namely at the siege of Aleppo and in Turkey, at Euphrates Shield. Why didn't the Ministry immediately stop supplying equipment at the time it knew that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u206	These are a number of arguments to each other. You started with your question about the 2013 EU directive and said that it does not give the right to supply lethal goods. I agree. No lethal goods have been delivered either; only goods not included in the EU list have been delivered. Another question asked by Mr Van Helvert is whether there has been an act based on the information that goods were used incorrectly or that battle groups were acting offensively. With the Room it is shared that iron bars were mounted on pick-up trucks, which could be used to mount machine guns. That's what's been interfered with. The Chamber was informed confidentially of the reasons for termination in January. The answer to the question of whether there has been an act is: yes, there has been an act. I also indicated in the previous debate that because of the unclear situation, with civil war, shifting alliances and shifting front lines, I cannot rule out the fact that there was also a breach of the agreements that had been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u207	I also understand that in a war situation everything is difficult. But I'm now presenting information that you can combine. We know that information through Trouw and Nieuwsuur and by what the leaders of the rebel groups say. We therefore know that rebel groups supported by the Netherlands chose the offensive. They say: those pickups that the Netherlands sent were fantastic, and we had great use of them, including for those offensive operations. They do not specifically say that they have used them only defensively; no, just in combat operations. And we know that they have also chosen the offensive on several points. If you know at that point that the chance is very likely that it was used offensively, why didn't you decide to quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u208	I think there's two things mixed up. There have been a number of interviews with people I cannot confirm nor deny that they were involved in that fight. Those interviews were mostly afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u209	I can confirm that here, because that is information that I do have and may share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u210	In any case, I know a number of interviews at the end of the interviews again, I can't tell whether or not they were interviews with people involved in that struggle who couldn't influence decisions during the duration, until early 2018. During the term, if there were any signals, some of which I have just shared, they were acted on. I must also add that I cannot rule out the fact that there have also been offensive situations that were not known again, it was a chaotic situation, a civil war that has not been acted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u211	The issue is not "offensive" or "defensive" or such terms as the Minister introduces. Yesterday, where international law experts Mr Knoops and Mr Voermans, as well as the external international law adviser Mr Nollkaemper are in agreement, it is not about the nature of the goods, i.e. civil, non-civil or lethal, non-lital, but about whether they are being used in the fight, in this case in the fight against the regime of Mr Assad. So it's about the practical effects. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u212	Maintaining the supply of non-lethal goods, the government does not consider it to be contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u213	That wasn't my question. I repeat my question. People's right experts believe that it is not about the nature of the goods, but about whether they are used in battle. Does the Minister share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u214	But now Mrs Karabulut uses a sentence as if it had been used alone and so firmly. Mr Nollkaemper has also indicated that it depends on the specific circumstances and that different views are possible. Prior to this, an opinion was requested from the international consultant. In the design of the NLA programme, therefore, the choice was made for those non-lethal goods and for the cross-compliance conditions as set out in the delivery conditions. And with that, in the opinion of the government, has remained within the international mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u215	The Minister is not answering, and that is sad. By now we know that as a Chamber we were told falsehoods, namely that cars would be delivered to dear rebels. That's not right. They were pick-up trucks, which were delivered to among others one group, Al-Shamiya, who was also involved in the attack on Afrin. It is highly likely that international law, that international law, the minister has been appointed here to comply with that law, violates it. My question to the Minister is: why does the Minister say that afterward, now, it is not appropriate to have an external international investigation carried out so that we can establish that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u216	Because the review took place: in advance, and by the international experts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the programme. Then it doesn't make sense to look at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u217	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u218	The Minister refuses, and he refuses over and over again. How is it that the D.A. sees Al-Shamiya as a terrorist organization and wants to condemn people who participated in that fight in Syria via Al-Shamiya, while the Minister simply shrugs his shoulders on it? How is it that our Foreign Minister, who has the constitutional task of promoting the international legal order, is actually looking away and does not want to know the truth about whether or not human rights have been violated here? The Minister just doesn't explain it. So he doesn't want to know. That is very serious, in addition to the falsehoods that have been told and which the Minister is persevering here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u219	I leave the word "infidelities" on Mrs Karabulut's behalf. Mrs Karabulut would have asked if a particular group was involved in the battle in Afrin. That information was shared confidentially with the Chamber. I cannot go into that in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u220	About the pickups used to transport fighters and ammunition to the front. The minister mentioned logistical support, logistical support, as an example of a definition that could be better defined in a review framework. I was wondering how he saw that. Are we going to agree that they can only use those pickups for trips to the supermarket or for commuting? How am I supposed to imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u221	I believe that the House in the motion has proposed to seek advice from the AIV and the CAVV. I think it would be wise to ask for that advice, and I do not think it would be useful if I were to speculate on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u222	One last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u223	Thank you. The Minister just said that once people knew that the goods would be used offensively, they acted. But how can it be that, after the minister's predecessor informed us on 1 or 2 February that no goods would be delivered when it was found that they were being used against, for example, the Kurds, in this case in Afrin, were still delivered on 9 February to Al-Shamiya, which was characterized by the State as a terrorist organisation? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u224	Mrs Karabulut asks me to answer the question of whether and when a specific group has been delivered. That information can only be shared in confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u225	No, Mrs Karabulut, I'm going to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u226	All I can see is that the Minister does not deny it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u227	I'm going to see Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u228	I have a question about the document in which the Minister previously answered my questions. He said I'd want new rules. For the sake of clarity, I don't want that. I am very familiar with the EU Military List and the EU Dual-Use List. About the goods delivered, I had two points. One: the jackets delivered are not covered by those rules, but were also not intended to carry tennis rackets, let's say. I totally agree that it was not subject to licence under the rules, but it still feels a bit like it's really on the edge. I'd like a comment from the Minister on that. My second question was more about removing the uncertainty as to whether it was subject to authorisation or not. Is there not an independent body to which these goods can be presented, so that they can be assessed independently and that uncertainty can be cleared once and for all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u229	I'll start with the last question. There is no such instance to my best knowledge. The first question was whether there is another possibility of further defining goods in addition to the list. I can very well imagine that question being put to the AIV and the CAVV. I have just pointed out that it will be complicated, but we realize that we are facing complex questions at all, should we ever decide on a similar action again. Well, then we'd like to make it to the ice. So I think it would be a logical route to ask this question there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u230	Partly that is logical, but part of it refers to the discussions on the licensing obligation and what has been exchanged earlier, namely not to use it for actions of an offensive nature; let me put it this way. As I said before, in those vests, long weapons and ammunition can be used. Of course you can use it to defend yourself, but it's already a big step further than laptops, photo cameras, a kidney stone grinder, food and that sort of thing. It really goes towards something that can be deployed offensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u231	Yes. Again, in the program we're looking back on... For the future, I think this is a logical question to ask once again very consciously, with experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u232	I'd like to know how far you're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u233	I'm at my last chapter. I don't have many more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u234	That's what I thought. Then I suggest we finish that first. Yes, I've seen you standing, Mr. Van Ojik. First the Minister for the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u235	Mr Van Helvert just asked me when interrupting to comment on what was already discussed in the previous debate: a YouTube recording, I thought from 2016, of the Sultan Murad Brigade bombing the Sheikh Maqsood neighborhood at Aleppo. At that time, there was a struggle going on in Aleppo between the Assad regime, which was supported by the Kurds, which illustrates once again how the alliances have shifted from one time to the other, and the Sultan Murad Brigade. I cannot go into the question of whether or not the Sultan Murad Brigade was supported. The video itself does not give a clear answer to the question of whether or not there has been a violation of war law. Mr Van Helvert asked when there was an act on signals that there was a breach of the agreements. The example of the rods on the car was from May 2017. I've already answered the question when it stopped. Mr Van Helvert asked why another delivery was made in April. This is because the programme stopped in March, but agreements had already been made on ongoing deliveries. In fact, one last delivery took place on 7 April. That was also shared in the written questioning round. Mrs Van der Graaf asked about the state of play regarding the development of the review framework. That is actually in the hands of the Chamber, because that is where the Chamber must take the next step. You have my full cooperation. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the Netherlands supported the same groups as Turkey. Turkey was one of the countries that also had an NLA programme. As far as confidentiality is concerned, I cannot say in public which groups we might have supported together. Mr Sjoerdsma asked who was on the Committee of Inquiry into the non-squeezing of a number of names. It was set up by the Secretary-General of my ministry and is headed by the security officer. Members of the Committee are researchers of the Security, Crisis Management and Integrity Directorate. The researchers are externally attracted but are employed by the Ministry. Reports shall be made directly to the Secretary-General. There is no further direction from those involved in the ministry. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u236	Yes, thank you. Has there been a question left somewhere that hasn't been answered? Yeah? Then I will start with Mr Van Ojik, who was there earlier. And not going to sum it all up, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u237	I'd like that, too. Perhaps it would be a good time if I were to do that briefly and concisely, as you are used to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u238	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u239	Anyway, it's an offer. I just wanted to come back to that point. A number of specific questions have been asked by colleagues and by me the Minister says: I cannot answer them, given confidentiality. One is about what happened at the beginning of February, when the attack in Afrin was launched by Turkey with the support of Syrian groups. On 1 February, the Foreign Minister said to the Chamber: once we knew that there was cooperation with the Turkish troops, we stopped the aid. That was what the Foreign Minister said on 1 February. My question is very simple: is the Chamber, given what we know now when we look back on it, properly informed at that time by the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u240	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u241	Mr Sjoerdsma also has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u242	I'll come back to that committee for a little while. I have two questions about that. The composition is clear. When are the results of this committee expected? Do I understand correctly that the departmental leadership will then decide for itself whether the Rijksrecherche will be in the picture? In other words, is the organisation going to decide whether someone in their own organisation should be further investigated? Or is that decision being put down somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u243	Those are specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u244	That decision shall be taken by the Secretary-General. For this it is necessary that there is a suspicion of gross negligence or criminal action, because you cannot just use the National Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u245	Mr. Sjoerdsma, you had another question. I think you asked at the beginning when the results were expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u246	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u247	When? Also at the end of April.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u248	Thank you. Mr Van Helvert also has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u249	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I came earlier, but then you said, "Let's finish this block."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u250	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u251	The Minister gave an example: at the moment we knew that there were rods made on those pickups to put machine guns or other things on them, we acted. That acting was a letter in which you said: men, you can't do that anymore. What are the principles behind this? Why hasn't the trade-off been made to say, boys, you're not sticking to the deal, but it's about life and death; we're stopping this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u252	I would like to come back to this. That was in 2017, so that's for archival research. I'll see if I can figure that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u253	In the second term or in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u254	I hope in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u255	Good. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u256	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there has been unfair communication on support to armed groups in Syria;]] [[declares confidence in this minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that lawyers questioned whether the programme with which the Netherlands supported armed groups in Syria remained within the limits of international law;]] [[Whereas the Constitution states that the Government promotes the development of the international legal order;]] [[calls on the Commission to provide advice on international law issues (CAVV) to investigate the extent to which the Dutch support to armed groups has been in breach of international law;]] [[calls on the Government to grant the CAVV access to all relevant information in order to investigate this, including any secret or confidential information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in 2011, as a result of the Iraq investigation (Davids Commission), an external international legal adviser (EFTA) was appointed;]] [[noting that the mandate of the external international advisor was amended in 2015, which prevented him from advising on his own initiative;]] [[Whereas the foreign international legal adviser was not requested by the Minister for Legal Affairs with regard to support for armed groups in Syria;]] [[noting that the external international legal adviser stated that the system provided for by the Davids Committee had not worked adequately in this case;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the change of mandate and, if necessary, to provide more resources so that the external international advisor can now also advise on his own initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-249]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-250]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u257	Finally, Mr President. Because information has been withheld, because it has not been communicated fairly, because it has turned out to be military, because international law may have been violated, I do not think that we should stand aside as a Chamber and conduct our own investigation into the facts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that questions about the revelations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw about support from the Netherlands to armed groups in Syria have not been adequately answered and concerns about (effect of) this support have not been adequately addressed;]] [[decides to conduct its own investigation into all relevant aspects of Dutch support to armed groups in Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u258	Mr. Chairman. As you understand, we'll...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u259	No. You're...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u260	... continue with an NLA support debate 3.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u261	You are well over your speaking time, Mrs Karabulut. Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u262	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. What must always be at the forefront is that we must keep the Netherlands safe. We are talking about a horrible war in Syria with a lot of terrorists, a source of evil that has also reached the Netherlands, and with Assad as a mass slaughterer. It's a good thing we're performing. We are proud of the performance of our F-16s, who bombed ISIS. We need to learn from this program. It's very good that we're going to do that. I'd like to leave it at that for now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u263	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. Then I give now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u264	It's only 9:30!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u265	A very short question, then, because you have had enough debate with each other, at least in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u266	Is the VVD group also proud of the outcome of this support programme for the so-called moderate Syrian rebel groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u267	The VVD considered it very important that we fought against the terrorists of ISIS. We also agreed to this programme because we wanted to see an end to the enormous flow of refugees, that the fight against ISIS would also be fought by the moderate rebels, and that the people there would be helped somewhat with stability. That's important. The fact that things went wrong in the program we knew in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u268	This was also widely exchanged between the two of you in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u269	Absolutely. You allow the question. I just want to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u270	No, we're not gonna repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u271	It's good to hear the VVD say: we have to learn from this. I think it is also good that the VVD spokesperson explains exactly what they have learned from this, so that we can judge whether they have really learned something or whether they are pretending to have learned something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u272	Then I invite Mr Öztürk to look at my first-term contribution, because he can also learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u273	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u274	No, no, no, no. That's not an answer, Mr. Chairman. That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u275	No. Thank you. It's your turn, Mr. Öztürk. No, sorry! I've skipped Mr Van Helvert. I'm sorry. It's never good, is it? If I forget Mr Öztürk, he says: you can't see that I'm here. And when I give him the floor, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u276	Madam President. I had hoped today to better understand why the Ministry decided to continue when we knew that groups supported by the Netherlands participated in offensive actions. That doesn't tell us whether we like the fight against ISIS or not. The point is that in the last letter, the Ministry suddenly announced that it is a question of whether you are using something defensive or offensive. That is absolutely new, because in all the previous discussions we were mainly talking about whether something is lethal or not, to which groups the materials were provided and whether they were used in battle. In the last letter there is for the first time 'defensive or offensive'. That is actually a kind of shift, so suddenly it is no longer necessarily bad that Dutch material has been used in a battle. Whatever wasn't allowed before, it's okay now, as long as it's defensive. We now know that there are groups that have also gone on the offensive. Whether it is good or not that they have gone against ISIS on the offensive, everyone can say something about that. The question is: if they have gone on the offensive, if we know that and if we have said that we should not, why did we go on? Finally. The Minister cannot, of course, say whether they have been supported by the Dutch government or not. The question is: has the Levant Front, according to the cabinet, already taken part in the invasion of Afrin before 9 February? Madam President. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als we de uitkomsten hebben van de CAVV en de AIV, zullen we ...]] Mr Sjoerdsma said: we should have done that. I myself thought: let's wait until we have had this debate. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, we can get started tomorrow right away. I'm fine with that. It's nice to see the emergency on that side, too. We will need to know what the Minister says at the WOB requests at the end of April.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u277	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u278	Thank you, Mr President. If we listen to the Minister's answers, we can see that he hasn't learned much from this. He shields himself with state secrets, while the journalists know even more than the Chamber in total. We get new information every week and he still tries to hide behind the so-called state secrets and hide his mistakes. It can't be. Mrs Karabulut has rightly tabled a motion to ensure that we deal with the Chamber in a different way. In addition, I have a motion, which I would like to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in recent years ministries have declared information too often and unnecessarily confidential, to the displeasure of several parliamentary committees of inquiry;]] [[Whereas representatives of the people cannot control the government if ministers declare crucial data to state secrets;]] [[considers that a minister has a fairly large freedom to declare information secret;]] [[Considers that this makes it too easy for ministers to use the State secret label to avoid difficult questions;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the capacity of directors to make concrete use of the State secret instrument and to monitor the concrete consequences of the improper use of this instrument,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u279	Mr President, I have already said that GroenLinks has always supported this programme. We have done so in full awareness of the risks associated with these kinds of programmes and also on the thin line that you always have to run between let me say offensive and defensive, between civil and military, and between moderate and sometimes less moderate. Frankly, we all know that there are risks involved. It is essential that the cabinet informs the Chamber 100% adequately in such precarious cases and that we have no doubt about it. For this reason, I regret that this debate has shown that the Minister is not prepared, for example, to have a proper independent examination of the issue of international law, on which we have heard all kinds of different opinions. We can learn from that. I also regret that facts made public by the Ministry itself, whether by mistake or for any undesirable reason, are now so confidential that the Minister says: I really cannot say anything about this anymore. That's too bad, because that limits the ability to learn. At the end of April it will take another three months; why should it take another three months? The pieces come online again. I predict that if it is not, the Minister must now say that the same thing is now confidential will be confidential. Then we're just as far away as we are now. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once more to look carefully at whether what he has labelled as a'state secret' and has ever made himself public can not be made public. And I would ask him to re-examine his position on the international correctness of Dutch policy with an independent source.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u280	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u281	Thank you, Madam President. I would first like to thank the Minister for his answers. He cannot answer all the questions, but he claims that the Chamber has been properly informed. That doesn't completely remove the inconvenience, but I'm well aware that we have to deal with this now. The Minister has agreed to publish the documents from the WOB request at the end of April. I agree with the question as to whether this could be done earlier. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. We know there are ongoing investigations into the leaking of state secrets. The Advisory Committee on International Law and the AIV are also examining further, indeed at the request of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I promised to come back to the following. The Netherlands has also provided air support in the fight against ISIS. We also note that the threats have not yet been removed. We also called on the Minister to discuss this with his European colleagues, and he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u282	Mrs Karabulut, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u283	One question: is the position of the Christian Union still that the bottom stone must emerge and that we must assess whether international law has been exceeded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u284	I have just indicated which investigations we are still waiting for. We're waiting for the results of that. I leave it to what I said in this second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u285	But this was the very clear position of the Christian Union group. Is that still the position of the Christian Union: yes or no? I am not talking about the debate 3.0, or what is to come, or the leap forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u286	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u287	I understand Mrs Karabulut's question very well. I also know what she is referring to, but I stand by the answer I have just given in my second term speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u288	You would also come back to my first-term question as to whether the Christian Union still supports sending funds to YPG you can use different terms for this, which are therefore working with the terrorist organisation PKK, for which you can also use different terms. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u289	I have just answered this question in my second term, and I will leave it at that. I would simply ask Mr Öztürk to look again at what I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u290	Thank you, Mr Öztürk. Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I shall now give Mrs Kuik the floor. No, she doesn't. Then I will go to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u291	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for replying in the first term. I would like to outline once again the context in which this programme was launched. I did the same in the first term, but I think we should keep remembering that it was then about a group of people, a group of Syrians who were trapped between Assad on the one hand and IS on the other. I think we should also remember that the risks of this programme were described in detail by the then cabinet, then Minister Koenders, and that there were also clear agreements with the Chamber on how that programme would be designed. The risks were known. The agreements were not met. We have already seen this in the previous debate. That was about monitoring. That was about the selection. That was also about international legal risks. When I look at this debate, for me, that conclusion has not changed much. What we need to do now is to draw lessons and instruct the Joint Committee of the CAVV and the AIV to develop that review framework as soon as possible so that we can move forward. Finally, Madam President. I also think it is very important that independent, unsolicited external international legal advice can be provided. Whether that should be in the form of a single international consultant or a whole committee, I do not mind, but I would like to ask this Minister to ensure that the contract cannot be a restrictive factor in this, so that that independent advice can be at his disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u293	Does the D66 Group agree that we should be able to know whether there has been an operation under international law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u294	We have also discussed this extensively in the previous debate. We have agreed two conclusions on this, and they have not really changed. The first is that this minister says that international law has acted. The second is that as a Chamber I will only say it once more; I look at myself, but I also look at you have agreed that there will be a commission from the AIV and the CAVV who will look at this and then take lessons from it. I also expect that committee to come to that conclusion with us. I therefore hope that Mrs Karabulut will speed up this committee with me as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u295	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u296	I find this really very disappointing. That committee does not check whether or not international law has been exceeded, and Mr Sjoerdsma knows this very well. Why do I find it so disappointing? Because Mr Sjoerdsma does, in fact, attach importance to international law every time, including at other times, at least that is what I thought. But apparently that does not matter now, because he wants to protect the minister and the position of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u297	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u298	I find that really unheard of for D66, which is always full of human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u299	Well, I have to say honestly that the Minister did not need me in this debate to protect himself from Mrs Karabulut's questions. What matters, which I believe is crucial, is that we, as a Chamber, describe the mandate for this committee. If Mrs Karabulut wants to accept that that committee is not looking at it, that is her choice. It has also chosen today to table a motion of censure. It is possible; that is her right. My group will not support this motion. That won't surprise Mrs Karabulut. The importance that my group attaches to international law and international law is beyond doubt, but I do say that to Mrs Karabulut on the basis of all available information, public and confidential, as it should be for a Member of Parliament. Do I prefer it in public? Yes. But if I can't, I'll take it confidentially. I would advise Mrs Karabulut to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u300	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u301	Mr. Chairman. State secret information is on the street, but this minister doesn't want anyone to look at it, and he doesn't want to talk about it with the Chamber. What a bizarre setup. In this debate, the VVD colleague called for a sense of reality, but this Minister of the VVD House does not speak of reality, nor, unfortunately, of common sense or logic. That is why my group, the PVV, will shortly vote in favour of Mrs Karabulut's motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u302	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'll see if the minister can answer directly. That's the case. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut asked in the first time when exactly the Court had been informed that the information on the NLA was confidential. I'd come back to that. That was indeed in response to Parliamentary questions from Mr De Roon in April 2015. It states: in the interests of the security of the parties involved in the Dutch aid, the cabinet does not make statements about groups where support is envisaged. Then Mrs Karabulut also asked me in the first term to answer the question of how there could be documents on which she did not find a stamp of "State secret." Point one: we are in the process of going through all these documents again in the context of the investigation. In addition, the classification "State secret" refers to information and not necessarily to documents. For example, the information may also take the form of mail or prints from mail. That will not be a document with a stamp on it. Mrs Karabulut has tabled a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u304	A very short question, Mrs Karabulut. We are not going to repeat the debate in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u305	Oh, you're so strict today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u306	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u307	I understand. But this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u308	You've had plenty of room to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u309	This is a very short question. I put it because the Minister said to my question that in 2015 answers to written questions from Mr De Roon to the Chamber indicated that this was state secret. That's not right. It doesn't say that. So I want to know from the Minister when and how we were told in 2015 that all this was state secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u310	I just gave the quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u311	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u312	But I conclude that that is not correct and that the Minister is again not telling us the truth or, even more importantly, perhaps lying here, because I have it here on my smartphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u313	You say I shouldn't look so hard, but I always look hard, especially around this time of year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u314	Mrs Karabulut uses great words here, while I have just read a literal quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u315	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u316	The first motion by Mrs Karabulut, on item No. 249, is a motion of censure. That's what I'm telling you. The second motion by Mrs Karabulut, on item No. 250, requests "to grant access to all relevant information to enable it to be investigated, including any secret or confidential information'. Last time, it was agreed that the CAVV would be given a mandate, which apparently still needs to be given, to develop a review framework for future NLA aid if it were to be decided in the future. In doing so, the CAVV will have access to all necessary information. That's a forward-looking investigation. This motion calls for another look back. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 251, also by Mrs Karabulut, calls on the Government to reverse the change in the mandate, which concerns the mandate of the international consultant................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I indicated that the restriction was at the request of the international consultant the last time. So we can't just reverse that one-sidedly. The current contract expires on 30 April 2019. Mr Sjoerdsma discussed the future contract with the international consultant. That is indeed relevant. It involves the possibility of unsolicited advice. That is also the point made by Mrs Karabulut. He also mentioned the size of a possible group of international advisers. I think that is both relevant considerations. I therefore advise against this motion, but I will involve the aspects mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma in a new contract and inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u317	Before you continue... Mrs Karabulut, if you really want to ask a real factual question in response to Mr De Roon's written questions, you must do so now, but without conclusions, because they have already been drawn; the motions have already been tabled. So just a real actual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u318	Mr President, it was just a question of fact. The Minister informed us that in 2015 it was reported in that written reply that this programme would have been declared state secret. It doesn't say that here. My question to the Minister is: where can I find it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u319	In the answer to the question, that question from 2015, it says it's confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u320	No. It doesn't even say it's confidential. I would like to emphasise this because it concerns the information position of the Chamber. If you declare a state secret, you must come from a very good house and you must be able to justify it. It is the highest form of confidentiality. That's gotta be decided sometime. The Minister stated in the first term: it is in that reply. It doesn't say that. The Minister claims it's there. I've found that's a lie. But now I want to know where I can find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u321	I shall leave the big words to Mrs Karabulut. She's asking for support. The answer is: in the interests of the security of the parties involved in the Dutch aid, the cabinet does not make any statements about the group to which support is envisaged. The basis is in the answer you referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u322	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u323	The motion in part No. 252 is an appeal to the Chamber itself, so I do not have to judge it. Mr Van Helvert had two further questions from the first term. The first question was whether there was criminality, for example with a journalist using state secret information. The consultation that I have just had in writing really leads me to the conclusion that I want to leave the judgment to the Public Prosecutor and that I am not going to make any statements about it myself. Mr Van Helvert also asked in the first period why, when it was found in 2017 that iron bars were mounted on pick-ups that could also be used for machine guns, it was decided to impose the requirement that those rods be removed and not to give no more support at all. Since the requested removal took place and the objective pursued at the time with the NLA was still in place, it was decided at that time that the aid itself could continue. The question about the Levant Front can only be answered in confidence. Mr Öztürk referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. A motion for a resolution has also been tabled on confidentiality with a number of considerations which I cannot share. He says that ministries in recent years have overstated information too often and unnecessarily confidentially. He says ministers throw too easily with the "state secret" label to avoid difficult questions. So I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u324	Mr Van Helvert, I shall first give the floor to Mr Öztürk for the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u325	What do you think of the operative part? Suppose I remove the considerations, what do you think of the operative part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u326	Your considerations do not disappear, even if you remove them. So I'm gonna keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u327	If you want to prove that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u328	That the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u329	If the Minister wants to prove that the "State secret" instrument is not being used too often, can he be in favour of an investigation being carried out or that it is being monitored?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u330	I don't feel that way either. Once again, the whole suggestion behind it is therefore important what Mr Öztürk wrote about it and says that it is constantly being used unjustly. I do not share that suggestion, whether or not it is in the motion. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u331	I don't think you're approaching each other. Then Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u332	The question about the Levant Front can only be answered confidentially. I suspect the Minister thinks I have asked whether the Levant Front has been supported by the Netherlands. That was not my question, because I know that the Minister cannot reply to it in relation to confidentiality at the moment. My question was whether, according to the cabinet, the Levant Front took an active part in the raid in Afrin before 9 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u333	I would like to come back to that in writing, because I do not remember that. If that's public, I'll do it publicly. If it's confidential, it's confidential. Mr Van Ojik once again referred to his wish to conduct an independent international investigation. I indicated in the first period that, given the advice received in advance and the framework during the course of the journey, I do not think that this is necessary. He and Mrs Van der Graaf asked if the investigation could be speeded up. I belong to the Chamber understandably the great disappointment that confidential information has come out. I have that disappointment, too. The Chamber knows it was 1,850 pages and really thousands of paint operations. There is the question as to why it went wrong. The combination of the importance of the research, the huge amounts and also wanting to know what the underlying reason is, is sufficient reason for me not to want to wriggle it off. But the Chamber will, of course, get the results of the investigation. I have answered Mr Sjoerdsma's question in response to Mrs Karabulut's motion. Mrs Van Weerdenburg did not have any supplementary questions for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u334	Thank you. Mr. Van Ojik, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u335	It's been three months. We now have to have a false debate on a number of points, because the Minister cannot answer for matters that were previously public and are now state secret. In a few places in those 1,800 pages that really aren't so much............................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't need an investigation for that. I dare say that here. It wouldn't take you three months from now to figure out why on those few pages something wasn't blacked out that should've been blacked out? Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u336	If we consider this important, and I think this is important, then we want to know not only physically why this has not happened in a number of cases, but also whether something has gone wrong in the procedure. Was it an automated part of the procedure "Where there are also search programs for "s' or was it a manual part of the procedure? Was there a setup? These are all very important questions. That answer is coming, but I really don't think it's justified to ruffle that off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u337	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-30.u338	A motion of censure has been tabled. It is customary to vote on that. It is also customary that we suspend for about ten minutes before we vote.
