ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the own-initiative proposal 34534, Proposal for a law of Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yesilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Geleijne providing a framework for the development of policies aimed at irreversible and gradual reduction of Dutch greenhouse gas emissions in order to limit global warming and climate change, or the Climate Law. I call the initiators, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mrs Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Yesilgöz-Zegerius. I have not yet seen Mrs Mulder, Mr Geleijne and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we're discussing the most bizarre law I've seen passing through here in the last eight years, the Climate Act. A law that needs to be rushed through before the new First Chamber. A law of the greenest cabinet ever, as the VVD'er Rutte said. A law that the VVD'er Wiebes diligently wrote along with. A law in which VVD'er Nijpels, our own climate pope, licks his fingers. This terrible climate law is therefore a VVD law for the full hundred percent. And with that the VVD has shown her true face, her GroenLinks face. The VVD is nothing but GroenLinks in a so-called liberal jacket. Mr. Chairman. This week's elections are for the European Parliament and everyone now knows: a vote on the VVD is a vote on GroenLinks. A vote on the VVD is a vote in favour of climate madness, for priceless, bullshit, unfeasible climate action. The Climate Act is a law that is presented as a kind of framework that needs to be further developed. An initiative law, but one that is therefore wholeheartedly supported by the most left-wing cabinet ever. However, we know one thing for sure. Adoption of this law is going to have huge consequences, especially in the financial sense, and that while households' disposable income in the Netherlands has been lagging behind the other countries in Europe for many years due to mispolicy by the successive Rutte Cabinets. A policy that is also characterised by constant lies. We get €1,000 added, taxes don't go up, mortgage interest remains untouched, "first the acid, then the sweet," the energy bill only rises by a few tens. Lies, lies, lies. The credibility of the VVD is increasing by the day. Who's gonna buy it? It was claimed in December that we would all make progress this year. The energy bill would only rise marginally. Last week, we were able to read it all in the paper. In recent months, prices have been rising more sharply due to the cabinet's efforts. The increased VAT, from 6% to 9%. The energy tax has also been increased further, which means that the average energy bill this year is not a few tens, but no less than €334 higher. These government measures are all reflected in inflation. In the meantime, prices are rising even faster than wages. But, yes, what can you expect from a cabinet that uses low-cost companies that base their projections on secret and inscrutable models for energy saving calculations? We're starting to look like a Third World country. Maybe Venezuela is the great example for the cabinet. There you can see how many years of left-wing policy destroys a rich country. In this context, it seems that we should place the support of this Cabinet before the Climate Act. Among those in favour, there is apparently no one who wants to think about the consequences. In the preparation process here in the First Chamber, some parties have not even found it necessary to go into these consequences a little more deeply. Don't ask questions, don't say anything about what's being done to citizens, quickly deal with the Climate Act, and then we don't talk about anything anymore. Parties that make all this happen are not worth a snipe, the VVD in front. Mr. Chairman. The core task of the First Chamber is to check the quality of legislation for legality, feasibility and enforcement. This sometimes led in the past to laws being meticulously deepened and often no element of a law was underexposed. However, when we talk about the climate, all of a sudden the madness breaks loose. It's almost "hysterical" where rational thinking is completely released. It has all the appearance of a new religion that also strongly divides the Dutch people and turns them against each other. You're either in favour or against; there doesn't seem to be a middle ground. And this review of legality, feasibility and enforcement seems to suddenly become a wash-up. While the Council of State writes in its annual report on 2018: "Legislator, values good law and the legislative process." That's a good advice from the Council of State. I am curious to see how this opinion is taken to heart today. I come to the content of the law. It's particularly skinny. The consequences, as I said, are all the greater. We are committed to a 49% CO reduction in 2030 and 95% in 2050 compared to 1990. These goals can only be achieved if draconian, far-reaching measures are taken. We need to get rid of the gas, and we need to get rid of the heat pump and the solar panels. We need to eat less meat, drink less milk, shower less. We have to drive electric in priceless Tesla's and we have to fly less. Completely out of control madness! All this supposedly to save the climate. People who just want to live their lives are talking about climate guilt in everything. With this Climate Act, the VVD has therefore definitively distanced itself from liberalism. All that to enjoy GroenLinks and to stay in power. In the new First Chamber the VVD will need the support of GroenLinks. GroenLinks can be happy with his green VVD friends. Mr. Chairman. This Climate Act also shows that this is not actually the Rutte III Cabinet but the Klever I Cabinet. Congratulations, Mr. Klaver. There is no need and no financial justification. In fact, the initiators deliberately omitted this, as can be seen in the package leaflet. But in any case, the adoption of this law will cost us hundreds of billions. The Economic Institute for Construction has calculated that making all houses energy neutral alone will cost 235 billion euros. The EIB estimates that such a further amount will be needed for all other buildings. So we are already at EUR 470 billion. Then there is the fleet, air traffic, industry and, not to mention, agriculture, because these cows also seem to be terrible in this story. The total amount is therefore more likely to exceed 1,000 billion. This amounts to €60,000 for every Dutchman, young and old, poor and rich. That is an average of €130,000 per household. And what are the benefits? Nothing at all. The climate impact of all these efforts is unmeasurably small and will be more than completely offset by the virtually unlimited construction of coal plants and other industrial activities in India, China and developing countries. Even brown coal extraction a few kilometres across the border in Limburg, in Germany, the largest producer of lignite in the world, continues to be at least until 2045. Even Mr Pieter Boot of the Planning Bureau for the Environment, who, in fact, passed on the climate agreement, said earlier: "For climate change, of course, it doesn't matter whether the Netherlands does this on its own or not. Then it is important: what happens in the world?" We're being fooled by the VVD's liars. Climate deception that's it. Even Patrick Moore, co-founding Greenpeace, calls the scaremongering about climate change the greatest scam in history, the biggest scam in history. Indeed, that must appeal particularly to the impostors of the VVD. It's also, if we're going to talk about the consequences, a dangerous law. Apart from the fact that we are setting up groups of people against each other, it also has other consequences that we are putting a future generation and future governments with. If some crazy environmental club thinks that CO reduction isn't going fast enough, we're gonna give them a stick to hit with this law. They go to the judge who, according to the Urgenda case, is all too happy to sit on the chair of politics to live out his left-wing hobbies. This will oblige the Netherlands, for example, to spend hundreds of billions more to try to achieve a completely unattainable goal. During the examination of the appeal in the Urgenda case, the Land Attorney noted that the 8% CO reduction imposed by the court in 2020 would result in only 45 million degrees less average global warming up to 2100. Therefore, the State itself indicated that the 8% additional CO reduction imposed by the judge for 2020 would result in only 45 millionth degree less warming. This whole law is piloted by the Second and First Chambers in a good six months. There has not even been a technical briefing or hearing in the Upper Chamber. They believed that. Some parties might even have wanted to take the law off as a hammer piece, because yes, the climate. Compare that with the discussion about the Joint Strike Fighter. It lasted 16 years, while only 6 billion were involved. So now six months for an amount of 1,000 billion. It is a pity that every bit of reality is thrown overboard and suddenly money doesn't matter anymore. It will dramatically throw the Netherlands and its inhabitants back on the welfare scale. Poverty will increase, but at least we will meet the demands of the IPCC that countries should subordinate their economic interests to climate policy. Already hundreds of thousands of people can no longer pay for their health care. Households' energy bill, which already consists of half taxes, is already rising by an average of €334 per family this year. Soon many more inhabitants of the Netherlands will no longer be able to warm their homes and every winter day will be a national sweater day. Everyone at the heat pump says this cabinet; a heat pump that delivers water at such a low temperature that you need underfloor heating to heat your home and an extra boiler to shower. If you have no money to pay for the heat pump and the associated underfloor heating and if you cannot increase the mortgage, the local authorities have already come up with a solution for you. Investors or municipalities like to take over the bare property of the land under your house. Forever you'll pay debt! The PVV Group considers this form of extortion totally scandalous. I would like to know from the cabinet whether it considers this development to be desirable to make existing houses so-called climate neutral. Links The Netherlands still suggests that you will get there with an extra CO levy for the industry. Beautiful, but with the extreme targets set by the Climate Act, this charge will have to be so much higher than in the neighbouring countries that important industries will disappear from the Netherlands. And if they do not disappear, these costs will in any case be passed on to the citizen with even greater poverty. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the implementation of CO reduction, wind, sun and biomass will be relied on to a large extent as alternatives. Because, yes, the only serious possibility to emit economically sound CO, namely nuclear energy, is not even on the agenda because the initiators cannot agree on this. So wind, sun and biomass. And precisely with the planning and placing of windmill and solar parks, we also place groups of people opposite each other. On the one hand, you have the owners and the profiteers of the windmill and solar parks, the subsidy pushers. On the other hand, you have the disadvantaged, the ordinary people who are allowed to pay for higher taxes and charges, the people who see their views ruined by windmills and solar parks, the people who see the value of their homes fall and when they want to sell it, they notice that it is virtually unsellable. And then the most absurd. With this law, we are going to establish that energy generated by biomass is CO-neutral. Really, Mr. President, it's in the initiative bill. If we choose this form of energy generation, that means that the Netherlands and the rest of the world will deforest at an even faster pace. On deforestation in Brazil, murder and fire are rightly shouted, but research by the University of Wageningen has shown that the Dutch forest area decreased by 5,400 hectares between 2013 and 2017. For the remaining forest, there is a complete lack of any tree species specific control on wood growth. The pace with which the Netherlands is deforested is increasing. Like crazy, whole forests are being cut down to feed biomass plants. In the Amercentrale in Geertruidenberg alone 1,500 adult trees disappear per day. This pace still needs to be increased, because if they are going to be able to devoid of coal in a few years' time, they will have to close down. At the moment there are plans for the cap of 231 hectares of beautiful old trees opposite plans for 304 hectares of new forest, consisting of poor little blades. The hypocritical climate hysterics have invented a term for this: they do this under the heading "enhancing biodiversity." Meanwhile, the Netherlands deforests relatively faster than the Amazon. Mr. Chairman. We see that the confrontation between supporters and opponents of wind and solar parks is becoming more and more hardening. This cabinet is turning people against each other. My group finds it shocking that all players are looking away from this because the energy transition is sacred. It must be implemented at all costs. It is becoming increasingly clear that tolerance also has a limit in the Netherlands. Six years ago, Minister Kamp of Economic Affairs told this Chamber that by 2020, 16% of energy consumption should be renewable. My group asked at that time to indicate how this objective could be achieved globally without extreme financial consequences. In 2013, 4.8% of energy consumption was renewable. At the moment, after billions of subsidies have actually been pumped away, 5.5% of total energy consumption is renewable. That's 0.7% higher. We need to know that SDE+ has been in force since 2011 and that it is currently burning some 6 billion, to be coughed up by taxpayers, especially families. I would like to hear from the Minister how achieving the climate objectives set out in this law, this air bicycle industry, is possible without burdening Dutch families even more than is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u4	I'd like to know from the PVV spokesperson if he considers the deforestation human work. I suppose so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u5	Sorry, or that...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u6	The deforestation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u7	Yeah, so am I...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u8	Or that's human work. And then I want to ask him the same question about the decline in biodiversity. Does he think that's human work, too? Then we'll find a way out of the climate problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u9	I have the doubtful pleasure of living in the middle of a Natura 2000 site. I see deforestation every day. Machines throwing 2 hectares of mature trees into the plain in one day to make space there in the context of broadening biodiversity. But then I ask that truck driver who takes those trees away: where are you actually going, what happens to those trees? What do you think he's saying? "They are made into sawdust, and pellets are made of it." That is my answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u10	Okay, the deforestation is human work. Is the decline in biodiversity, the prediction that 1 million species will soon disappear, not human work? The next question is then whether the climate disruption is not human work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u11	I think that question about biodiversity is really outside this framework, quite simply. But I'd like to say something. Of course, the decline in biodiversity will be partly caused by the influence of man, certainly. But deforestation is not a solution to broadening biodiversity. Mr President, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u12	Finally, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u13	There was another question, namely whether the climate disruption would not be human work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u14	Is climate change human work? It is extremely doubtful to answer that with a "yes" or "no." I didn't go into that in my story, either, because I want to leave it in the middle of whether the current CO increase from 280 ppm to 380 ppm in 200 years is actually human work. In the meantime, a lot of volcanoes have erupted, I can tell you. But the idea that you can bring down the CO-number in the air like the Netherlands with 1,000 billion in investments is really too bizarre for words. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the climate objective mentioned in this law is possible without burdening Dutch families even more heavily than is currently the case. With this question, the PVV is not alone. The Council of State also indicates that there is no understanding of the costs of climate objectives. The only thing that is clear is that it takes an unlikely amount of money and that it is not used cost-effectively. The blunders with secret calculation models to calculate the alleged benefits of electric cars and the politics in the backrooms, where the so-called climate tables were located, are still not publicly available, despite a PVV motion adopted in this Chamber, and from which experts in the field of nuclear power or thorium power stations have been expressly prevented, all show that this government has never, or rather has never, completely lost control. Mr President, I will conclude. Don't believe the VVD's climate drones. Don't believe the impostors of the VVD. The consequences of the Climate Act are incalculable. There is only one way to ensure that the energy bill doesn't go up, that you can just keep driving your petrol car, that you can keep eating meat, that you don't have to buy a very expensive heat pump and that you can shower as long as you want, and that's by putting an end to all the green madness, all the climate madness. This terrible climate law must pass through the shredder as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u16	I had the impression that Mr Van Strien is somewhat critical of this law. So am I. That's a profit warning. But I had a question. I understood that Mr Van Strien used the word 'extortion'. My question is whether I have heard that correctly and whether Mr Van Strien does indeed believe that extortion is being done by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u17	Yeah, I used that word, and that's what I find striking in this respect. If you look at proposals in some of the provinces that I know about, you see people being forced to take measures that they can't afford and that then they say, "Well, then you sell the land under your house." I think that's a form of extortion. I can't think of another word for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u18	Extortion is part of the Code of Criminal Law, as Mr Van Strien undoubtedly knows: Article 317. My question is whether he is going to press charges if this law is passed and against whom. Against the government or against those who have filed the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u19	I think that could have a very good chance at local level. If you're forced to sell the land under your house because you're obliged to take bizarre measures, I think there's a very good chance for the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr Schalk, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u21	Yes, in conclusion, Madam President. I can imagine people finding certain measures bizarre and bizarre, but if we call that extortion here in the Chamber, we must be aware that this could have consequences for a declaration or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u22	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u23	I hear Mr Van Strien say that the climate around the climate debate is hardening and that parties are being set up against each other. I would ask Mr Van Strien to reflect on his own role in this. I hear him talking about "cheaters" and "liegers" here on a regular basis. So I would like to hear a reflection from you on your own role in opposing people in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u24	I didn't think we had a role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u25	Well, that's how we talk here. We may not agree with each other on all points, but we are going to have a great deal of debate about this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u26	Well, can we get it through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u27	Yes, of course, you can do that through the chairman. That's how it works. I almost forgot. This is now accompanied by strong words, and I find it a little too easy when you say that we have no part in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u28	I have nothing else to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A slightly different tone. Mr. Chairman. Climate change is of all times. The earth has periods of warming and cooling that sometimes bring with it profound changes for countries, nature and residents. And yet it's different now. Since the industrial revolution, the world has already warmed up more than 1°, in the Netherlands 1.7°, and the rate of global warming is unprecedented. That's new. Scientists have demonstrated the link between CO emissions and global warming. Since the industrial revolution, the concentration of CO has increased by 50%. This gives rise to problems worldwide where the intensity of both heat, cold, drought and sea level increases are particularly striking. To reduce the impact of warming, we focus on reducing CO emissions. In the Netherlands 50% of CO emissions are caused by industrial production and energy generation, and 20% by traffic and transport. Agriculture, livestock farming and heating are responsible for the rest. We will therefore have to be active in several areas in order to reduce the damage and comply with the climate objectives of the UN Convention of Paris that we signed in 2015. Last year, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report appeared that preached the world where we are today. A few weeks ago, the UN report on biodiversity decline appeared. What should we do now to limit global warming to 1.5°? That is the international task. Mind you, even in the case of 1.5° warming, the consequences, especially for the less developed countries, are profound, but the damage can still be dealt with worldwide. Above that, the situation is becoming problematic in many places on the earth with an ever-increasing world population. The good news from the IPPC report is that 1.5° is still feasible. The bad news is that action must now be taken very hard in almost all the countries that signed Paris in order to achieve the objectives. At the moment, 2200 gigatons of CO have been emitted worldwide. In order to limit warming to 1,5 °, no more than 570 gigaton should be emitted in the future. Without measures, we will arrive in 2035. In 2030, the Paris targets are based on a 45% reduction in CO emissions compared to 2010 levels. Afterwards, 5% reduction will be requested every year until the total target is reached in 2050. Mitigating emissions has many advantages that are not mentioned very much. It reduces the costs associated with climate change. Already, the United Nations believes that climate adaptation policy will involve thousands of billions of dollars worldwide. In order to limit this, the cost of benefits is also borne here. I am not just talking about the economic consequences of climate change; the humanitarian consequences and impacts on biodiversity are far more profound. Mr. Chairman. D66, on the basis of our social liberal principles, wants to strive for a harmonious society that takes future generations into account. The earth is not ours and is not an article of use. The discussions on climate and the environment should not argue about conservation but about environmental degradation. That reversal of thinking: that is the real challenge we face! Our country is a delta country; 60% of our country is extremely susceptible to flooding. Foreigners are surprised when they enter our country that Schiphol is 4 meters below sea level. It's the only big airport in the world that's so low. Our cities, our farmland, our polders and industrial areas, they are largely below sea level. Centuries we are in the process of protecting ourselves from the washing water. Climate change is an additional challenge for our country. But over the centuries, the Dutch have also managed to create opportunities for threats. Our water management is an export product and in the future the world can still benefit a lot. Even when it comes to the energy transition, we have a history. From wood to peat, from peat to coal, from coal to gas and now from gas to sustainable. That's how it's gonna be. In the past, we have been able to do so, and we have also been able to offer opportunities. That didn't go without a fight in the old days, by the way. The transition to gas resulted in a lot of protests; you can hardly imagine it anymore. The discussions then were about: "the benefits go to the State and the costs then?" For example, municipalities had to organise cooking courses, because it was a switch-over after all. You can no longer imagine that, but any change that is far-reaching for privacy also calls for resistance. And it certainly is now. Citizens do see the need for what needs to be done and they also want to participate in the energy transition. Real climate deniers are more political than bourgeoisie. But even if you believe on political grounds that it is not going to happen, you should take action on the basis of the principle of prudence alone. Citizens want to participate in this transition, but they also want to be clear about what is going to change in their situation, what they can do themselves. We are all citizens too, and we also want to understand the costs and the cost distribution, and a timetable. The necessary energy transition can deliver innovations and therefore a lot of work. Other countries, such as Denmark, have long been ahead of us in this respect. History should serve as inspiration, but history never repeats itself. Unlike previous energy transitions, we cannot do it alone now. The Netherlands cannot stop global warming. We are also here, in a globalising world or economy, depending on others. And every country must work hard to achieve the goals of Paris. For some, this is a reason for doing nothing at all and thus heading worldwide towards a catastrophe. For us, D66, the reason is to honour agreements made, to pursue climate policy and to really tackle the energy transition. For let us be honest, so far we have mainly talked about climate policy and the energy transition. Very little has happened yet. We talk, we discuss, we discuss, but where is the policy being implemented? It is now almost five years after Paris and the Netherlands is certainly not a forerunner when it comes to renewable energy. At the moment, 21 May 2019, according to the website www.energie-opwekken.nl, which was developed for the Economic and Social Council and where you can see at any time of the day how much renewable energy we generate, 5.3% renewable energy on: sun, wind, biogases, nuclear energy, including everything. That's not exactly a figure to be proud of right now. On paper, we often seem to be predecessors, but in reality we are far behind other European countries. That should be our honor too much. My first question is a question to the cabinet. What proposals can we expect from you in this calendar year to achieve the objectives set out in this law? We've waited long enough and talked long enough. After all, the beauty of the Paris agreements is that not everything needs to be done at the same time. We have time, we have 30 years, but we have to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u31	There is at least one point on which Mr Pijlman and I agree. That is the percentage he has just mentioned of what is being generated by so-called renewable energy at the moment. He mentioned 5.3, I mentioned 5.5. I was even a little higher, but I'm sure that's within the margin of error. But of course there are other countries, such as Sweden, that have a piece of cake. They just put a wheel under a waterfall and Kees is done. Electricity is virtually free: white coal, as it is called. We can never handle that, but we can handle nuclear power. Why doesn't D66 come up with that idea? If you talk about saving on CO emissions, there is really only one real alternative to electricity generation, and that is nuclear energy. Why don't you come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u32	I am not ready for the measures at all, but let me say first of all that you will not come up with them either. According to you, the whole discussion is nonsense, let alone that you want to invest billions and another billions in nuclear energy, while you also know that if you do that right now, look at the examples in England, where now a very large power station is being built, then it will take between ten and fifteen years for us to be operational. So then you're a very big part of the time you've lost. There is much easier to achieve energy savings than to invest billions in projects. I cannot imagine that you would be in favour of that after your speech just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u33	I agree with Mr Pijlman that the start-up of additional nuclear energy takes time, but those twenty years, I understand, are really crucial, because if we have not taken the necessary billions of devouring measures before these twenty years, then the world will perish. That can't be true, can it, seeing how our neighbouring countries do it? If you see how in Germany lignite accounts for most of the electricity generation. The largest brown coal producer in the world, which continues until 2045. Then you can't decide 20 years for nuclear power, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u34	By the way, in the middle of Germany's desire to get rid of lignite, Germany has made a lot of investments so far, but it has also decided that nuclear energy is not the solution. The Netherlands went that way too. This debate on nuclear energy will certainly begin, but it is not a solution in the medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u35	I note that the most obvious solution to actually reduce CO for D66 is not an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u36	That is an observation, but you often draw conclusions which I find inimitable. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Bank calculated that the cost of the energy transition is affordable and feasible, provided we take the time. The climate objectives call for precise, transparent and effective policies, which we have missed so far. We need action now, in addition to honest information about how, why and the cost of the energy transition. And it was quite a blunder on the part of the cabinet last autumn to claim that the energy bill would increase only slightly. Because critics of the cabinet got right. They pointed out that the energy transition is cost-effective and that companies are protected from a CO levy. The latter wants to remedy the cabinet now. When can we see these proposals? And the first will be corrected next year, says the cabinet. In what way, we ask. Mr President, a number of countries preceded us on the climate law. The United Kingdom has been working with such a law since 2008, Mexico followed in 2012, Finland, France and Denmark in 2015. Experience so far has been positive. The UK law seems to have been a model for this initiative proposal. D66 wants to congratulate the initiators, especially Jesse Klaver and Diederik Samsom, on their initiative. The fact that they have been able to broaden their proposal in such a way that there can be talk of a Chamber-wide initiative is certainly worth complimenting. The proposal before us, unlike the United Kingdom law, is not based on an important element: the independent Committee on Climate Change. That committee establishes the Carbon budget and the cabinet can only deviate from that argument very much. In the Netherlands, the role remains with the cabinet, which will be advised by a climate committee. And the idea of a climate authority has also let go of the initiators. We ask them to give their arguments again. The proposed bill sets out the targets for climate policy and the mechanisms for achieving them. This should provide certainty, including for the longer term, which can also make it easier for investors to invest in innovations from this framework. The law is therefore for us a framework law which sets out the main objectives, but also needs to be deepened and developed. The system looks clear. Objectives, translated into a climate plan, Article 4, adopted for five years, translated into a climate budget, Article 7, and an annual report, Article 12, which shows what the results are. This annual report is then presented to the two Chambers of the States-General each year and is again part of the public debate. The Planning Bureau for the Environment follows the process and produces a scientific report every five years describing the expected development of climate and greenhouse emissions in the Netherlands for a period of at least 15 years, as described in Article 11. This in turn leads to a new plan for five years. The PBL is therefore a very important player in the evaluation and accountability of this law. If the PBL is sufficiently equipped for this new task, we ask the Minister. Article 6 (1) states that the Prime Minister shall adopt the climate plan in accordance with the views of the Council of Ministers and after hearing both Chambers of the States-General. Can the initiators clarify again what is meant by "hearing both Chambers of the States General"? Can the States-General make changes to the plan? How do the initiators view this? You set a new target for five years. Of course, that also follows legislation and regulations. But isn't it obvious that the States-General itself also adopts the climate plan? I would like a response from the initiators to this. Why did you choose this line? But also from the cabinet. Mr President, the legislative proposal leaves aside the means by which the objectives are to be achieved. The instruments, such as the CO levy, could also have been mentioned. The initiators leave this to the cabinet and thus avoid disputes. Is that not to jeopardise the broad coalition that has tabled this law, would we like to know, or are there really substantive arguments? Mr. Chairman. The law is ambitious in its objectives. The Paris intermediate targets for 2030 are set in Article 3 above the targets we have previously signed. The Council of State is critical of this. After all, we are considerably behind the objectives of the energy agreement. How realistic is it then to further increase the objectives on paper? Can the initiators once again argue why they choose to do so? Of course, we appreciate the ambition, but realising the ambitions must be paramount. We would also like a response from the Minister on this point. How does he see the reality of Article 3? Ambition is beautiful, but achieving realistic goals is our preferred goal. This also motivates society much more than always to see delays. When we look at the state of the energy agreement of 2013, we see that we are once again significantly behind the targets. Sometimes we seem to be offering on paper against each other when it comes to objectives and ambitions, but the practice is very stubborn. Can the Minister outline, on the basis of an overview as concrete as possible, what is now needed to achieve these targets by 2030? Once again: almost five years after Paris, much has changed in the Netherlands, especially on paper when it comes to the energy transition. This law further encourages the cabinet to leave the discussions behind in the short term and to come up with feasible plans and to add a clear division of labour and cost allocation. Mr. Chairman. The objectives indicate the direction, but the explanatory memorandum to Article 4 also makes it clear that these objectives are not legally enforceable within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act. Why, so we ask the initiators, has this been chosen? This is particularly true in conjunction with the higher objectives which are not legally enforceable. Of course, in the end, politics will always judge when the objectives are not met, but increased objectives that are legally unenforceable make the law seem to be a bit more non-binding. This will not be the intention both for the initiators and for the D66 Group. Mr. Chairman. We look forward with great interest to the answers of the initiators and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. President Barack Obama set the tone in his speech at the 2014 United Nations Climate Change Summit in which he told the world: "If there is one issue that will be dramatic more than any other in this century, then it is the acute and growing threat of climate change." My group recognizes itself in this visionary image. Climate change through human intervention is a fact. The rapid generation of our fossil fuels, of oil, gas and coal, leads to sneaking and profound consequences. In any case, we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our ecological footprint should be less, the resilience of the earth is not endless. Half of greenhouse gas emissions have ended up in the atmosphere over the past three decades. And the next three decades will determine whether we can reverse the clock. The Christian Union Group is therefore pleased that nearly 200 countries have signed the Paris Agreement and are committed to launching national climate plans to limit the rise in temperature to 2°C and preferably below 1.5°C. We are at least so pleased that no less than eight political parties in the Lower House have found each other to legally guarantee these international climate objectives and to anchor the framework for climate plans in Dutch legislation. My group welcomes the initiators and congratulates them on this important legislative proposal. This consensus reflects the sense of urgency which my group is aware of. We've got to get out of here. The question is, of course, whether this consensus at the level of objectives is in line with the equally necessary and much-needed consensus at the level of action. Then the image is less noble and vocal. We still have no developed climate agreement. The temperature of the earth is rising, but so is the public and political debate about it. We are seeing a process of increasing hardening and disdain, of political clashes and sometimes even misconception. It seems as if the climate debate is drawing from a small cultural war, from a new class struggle, with a heaviness that makes it difficult to find compromises. Earlier this morning we saw an example of this. One can, of course, argue that this is the nature of the political battle scene and that this is just part of it. But sometimes it's not uplifting. This process of growing political polarization around the climate theme is curious about how the initiators themselves experience this battle scene of controversy and conflict. Is it a necessary evil or does it block effective climate policy? Where is connection possible? I like to hear it. But maybe, Mr. President, we should dig a little deeper. Climate change also has to do with our dominant lifestyle and the consumerism that prevails in it, with the large-scale way in which we have organised our economy and the way in which it affects our natural resources, with the way in which we operate agriculture and livestock farming, with the way in which we move and travel, with the way in which we produce and consume. Sooner or later, the climate debate will touch on what our fundamental economic, social and cultural values are. The question is, therefore, whether we can conduct the climate debate in a purely technocratic instrumentalistic way or whether we should not escape a more fundamental reflection on the relationship between climate policy and economic order, climate policy, good life and good society. Does this uncomfortable question burden the climate debate or is the question inevitable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr Ester says that we also need to change our lifestyle, at least that is something I understand. Our cows also play a role in this whole climate debate, because they are not really allowed to breathe out CO. Is Mr Ester aware that the cattle that are kept on much larger plains in South America, for example, emit much more CO than our cows? Our cows are given highly dosed and technologically managed food, so they emit much less CO than in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u40	I think Mr Van Strien's logic and reasoning is beautiful, but a little inimitable. I'm talking about our lifestyle. But we have now suddenly arrived in South America, with the cattle there. It happens to me that there are still some thought steps in there that don't really affect me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u41	Let me explain. In any case, our agriculture is on the same page when it comes to this climate law. Our agriculture, and in particular our livestock farming, is really on the road through this climate law. You're talking about lifestyle. I believe that agriculture is an essential part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr Van Strien is right. Only he did not listen very carefully, because I gave just the example of livestock farming and agriculture as areas where the necessary changes need to be made. Luckily, this cabinet is working on that as well. But it was just a nice part of my speech so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Van Strien, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u44	Finally, Mr President. I say that our farmers, our farmers, lead the way in reducing CO emissions. My message is: don't touch it; just make sure those people can do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u45	We shouldn't let that go. Our agriculture is very innovative. I think Mr Van Strien also points that out. On the contrary, our agriculture is very innovative in terms of sustainability and emphasising sustainability. That seems to me to be a logical extension of that. Mr. Chairman. Now to the bill itself. The Christian Union Group supports the idea of anchoring global climate objectives in national legislation. It guarantees our ambitions and shows that we take the climate problem seriously. By its nature, the climate issue is a complex and layered problem whose negative consequences will only become apparent in the longer term and the efforts of individual actors to change their behaviour in their perceptions will be limited. Often this is reason not to do anything, to refrain from intervention, which makes the problem worse. These action-theoretic considerations, to say the least, lead to perseverance in misbehaviour, which ultimately makes everyone worse off. This is at the heart of the tragedy of the commons, as the explanatory memorandum also clearly explains. The interesting thing about this bill is that it breaks through this collective psychology by political parties seeking cooperation. The disastrous calculus that is characteristic of the emergence of the climate tragedy is precisely the result of cooperation. What is at least as interesting is that the legislative proposal sets out concrete, operational long-term targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and 2050, and wants to make the battle for CO-neutral electricity production for this last year. It is commonplace, even in this Chamber, to complain about the lack of long-term policy in politics and government, but this bill breaks through this political lethargy, breaks the dominance of short-term thinking. And that's profit. Pure profit. My group has asked a large number of questions in the written preparation. Thank you to the initiators for their answer. My group welcomes the proposed policy cycle, climate and energy exploration, climate plan, climate budget and progress reports. We can sense the formulation of a hard target for 2050 and a target for 2030: it creates flexibility in the shorter term while maintaining long-term security. My group is pleased that the Council of State has been given a structural and authoritative role in the climate policy cycle. We do, however, need further elaboration by the initiators and minister of the role of our Parliament in this policy cycle. Can you reflect on that again? Mr. Chairman. Combating climate change costs money. A lot of money, actually. We are talking about planning agency estimates of national costs between 1.6 billion and 1.9 billion per year over the next 20 years, so a lot of money. Still, that soberly isn't so bad. These amounts are less than 2% of public expenditure on health care or social security and less than one third of our annual national interest payments. All in all, this can be done macroeconomically. The earth, the creation, must be worth something to us too. I am not playing down anything, but I think that we should correctly reflect the financial proportions of the climate approach. Climate accounting is not only about expenditure but also about revenue: lower temperature, less pollution, more renewable energy sources and more energy saving. It also leads to more innovation and more employment. Besides, if we stay on our hands now, we'll pass the bill on to future generations. Would it not be good for the quality of the social debate, I would ask the initiators and the minister, through the chairman, if we were to highlight the spending and revenue story of climate change much more evenly and communicate more clearly? Doesn't that take the debate out of the atmosphere of total fascination? I know that the legislative proposal as a framework law deliberately does not contain a financial paragraph, but could the reasoning as I now unfold it not grow a mindset that looks a little more relaxed and optimistic towards the climates we stand for? The account of climate policy, Mr President, may be macroeconomic, but that does not mean that there are no microeconomic concerns. Everyone must play their part: government, consumers and businesses. But we have to make sure that the bill is shared fairly. Here too, there is the adage that the strongest shoulders must bear the heaviest loads. Or more appropriate: that the biggest drivers of greenhouse gas emissions, too, are hit hardest. The credibility of climate policy requires this principle to be guiding. This also affects the core of the discussion on CO taxation, it also affects the fuss about the Tesla grant, it also affects the debate on the flight tax. I would like to hear the ideas of the initiators and the Minister on the application of this principle of divided justice in climate policy. Don't we need a new ethics of climate policy here? The cabinet announced further measures soon after the CPB had passed on the income effects of the draft climate agreement. We're expecting that next month. Can the Minister state what the cabinet's commitment is and what divisional ethics is used by the cabinet? This Climate Act, so much is clear, stands or falls with the taking of the Dutch population and our companies in the fight against climate change. The strong polarization may also suggest a bit of a false start. This implies that we need to have the story in order and share the results achieved. The story and the results must be convincing. It also makes a difference to the citizens when it comes to the relationship between climate agreement, climate law, climate plan, energy transition and energy agreement. That needs to be explained and explained. This complex matter requires, in short, a solid and continuous communication path. My group would like to hear what the thoughts and concrete plans are. The signatories to the Paris Agreement undertake to draw up and implement national climate plans. That means that a few 200 countries are going to work, each in their own way. My group believes it is very important that countries learn from each other. How do you successfully shape policy instruments? How do you promote and price your desired behavior? What promising energy saving technologies are ahead of us? What promising energy innovations are there? How do you phase in the introduction of climate action? Those are fundamental questions. How can we arrange for countries to learn optimally from each other if national policy choices between climate action are to be made? Can we work together intelligently and share the content of our knowledge? I wonder whether the initiators, and certainly the Minister, have any ideas on this. This Climate Act puts a concrete mark on the horizon and anchors procedural standards to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in legislation. In the years between now and 2050 it must all be done: stepwise and irreversible. A reduction of greenhouse gases to a level 95% lower in 2050 than in 1990 and a target reduction of 49% by 2030. The Climate Act is thus preparing for one of the most ambitious and far-reaching post-war policy interventions. We must not forget to clearly monitor and evaluate the success and failure factors of this unique policy path and the societal innovation it needs. Can the Minister promise the Christian Union Group such a process review? Mr President, I shall conclude. The Christian Union Group fully supports this climate law. In our words it is about keeping God's creation cool, about the earth we have on loan. We feel responsible for this, also with a view to future generations. Back to President Obama where I started my contribution. He says so, and I quote again: "One day our children will look us in the eye and our children's children will look us in the eye and ask if we have put everything on everything when we had the chance to tackle climate change and leave them a cleaner, safer and more stable world." That, Mr President, is the ultimate question. Nothing more, nothing less. I look forward to the answers of the initiators and the Minister to my group's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Is it realistic to assume that the Netherlands will be off the gas in 2030? The answer seems to me to be no. Can you expect Amsterdam to stop driving cars in 2030, other than expensive electric bolides? Real Amsterdammers would answer this question: what a big deal it is! Or does anyone seriously think that the climate can change by adopting a climate law in the Netherlands? A sober Dutchman will say: forget it! Someone like Paul Scheffer warns us: doom thinking is at the expense of democracy. That is exactly what we see happening at the climate tables, which we are not talking about today, but where climate targets were devised without the democratically elected assembly sitting at those tables. The Dutch people see that as well. This turned out to be the case in the last elections, which are referred to as climate elections. Madam President. I do not make these comments in order to trivialise the problem. Of course we're worried about the climate on Earth. Mr Pijlman just said it very precisely: the earth is not ours. Indeed, the earth is the Lord's, as it says in Psalm 24. Or the earth belongs to Allah, the Creator of the heavens and the earth. For the SGP, the biblical mission is to be steward of God's good creation, to be carried out in all its facets. But stewardship, in my opinion, has two sides: good care and good housekeeping. In other words, the mission to build and preserve is fully valid, but also the care or what we invent is feasible. From that tension field, the SGP wants to look at the law before it. We do so, of course, on the basis of the three major principles of our work in this Chamber: legality, feasibility and enforcement. The Climate Law of Mr Klaver cum suis, which congratulates the proposers, offers the possibility of doing so through three key words on which the SGP input concentrates, namely: reliable, affordable and feasible. "Reliable" I consider equivalent to legality, "affordable" is about feasibility and "feasible" is part of enforcement. "Reliable" or "legal" is therefore the first recital. What exactly does this law want? The initiators made an important statement in the written reply, and I quote: "The initiators have clearly stated in the explanatory statement what the scope and functioning of the objectives in the legislative proposal are. These objectives are intended as political objectives for the policy of the cabinet. It is ultimately up to the parliament to keep the cabinet to these goals." This quote reveals precisely the problem that this initiative law causes, because the initiators have forced the political goals of the cabinet, supplemented by their own goals, into a law. But that's not what a law is for. I quote from the praiseless Van der Pot, page 652: "The law is the central instrument that regulates the behaviour of citizens and controls governance." It is understandable, therefore, that laws or rules will apply to all citizens, or to certain sections of the population, such as road users, consumers, banks, financial institutions and so on. But this law gives a purpose mission to the government, to a government which is constantly re-established after successive elections and which is thus also held in varying compositions under this law. The political space for the formation of a cabinet is therefore expressly restricted by this law. The SGP considers that such political objectives, which are highly uncertain in their implementation and dependencies on the international commitment of many other parties, do not just fall within the scope of legislation. Therefore, the following questions, in particular to the government. How does the Minister appreciate this analysis on behalf of the government? Does the Minister share the SGP's view that such political goals belong, for example, in the National Environment Vision, and not explicitly in legislation? Madam President, I am still talking about the reliability and legality of this law. After all, if we put in the law a goal to be achieved and a year to be achieved, what does that mean in terms of law? What if the target is reached? Will the law automatically expire? Or should the government get rid of that law at that time? And what if it doesn't make it? Will there then be an initiative legislative proposal, for example from a coalition party, to postpone the feasibility date? Or can we expect a new phenomenon, namely a debate, not about the Brexit or the Nexit, but about the climate exit? And what do these goals, as included in the Local Government Bill, mean? Is the assumption correct that they cannot be tied to this? A final aspect of reliability is about the citizens. An ever-increasing proportion of the population clearly indicates that far-reaching climate action is not desirable. This became painfully visible in the last election. That is why it is important to take the citizens seriously, to bring them along, to create support for the policies to be pursued. That's not gonna happen with unachievable measures in a law that demands the impossible before 2050. That is all the more true if these unachievable laws prove to be priceless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr Schalk now refers for the second time to the recent elections. They were indeed about the climate and have also produced an extremely positive result for my party. In any case, we interpret this as a clear support for climate action. My question concerns the following. You say that there is a growing group of people who have objections to climate action. I know you as someone who is based on figures and facts and who is able to justify his statements. So I was actually curious on the basis of which research you found that there would be an increase in the number of people who are sceptical or would not support these climate measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you for the question, I say to you through the President. I, too, have noted that your party has made good profits in the last election, so you are undoubtedly right. I think you've gained four or five seats in this room. But there is also another party, which is not yet represented here and which I cannot therefore call for help, which was given 12 or 13 seats in this Chamber in the same elections. On the contrary, it has explicitly speculated on these kinds of issues, the climate targets. The only empirical evidence that I can actually put forward, if you would ask, is that your party has indeed won four seats. Moreover, other parties who are sitting here at the table may have lost the same thing, if not anymore, but that a party that just walked in and at least paid a lot of attention to that has won a lot. I think that we can look back on elections and a campaign that dealt with these issues in particular. That's what I'm basing my analysis on. Madam President. With my final remarks on unaffordability, I also came to the second point, namely affordability, under the term 'feasibility'. It is striking that the applicants have indicated that they are unable to give an indication of the cost of their own initiative proposal. In the written reply, the authors leave it to the cabinet to pass on the draft climate agreement, which, moreover, does not go beyond 2030. That's strange, isn't it? After all, it is customary to provide proper cover for every legislative proposal. Why doesn't that apply to a major operation like this? I am actually asking this question to all the applicants. How do you, as an individual representative of the people, as a Member of Parliament, respond to the question of why you come up with a law whose costs are unclear and the feasibility is still a big question, and where you do not provide a proper start to coverage? Can a parliament throw the population into such an uncertain adventure? And what is the government's view of the fact that there is a risk of a law being passed here in the First Chamber which entails enormous costs, but in which the proposers do not want to show any sign of financial soundness? This simply means that the government will face an impossible task. Is the Minister of EZK prepared to put this question to the Minister of Finance today, or is he prepared to answer it on behalf of the Minister of Finance? Of course, the cabinet speaks with one voice, so that will undoubtedly be fine. Furthermore, we know that some 600 measures have been included in the climate agreement that has not yet been agreed. It is now known that some 130 of these measures are being passed on. This gives an initial picture of the costs. But what about the other 470 recommendations of the climate agreement? Can the Minister comment on this? Recently, during a consultation on the National Reform Programme 2019, I asked him a question about macroeconomic imbalances. The Minister was less concerned about that. But my group is much more concerned, especially about the period after 2030 to 2050, because it will address all the measures that are not so easy to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr. Reuten, you're gone again? Or did you want to interrupt? You don't have to. If you're gonna sit down again, I'm gonna be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u51	I'm interrupting; thank you. The Constitution also mentions a number of issues that the government should take care of, for example, the spread of prosperity, environmental care, etc. They have not been specifically quantified, but there is no cover for them either. Can you compare that with what you have just said about the objectives of the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u52	That's a nice question. The Constitution indicates how we have to behave. There are a lot of issues in this and I am sure the two you have just mentioned will also be mentioned. I don't know the article of the constitution by heart; you won't blame me for that. But the big difference with this law is that there is a percentage mentioned in the law and that is something other than caring for distribution, handling the environment or creation and so on. Of course, I fully agree with that. My problem is not so much with the intentions of the proposers. I firmly believe that they are very good, that they are looking for the good, also for the climate and the environment. But we are not here to say to them 'what good intentions you have', we are here for the legality, the rule of law and the constitutional choices about legislation. I can't imagine that we have other laws that we put this kind of percentage into. Let me give you another example. For example, we have a NATO treaty in which we agreed that 2% of gross national product should be spent on our defence. We are currently under about 8 billion. Do we believe, as with this law, that we should put this NATO agreement into a law? We do not do that either, while that is about something other than the climate, namely our immediate security. I hope that I have made it clear to Mr Reuten that I do not have a problem with the intentions, but that I do not think the vehicle, namely the law, is the right vehicle. It would be very interesting to hear from the authors what they think of that 2% gross national product; we are also doing a bit of the General Reviews. But it doesn't necessarily have to be, Madam President. I'm going on. I had indicated that my group was concerned, especially about the period up to 2050, because it would deal with the measures that are not so easy to achieve. For example, look at the built environment. The older houses will still be left untouched towards 2030, but after that they will get their turn, with all the costs. Can the Minister also reflect on this question? Madam President, that brings me to the third point of attention: the feasibility as part of the enforcement process. I mentioned that there are signs that the easiest targets to be achieved will be implemented until 2030, as it now looks like. We still have to wait and see; we still do not have the climate agreement here. This may make that 49% feasible, but then the difficult tasks will come under considerable pressure on feasibility. I ask the proposers and the government to make this observation. I call this not to create fear, but to take a realistic look at a bill that could seriously get us into trouble. After all, a recent example is Urgenda. That's where the government is forced by the judge to deliver. Well, there is also a risk if a law lays down the objectives to be met explicitly. Does the Minister see this as a risk? How does the government intend to respond to this, should this Chamber accept the Climate Act? Madam President, I will conclude with a quote from Senator Ganzevoort that he said yesterday when he discussed the Labour Market Act in balance. He said: "Sympathetic proposals that are counterproductive or cannot be enforced or realised should not be given the status of law." I do not always agree with Mr Ganzevoort, but this time I do. I'm curious to hear the answers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you. Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u54	I would like to return to my previous interruption of resources. The Paris Convention has been submitted to this Chamber for ratification. Your group also voted in favour. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u55	I don't think so, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u56	Anyway. Does the SGP spokesman think that the treaty should not have been concluded either? It also contains quantitative objectives and does not provide the means to achieve them. Do you think that treaty should not have been concluded by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u57	I actually see that Paris Treaty as something like the NATO Treaty. A standard has also been agreed. This is an objective for the Member States. Under the Paris Convention, it is not the Member States but about 200 States that have committed themselves to the Convention and are working hard on it. Its intentions are not the problem, I have just said. But putting in the law a lower limit or an upper limit seems problematic to me. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u58	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u59	But that leads to nothing more than an implementation of international agreements. I would like to see you discuss the parallel between the two that is or is not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u60	I thought I'd done that extensively. I'll try to keep repeating it. I see that our current government has given room and justice to the Paris climate goals in its coalition agreement. In other words, that happens. This Treaty of Paris is also being tried in the Netherlands, and the government of the Netherlands is trying to implement it. I didn't say anything against that either. My problem is: keep it pure, legal and make sure you don't get the government and future Cabinets in trouble by putting an impossible standard in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you to Mr Schalk for the compliments to Mr Ganzevoort, whom I shall pass on. I do think that the opinion of GroenLinks on this law and the word "sympathetic" that has to do with it will be a different matter from what you have said here. This also applies to the law that was dealt with yesterday. I've been looking it up for a while. Only the PVV voted against the ratification of the Paris Agreement; the SGP was in favour at the time. Mr. Schalk, at the beginning of your speech, you said that we consider a reliable government important. You are now saying: this law does not seem to us to be the best way to implement that climate agreement; the government agreement already gives support to the Paris agreement and this government is taking action. I could also imagine, from the perspective of a reliable government, that citizens, businesses and others would like to know what is happening after this period of government and that the objectives were set for a reason between now and 2050. I'd be interested to hear your reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u62	Let me begin with those sympathetic proposals. The labour market balance bill had just as much sympathy in this Chamber. We felt that the Minister was working very hard to find balance at least. Today it is. There are about seven petitioners I just heard, but that doesn't matter who have excellent intentions. I have sympathy for their search for how we can improve the climate in the Netherlands. I was called here as a senator to look at the legislation and whether we are doing it properly. By including standards in the law in this way, so by saying "49% by 2030 and by 2050 it has to go all the way to zero," you make it virtually impossible for the government to reflect on all kinds of situations that we don't even know yet. Take, for example, an economic crisis. We know that it is a kind of law: every ten years we dive deeper than ever, it seems. Do you have to hold a government at such a time to perhaps very expensive goals? I do not know and I cannot know because the applicants refuse to give an indication of the costs. We are therefore presented with a law which sets standards, but this initiative proposal does not meet the normal requirements of validity that a law may impose. Then as the First Chamber, you should also say: come first with those calculations. Then you can see if it's really possible or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u64	You call me "Mr. Fun" all the time. Well, then I kind of like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u65	I'm glad to see you. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u67	It's mutual, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u68	I'm almost out of my mind. Mr. Schalk mentioned the crisis. Then you have to act, and then these objectives might be out of the picture. If you want to keep the property you've been entrusted with, crisis or not, then that objective is there. You started with what is a fundamental task for you. I'd like to remind you of that. Moreover, we often do what happens here in the laws and regulations, which is to translate a long term into regulation. Remember how we deal with the funding gap. We have all made agreements on this subject, which make it possible to apply heights. That is long-term thinking, and we do so when there is a serious crisis. You might be inclined to deviate from that, but then it is very good that there is a law that says: stop, there is a higher interest here. That's what's happening here. I think that's the value and strength of this law. Maybe you can reflect on that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u69	It is precisely the example that Mr Pleasure, or Mr Pijlman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u70	For me, it's every time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u71	We're having fun, Madam President. The example mentioned by Mr Pijlman is a correct example, but the strength of that example is precisely that butter is being added to the fish. Then we know what it costs, but we don't know that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u73	Madam President. We know the calculations of De Nederlandsche Bank and we know that it is very feasible if we do this steadily. This has just been pointed out by Mr Ester. Honestly, I don't see those objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u74	I can't do so much about it that you don't see them, but about that feasibility. It may also come under pressure. We know from the crisis from 2008 to 2014 that it was under pressure in some years. Then the government comes to the Chamber with a budget that shows, for example, a problem there. It'll be discussed in the Chamber and it'll be resolved. Here we are dealing only with an objective without adequate financial coverage. My group warns against this, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS wants to start its contribution with a compliment to the initiators of the law that should limit global warming and climate change of this earth. The initiators are a kind of rescue brigade and that gives us a duty to see if this rescue brigade has enough opportunities and resources to carry out its mission, to prevent it from going down. 50PLUS supports the ideological objective, not only for the present generation, but also for children, grandchildren and future generations. It is not for nothing that our election programme says: "By reducing CO emissions and other environmental measures, 50PLUS is monitoring the viability of future generations." By doing so, 50PLUS takes a position of principle that makes us stand out from parties as Forum for Democracy and the PVV. That is why the proposers and the government will have to take seriously our concerns which are at the same time and which are well-founded. The present bill reminds us of a number of members of a housing group who order a future residence. Exactly how many living, bedrooms and bathrooms are needed, the number of kitchens and guest rooms is fixed, the terraces are numbered and the square meters green are not missing either. The years on which the first layer and the completion with the top layer must be completed are fixed even though the first delivery may be made later than the end date. But what is not committed is the costs, how they should be financed and how they should be shared among the participants. 50PLUS is concerned about the reality of climate ambitions. Do the initiators agree with 50PLUS that inexcusable conditions are that there should be support for the inhabitants of the Netherlands as well as affordability for everyone with a proportionate contribution towards carrying capacity? Can the Minister also endorse this statement? Then let's make sure. An image is created that is guaranteed by the adoption of this law that the objectives will be met by 2050. Of course, 50PLUS hopes that this will happen, but honesty to the citizens commands that it is nevertheless very uncertain. There is no cost, there is no burden for the citizen and there may be economic setbacks in the coming years that lead to a different ranking in the financial budgets. We will also depend on what the countries around us and elsewhere in the world are doing, and that makes a guarantee in a law on what needs to be achieved in more than 30 years' time, rather relative to put it mildly. A first plan should be laid down this year and updated every five years thereafter. We know that all eight parties submitting this climate law are absolutely not united on how to achieve the goals. How to deal, in addition to the financial problems, with the unpleasantness for citizens such as changing lifestyles, building nuisances, open roads, noise pollution from water pumps, etc. What if citizens think this is unreasonable? Do you propose that the next few years of elections in which the climate plays a major role show that adjustments are necessary in order not to lose the support of the inhabitants? What can be expected from the five-yearly discussions on the impact on the economy, employment and the income position of, in particular, lower incomes? What if this is going to cost jobs or companies are crossing the border because there are other legislation? Could that not be at least as sensitive as the dividend tax for which this government had almost everything left? The authors of the legislative proposal themselves write in the reply that it is still uncertain what measures will be taken over the next 30 years to achieve the objectives and that social and technological development should identify the measures most appropriate. That assessment is left to the cabinet. What happens if the international pace does not keep pace with the Dutch momentum? The applicants of the Climate Act stated in the reply of 12 March 2019 that they considered that developments on a global and European scale should be taken into account. Can they explain what this means? Taking account of international developments? Could this also make the objectives uncertain by 2050? In politics, capital letters must be written, otherwise there will be many election evenings where losing leaders of traditional parties will once again be confounded but will be widely talked about the gap between voters and The Hague. The director of the Economic Institute for Construction, Taco van Hoek, himself 20 years of mathematician at the CPB, said it strikingly: "with only ideology you can't get there." You can't pour it into concrete. He warned that not one generation is going to bend what has caused several generations. In this context, we have two further questions for the government. With the disappearance of fossil fuels, very high tax revenues will disappear. Does the government have any idea how much billion we are talking about and can the government indicate a direction in which to compensate for this tax loss? We would like to know from the proposers and government whether they share the view that for low-income people the increase in costs is more significant. This also applies to companies. In this context, we call for particular attention to be paid to the elderly. The conversion to other energy sources with associated equipment must be made and written off by them in a shorter period. They have fallen considerably behind in recent years because pensions have not been indexed or even reduced over the past ten years. New discounts appear to be imminent in the short term and there will be no indexation at all in the coming years. Burden increases resulting from the elaboration of this Climate Act will affect them disproportionately and this accumulation of purchasing power loss is unacceptable for the group of older people. Can the initiators, for once, avoid the escape route of "we are not about the impact" but indicate that they consider compensatory measures necessary for this group? Is the Minister prepared to defend this position in the Cabinet? We also want a reply from the Minister to the fact that pensions are based on a government calculation rate of about 1.5%, but that according to the calculation of the PBL, climate calculations are based on a discount rate of 3%. That is completely unfair. I have looked again at the significance of the discount rate in the general Court's glossary, which is clear to everyone. It states that the discount rate is a factor to ensure that series with annual costs of various project variants are made comparable. There's no two-way explanation for that, is there? Can the Minister explain why double standards are incomprehensible to citizens, and can the Minister estimate what it would be financial if it were to be based not on 3% but on 1.5%? I'd like the most concrete amount possible. Finally, we repeat that for 50PLUS absolute conditions are the acceptance of the inhabitants of the Netherlands and the affordability for everyone. Therefore, 50PLUS reiterates its appeal to the proposers and minister: show understanding and engage with the people who have difficulty with it, who are afraid of the practical and financial consequences, and make sure that in practice these people do not feel deceived. Please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I would just like to say to those who sit behind the government table that the acoustics in this Chamber are very good. So I hear you talking, even though you're trying to whisper, and that might be a little tricky for the others, too. So maybe you can narrow that down. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everything is within walking distance if you take your time. I hear a phone: all phones off. This is a quote from Steven Wright who seems to bring a distant destination closer by going step by step with a clear compass in his hand. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting the initiators and their supporters. Of course, this also applies to one of the original initiators, Diederik Samsom. According to the PvdA's group, the initiators deserve this compliment for laying the foundations for a long-term political alliance across the coalition and opposition boundaries. They ensure that this broad consensus also provides continuity over government periods. This long-term approach is in line with the Policy Letter of October 2016 of the Government Policy Scientific Council. In this policy letter, the WRR calls for a legal anchoring of an objective for 2050, stating: "In doing so, politics attaches itself to a goal that goes beyond the reign of a cabinet. This sends out a clear signal about the long-term course, but it does not now identify the technology used to achieve the emission reduction. Thus, there remains scope for intermediate technology and other policy discussions to move forward and changing circumstances. Thus, legal anchoring, political self-binding can be combined with adaptability." It's a long, but fitting quote. And that's exactly what this law does and doesn't do. The main line of the law is actually quite simple. With this Climate Act, we set out the Paris climate agreements in a law on climate change, the debate has just gone on with an intermediate target in 2030 and a final target in 2050. And not unimportant: this law guarantees a steady process of policy-making and democratic control. This provides the basis for a predictable and manageable climate policy. The bill in itself is not a solution to the climate issue. The law, as also advised by the WRR, does not specify how the final goal should be achieved. It is still uncertain what measures will be taken in the next 30 years to achieve the objectives. Surely it is going to be a mega operation that cannot be underestimated. That is right to worry about people and businesses in our country. What's gonna happen when? And what am I supposed to do? And most importantly, how much is it going to cost? So much more about this. But 30 years is also a very long time. Looking ahead to the knowledge of now thirty years is therefore also impossible. This inevitably leaves concrete implementation uncertain. After all, we do not yet know what measures are going to be taken to remove the objective from the law. We can look back 30 years for comparison. And then it becomes clear how much is changing in 30 years. Just think about the impact of the arrival of computers and mobile phones in our daily lives. The changes over the last 30 years have been enormous. Much can and will change over the next 30 years on the road to 2050, but that is no reason to sit back and wait, because the Netherlands is one of the climate barriers in Europe. So we have to get out of the starting blocks right away, but not rushed. Step forward, as a diesel, although this is, of course, a completely wrong comparison in this debate. Step by step on the way to the intermediate target and the final target. As De Nederlandsche Bank also points out: a gradual transition is more affordable than a shock-by-shock implementation of climate policy. Professor Katrien Termeer deals with the administrative side of tough social issues. Years of research taught her that changes are often not great and compelling, but in small, meaningful steps. "Small wins" she calls it. Those small victories also apply well to the climate issue. By the way, I sometimes get the impression that many people and companies, fortunately also many young people in the country, are far further away from these small victories than we are here in The Hague. Climate thinking is already a good thing for many people. Recently an example from my own neighborhood. A neighbor had an offer made to isolate his house. He asked in the neighborhood app: who's in, because if we all do it together, it'll be cheaper too? We're a little bit Dutch anyway. And within 24 hours, everyone in the neighborhood would have said, "We're in." Payback time of the investment: four years. Just a small example on a very nice square in Eindhoven. Climate transition requires a lot of our jointly innovative and learning capacity. Much of the concrete implementation is still unclear. The bill contains some specific tasks for the Planning Bureau for the Environment as a scientific consultancy for the Cabinet in the field of climate. But, of course, knowledge and learning ability of many is needed to bring this task to a successful conclusion. Knowledge institutions, companies, residents, young and old. How do we get the best out of our knowledge-intensive country? Have the initiators thought about this? If so, please have a reflection on that. And also the question to the Minister whether he will explicitly make knowledge development part of the first climate plan. If so, how? We'd like to hear from him his first vision. Learning also involves experimenting. That is why the question to the Minister how he intends to make this part of his climate note. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the target is still far away. We start with small steps, with the current knowledge, the current state of the art and the well-known role of the government and the current legislation. These are designed to solve the problems of the past. Evident is that they will also develop over the next 30 years, or that possible system changes are needed. For us as States-General, there is therefore a constant question as to whether the legislation in force causes obstacles in the implementation of this Climate Law. The members of my group are now facing three legal systems of possible problems. Firstly, competition law. The government has a duty of care for the citizen as a consumer. This is provided for by competition law. However, climate change also requires other concerns from the government. Then it is about protecting the citizens and the future generation with the care of dry feet and sufficient food. It is not unthinkable that the two interests will bite each other. And how are these interests weighed? Does the Minister consider that European competition rules may need to be adapted in this light and is the Minister prepared to argue for this in Europe? Secondly, state aid. The energy transition will be accompanied by many innovations, where investment on a practical scale may be too risky. The rules governing State aid determine the scope here. Does the Minister foresee that, given the public interest of the energy transition, European State aid rules need to be adapted? Here again the question to the Minister whether he is prepared to argue for this in Europe. And what is the view of the initiators on this? Finally, these three. Regional authorities have an important role to play in the implementation of climate action, close to citizens in their neighbourhood or village. This also requires room for regulation for the other governments. Are they adequately equipped in terms of regulation? Has the Minister considered decentralising national regulations and, if so, in what areas? Mr. Chairman. The final goal is clear after today, not yet the way to it. This requires something from all of us, ladies and gentlemen politicians. In order to make the implementation of this law a success, it is important that the States-General, as the Council of State puts it, "takes responsibility for the implementation of this policy." My group notes that the climate of the climate debate, as it were, is hardening, in politics and in society. In our view, it is important to bridge the contradictions and to work together, coalition and opposition. This is not a simple task in an environment where magnifying differences is a daily activity. Nevertheless, there are seven united initiators here today, but there are also major political contradictions, which may be clear. It takes courage and leadership to continue to bridge these contradictions in the coming years, even if the measures are going to hurt. According to the Council of State, "no non-binding attitude of the States-General" is appropriate. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators expressed their support for this. We therefore ask the proposers to explain how they see this taking responsibility in the years to come. Is this a joint responsibility? Is this self-evident or does it require further agreements? Have the initiators talked about this? Has it been considered, for example, to appoint a parliamentary guidance committee or a rapporteur on behalf of Parliament, with a special focus on Parliament's own role in filling the how-question in the coming years? Mr. Chairman. We are going to talk about climate very often here in the First Chamber over the next few years. For the PvdA Group, three issues will be at the heart of the assessment of the laws before us. Firstly, the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. As the concrete measures are not yet known, it is difficult to determine the total costs. Nevertheless, there is something to be said about it. The Plan Bureau for the Environment has made a calculation and states that the national costs of the proposed policy amount to almost €2 billion in 2030. These costs for the target in 2050 were estimated at 2% of gross national product in previous studies of the PBL. This gives some idea of the cost and that is a lot of money, but in 30 years no impossible task. Moreover, it is good to give an explicit consideration to the cost of non-action. Because our total spatial developments are turning their heads at 5 meters of sea level and the precipitation that has been predicted. There are over 3,000 kilometers of sea and river dikes in the Netherlands. Raising sea dikes alone is likely to cost hundreds of billions. To keep our water safety in order at rising sea levels and to keep the Netherlands habitable, we need a multitude of investments every year. The initiators have not included in the legislative proposal any criteria to determine whether a particular implementation of climate policy is affordable and how the costs should be shared. The law asks the cabinet to explain the impact on the financial position of households and businesses in successive climate plans, with specific attention being paid to SMEs. For the PvdA this is the pressing point in the coming years. Is there a fair and just distribution of desires and burdens? Here we are going to test the laws and regulations. The question to the Minister is whether he can give an insight into how he intends to implement that fair sharing of burdens and desires in the first climate plan. Mr. Chairman. A second point...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u79	Good point of affordability and of the strongest shoulders that must bear the most. I also hear Mrs Fiers talking about the small steps that need to be taken, climate plans. Doesn't she mean to say, like me, that this climate law is a bit premature? Let us first come up with some plans, show what it will cost and then walk a normal path, as we are used to in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u80	Maybe this circumstance doesn't require a normal path. I think it is very good, as the WRR also recommends, to lay down the long-term objective in a law and not completely close it down, because so much is going to change over the next 30 years. So we're going to have to move gradually towards that goal. But I think it's really an achievement of magnitude that you dare to set a clear goal over the coalition and the opposition over reigns. So that translation of the Paris climate agreement into a law is, I think, a very good first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u81	I understand the reasoning. On the other hand, Mrs Fiers has also pointed out that there are great differences, even behind the table, in the case of all kinds of climate targets that may be included in the climate agreement. In other words, all this will have to be fought politically. In the meantime, we have placed an open account and that does not quite match the merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u82	No, but the open bill is of course also there if we do nothing, because there is also a cost to be incurred in not taking action. I think it is very good to set the target and then say that we are moving towards it step by step. You know us and our views. This will mean that for the legislation that passes through here, I will just refer to the energy bill that we discussed here last December, which will always be the key to the fair distribution of lusts and burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u83	One final point, Madam President. It is, I think, not quite real to say: this law or do nothing at all. Because there's so much in there. If you do not support this law, it does not mean that we are not doing anything about the climate, but you will, for example, give it to the authors: keep this law until we know what is in the climate agreement. At least we'll know what costs we'll have to expect. And then you can make a decision on that basis. But it's not like, if this law were to be voted down or withheld, we wouldn't have to do anything. Of course, my group did not want to argue that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u84	But I do not think that, at the moment when the first climate plan is in place, we are already able to calculate the cost to the decimal place. Over the next 30 years, a lot is going to change. There will be all kinds of technological innovations, which, I think, makes it impossible to say: let's wait for that. Then we wait for everything. So I think it's very good to set the goal. That's what targets us all over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u85	I have listened very carefully to what has been said so far. It is now entirely about costs; that is also quite understandable. I have also tried to make it clear in my story that a balance has two sides: not only the costs but also the revenues from climate policy. I gave some examples of this. Could I invite you to reflect on that very briefly, in order to balance that story much better? Because I also see now that it is going to burden our discussion a little bit if we focus our macroeconomic and micro-economic on those costs, no matter how important it is, without taking into account the story of the proceeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u86	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u87	I'm asking you to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u88	Sorry, Chairman. The focus in such a debate is, of course, where the exciting points lie. However, I fully agree with you that a number of measures, for example in the field of housing isolation, will bring enormous comfort and that in the long term there will be less cost when it comes to energy. It is a question of investment and, in the long term, a lower account. There are now very good examples of this. I was just talking about our knowledge-intensive country. At the moment when we are all focusing on this goal, there is a tremendous amount of strength, innovative power, to make it a new economic engine. We have also proved this when it comes to our water policy, the approach to water. In part, this is also based on our location. I am convinced that the knowledge-based country of the Netherlands can make a lot of money in the world. So I agree with you: let us not only look at the doom scenarios of what it is going to cost, but let us also look very closely at what it can bring us. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the second point. I had three, so we're almost at the end. In order to realise this task, it is important that everyone can participate and participate. Article 5 of the Climate Act provides that the Climate Plan is to be prepared by means of an approach procedure under the General Administrative Law Act. This is a formal guarantee that anyone who feels involved in climate policy can be involved in the development of that climate plan. Of course that is fine in itself, but it is very minimal for a Climate Law and a climate plan that requires intensive participation from all over society. Can the initiators and the minister indicate how they see a broad participation of society as a whole and what they believe is necessary for this? What role do they see for the cabinet and for themselves? In addition, Article 8 of the Act provides that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy must also consult relevant parties that concern climate policy. Those relevant parties are therefore also parties with an explicit self-interest. According to the members of the PvdA Group, this calls for transparency. It is a great social task for all of us. It is therefore important to make transparent who brings in which interests and how they are weighed. That is why I ask the Minister if he agrees with us. How does he intend to achieve this transparency throughout the climate policy cycle? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, employment. The energy transition will have a major impact on employment. Employment is lost in some sectors and jobs are created in others. The Planning Office for the Environment, together with the Research Centre for Education and Labour Market, presented critical and promising sectors. In 2018, the ESC also wrote the Readable Energy Transition and Employment Report. In summary, a successful transition requires investment in people. According to the ESC, it is important for employers and employees to consult in good time in order to achieve work-to-work paths. Employees and employers should take initiatives together and reflect on career advice, training budgets and guidance from work to work. It is therefore a major challenge for education to train professionals in the coming years. With such a great national task, however, there is also work to be done for the Empire. This is not something that employers and employees in the different sectors alone can solve. Hence the question to the Minister: can he tell us what he is doing or is going to do on his way to the first climate plan to help people from work to work and to train enough young professionals? How does he propose to make lifelong learning a reality? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The Climate Act sets the final goal of climate policy in 2050, but there is still much unclear about how. After today, it is important that we go step by step with the compass in hand. Then the end goal is within walking distance. The members of the PvdA Group look forward with interest to the answers of the initiators and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, today we have the right to speak of an historic moment. The aim of the Climate Act for the climate policy of the Netherlands is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands to a level 95% below 1990 levels by 2050. Compared to coalition agreements, election programmes, covenants and social agreements and so on, this Climate Act provides a much more solid basis and perspective beyond elections and government periods. GroenLinks is pleased that this law has been in place for the first time since the autumn of 2016 and that, after a good preparation, we can deal with it in the current term of office. Compliments to the initiators for the submission of this law and for the smooth and adequate written response. The latter, of course, also applies to the government. The Climate Act is called full Act Proposal, and then there will be a very long line of names, most of whom are at the table here, providing a framework for the development of policies aimed at irreversible and gradual reduction of Dutch greenhouse gas emissions in order to limit global global warming and climate change. I deliberately refer to this extended title, because it clearly indicates what the law is and what it is not, what the law is and what it does not mean, what the law does prescribe and what the law does not prescribe. This is in the current political climate, in which consciously or unconsciously 'Climate Law' and 'Climate Agreement' are confused, in which ghost amounts are circulating about how much the Climate Law would cost and what measures would be inevitable, not, as far as we are concerned, an unnecessary luxury. I would therefore like to add my contribution today to the key words of this law, incorporating my group's views on the law, as well as questions to both the initiators and the government. A frame. This is the charming clarity and simplicity of the bill before us. It is a framework that needs to be completed, which identifies climate policy, not climate policy. As long as it contributes to CO-neutral electricity production and minus 95% greenhouse gases by 2050, with a target of 49% by 2030. There are no concrete figures for limiting climate change and global warming. At the same time, clarity and simplicity may also make the legislative proposal vulnerable: it raises the question of whether we are still on course for the purpose of 2050 with all the intermediate steps and measures being taken. And to that question is only partly to give a factual, scientific answer. As the initiators rightly point out in relation to the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the Council of State and their respective roles: "The added value of legal purposes depends, inter alia, on a timely, authoritative and public alert that jeopardises the achievement of the objectives." But even where there is such an alert, there is always a political weighting and a political judgment of the political majority of that time. That is why we believe that the climate plan is the crucial link in this bill. After all, the climate plan indicates how the cabinet intends to achieve the objectives set out in Article 2. Or, even more precisely, what is needed to establish at the end of the term of that climate plan that progress has been made in such a way that the target of 2050 remains achievable in the remaining years. In order to respond to current developments and new insights, the climate plan is adopted by the Cabinet at least once every five years. Every two years, progress is reported in line with EU agreements on the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan. Therefore, Article 4 (2) does not say for nothing: if this report is justified in the light of the objectives of this law, action will be taken. Unrecoverable. The Climate Plan contains a number of considerations, such as the state of climate science, technological developments and the European and international context. In addition, however, the climate plan contains concrete measures for the objectives of the law and to increase the share of renewable energy. It says "stimulate," but I still read it as "enlarge." In other words, the climate plan is a vision document and implementation programme. In particular, that second part, the implementation programme calls for a greater role of the Chambers and the possibility of amending measures to encourage more and rapid action by the Cabinet. The "measures to be taken" will remain in the middle of those who do exactly that and who are going to encourage them to do so. In other words, the reasoning of the initiators that it is very unlikely that a cabinet would adopt a climate plan against the wishes of the majority of the Chamber and that the Chamber could make motions if it wanted to adjust, seems to us to be weak. We therefore believe that the adoption of the climate plan by the two Chambers is a crucial link between ambition and implementation. I'd like a response from the initiators. Our questions about irreversibility also relate to the possible political waters in which the climate and energy exploration of the Plan Bureau for the Environment could come. After all, this exploration not only shows what has actually happened to greenhouse gas emissions, but also shows what developments and measures have had an impact on these emissions. The climate note then indicates how the results of the exploration will be translated into changes to the climate plan. But what happens if the exploration shows that emissions have increased or remained stable and this is due to measures taken by the Cabinet or the lack of such measures? This is all the more true because there is an effort and no result obligation for the period up to 2030. As the initiators point out, due to the short-term uncertainties, the bill provides more room for the cabinet to deviate from the target range in 2030 under circumstances. As stated above, this can be achieved if, despite a real effort, the objective is not achievable. But who will determine whether the objective is not feasible and whether a real effort has been made? Step by step. The urgency of climate policy is high. We see that the strong support for climate policy is vulnerable, not least because of the unconvincing way in which the Dutch government has dealt with the climate issue in recent years and the refusal to face the urgency of tackling climate change. The longer and the more time it takes, the more radical the measures that still need to be taken in great haste and under great pressure. That'll show the Urgenda experience. GroenLinks supports a step-by-step approach, but insists on speed and speed. We think it is extremely sensible that the impact of climate policy on the financial position of households, businesses and governments, as well as the creation of what is called a fair transition, is firmly part of the climate plan. It is crucial to assess climate policy in the coming years, in addition to achieving the objectives set, in particular a fair sharing of burdens, between citizens and between citizens and businesses. A point that we have made in the Financial Reviews, the General Political Reviews, the Tax Plan and the storage of renewable energy more than enough, I think. Similarly, it is good that the Climate Action Paper addresses the financial impact on households, businesses and governments of significant climate policy developments that differ from what was originally expected in the Climate Plan. However, we think that this is particularly due to the timing of the climate note that was published in October. It is unclear how exactly the link is being made with the more general discussion we are having every year on purchasing power and income development for different groups in society. I'd like a response from the initiators. In order to maintain and strengthen the support base for climate policy, the involvement of society is essential. The Labour Party pointed that out as well. In all the steps that need to be taken between now and 2050, we cannot do without all the initiatives of local energy cooperatives, schools, companies, institutions and, of course, also inspired individuals who each contribute in their own way, in their own place. In this respect, GroenLinks considers Chapter 4 of the Act on Participation to be a missed opportunity. Reference is made to consultations on the implementation of the law and the achievement of the objective with, in particular, the other authorities and the other relevant parties mentioned above. This sounds like participation in the classical, formal sense and is not very inviting and recruiting. I would therefore like to challenge the initiators to say a little more about how they see the participation of others than the administrative usual suspects and how the energy and dynamics that we see around climate change in society can be better exploited. Reducing Dutch emissions. Consciously, climate policy is limited to the Netherlands. The initiators rightly point out that, of course, the climate plan also addresses European and international developments, because climate change does not attract much from national borders. At the same time, it makes us curious whether the way this climate law is set up is done in a similar way elsewhere. Other countries with national climate laws are the United Kingdom, Denmark, Finland, France, Norway, Sweden and Mexico. My question to the initiators and the government is what these countries can learn from our climate law and, of course, the other way around. What can we learn from these other countries, depending on how far they are in developing their national legislation? By the way, it is only right that we set the bar high in the Netherlands. We find ourselves speaking in football terms low in the right row when it comes to the percentage of renewable energy. It is very doubtful whether we are going to achieve the modest target of 14% by 2023. We are looking at the goal of this law on greenhouse gases: in 2018, emissions amounted to 189.5 billion CO equivalents, 14% less than in 1990. That's a small step better than in 2017. Then it was minus 13%. The reduction in emissions in recent years is due in particular to reductions in CO emissions from coal-fired power stations and livestock production. 14% is still very far away from the target 25% reduction in emissions by 2020. Not to mention the 2030 targets. In the opinion of both the initiators and the government, what are the main measures to increase the pace of the transition to renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and how is the Climate Act going to boost this? Limiting climate change and global global warming. The Climate Act is ambitious, but at the same time it is clear that the efforts that the Netherlands is going to make on the basis of the objectives of this law will, in particular, make things less out of hand than if we did nothing at all. Climate change is not stopped or reversed, but limited. Same for global warming: the temperature is going to rise, but we are doing everything we can to stay as close to the 1.5°C as possible, and hopefully even something below it. However, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, that does not affect the great importance of this law and the awareness of an historic moment with which I started this contribution. It is good to see that this initiative from Parliament, initially from two parties, has over time become an extremely broad-based legislative proposal. As far as we are concerned, when it comes to climate change, it is time for action. But first of all, of course, we are very curious about the response of both the initiators and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SP Group, I congratulate the initiators on their achievement in bringing this bill to this Chamber. I would like to thank them for answering the questions raised by the House in the reply and the note on the report. Mr President, after a brief introduction, I will discuss four subjects: firstly, the objectives of the legislative proposal, secondly, the climate plan, thirdly, the achievement of the climate targets, and fourthly, a look ahead to the constellation of global countries in the climate perspective. I will conclude with a brief summary. Mr. Chairman. This bill sets out a policy framework for the Netherlands to limit climate change. It puts a dot on the horizon, as the initiators call it. They represent 78% of the House of Representatives with their political groups. It has been widely worn there, but it also seems to show the signs of a compromise. On the basis of the preliminary report and the final report of this Chamber, a limited number of political groups in the ranks of the initiators are fully enthusiastic about this bill. The most enthusiastic is the Minister of EZK in his appreciation of 30 November 2018 on behalf of the Cabinet, in which he concludes that "I quote the present bill is a support for the climate policy of the Cabinet and leaves sufficient space to the Cabinet, especially when preparing the climate plan. Mr. Chairman. My first topic concerns the objectives set out in the legislative proposal, as set out in Article 2. The proposal sets climate targets for 2050 and less harsh by 2030. In essence, this is the only substantive aspect of the legislative proposal. The initiators acknowledge this in the reply and the Minister of EZK acknowledges this in the aforementioned letter. These objectives hardly deviate from the Paris Convention, the ratification of which was fully supported by my group. In this light, the SP Group supports the substantive aspect of the present legislative proposal, although we prefer higher Dutch ambitions, also in the light of the fact that the Netherlands is the 17th economy among 217 world countries in terms of GDP size and the 13th in terms of GDP per capita. Because these positions are partly based on the Dutch colonial past, they bring with them a special responsibility. But the better for us is not the enemy of good. I have said the most important thing about the legislative proposal, and my group supports this aspect as indicated. Nevertheless, I would like to recall that international air and maritime transport is outside the Paris Convention and the legislative objectives, while this is a serious climate change and other environmental degradation. Mr President, I come to my second subject: the procedural aspect of the legislative proposal, which covers the rest of it. The proposal lays down procedures for achieving these objectives. That makes sense. Those procedures are laid down in Chapters 2 to 4. I shall begin with a comment on the climate plan in Chapter 2 and therefore Article 3 (2). This concerns seven elements which should be included in this plan. The first six deal with the physical aspects of the climate action to be taken. The seventh, part g, deals with the social consequences of the measures, including "the establishment of a fair and affordable transition." On our written questions on this subject, the reply and the note on the report show that the initiators differ on the meaning of the term 'fair'. My group only notes that over the next few decades there will be a political sting of the climate debate. To what extent will climate costs be borne in line with income? For my group, this will be a key issue in the coming years. The procedural chapters 3 and 4 have our full support. Apart from one detail, my group agrees with the climate plan procedures already mentioned. Well, that's a good thing! The pressing detail I am referring to is Chapter 2, Article 5, which is one of paragraphs 1 and 5. The initiators have chosen not to require the approval of the climate plan by parliament, but to have it established by the Minister of EZK or EZK. the government and not jointly by government and States-General. They motivate this by stating that the climate plan concerns only government policy and that it therefore does not require formal law. But nothing in the Dutch constellation prohibits the submission of a non-legislative document to Parliament for approval. It is therefore a choice of the initiators. Moreover, it is not prohibited to give policy ideas, such as a climate plan, the form of a formal law, such as budgetary laws, are also policy intentions. It is therefore a choice of the initiators. I would ask them later to confirm that, instead of their present choice, they could in principle have opted for one of the alternatives mentioned, without hindering the objectives of the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Why is the adoption of the climate plan by both government and parliament so important? Well, it is to be expected that the climate plans over the next 30 years will have long-term far-reaching consequences for society. The initiators even call them "inconvertible." But the initiators do not consider parliamentary approval of the climate plan to be such a point because the cabinet plans can be adjusted by motions and, in extreme cases, by giving up confidence in a minister or cabinet. But certainly the latter usually means the end of a government coalition. Why, I ask the initiators, do they choose the complicated path when the simple way of approval by Parliament is obvious? This simple road is entirely in line with the Dutch parliamentary system. Mr President, I await the answers of the initiators to this point and, if necessary, I shall table a motion on this subject in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u93	This is a crucial part of Mr Reuten's speech, I think. Maybe he can do a little more to outline the advantages and disadvantages of both procedures. Of course, Parliament's controlling role remains completely intact. This is also outlined by the initiators in their reply to Mr Reuten's questions on this subject. But can he give a little more body to his own perspective by briefly setting out the pros and cons, so that for us as listeners, what are the implications? If the role of Parliament is at stake, and Mr Reuten seems to think so, then that is not a small beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u94	No. I said what I have to say about that. Firstly, it is in line with the Dutch parliamentary system, particularly since it is a serious issue. Annual budget proposals shall also be submitted to Parliament for approval. Then the last resort is sending home a cabinet, but that's not a small beer. A government coalition won't be using that drug soon. As a result, it weakens the position of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u95	I would like to add one final question. I'm mostly looking for a positive explanation of the story. The point is: is climate policy going to be better if we choose the variant you are talking about here? That's what it should be about. How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u96	The positive explanation is that this is a major issue which will have to be borne to the maximum by society, represented by Parliament. That is why the priority must be with Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u97	I, like you, have asked more or less the same question, so why the initiators chose this procedure. But in the Netherlands we do not know a substantive legal concept. This procedure in itself is therefore quite correct. The representative bodies may also influence legislative proposals that follow from the climate plan. I'm asking for an explanation. If it goes as you like, does that mean that the whole procedure, including the advice of the Council of State, must be followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u98	No, I'll leave that in the middle. I have indicated that nothing in the Dutch constellation prohibits a non-legislative proposal from being submitted to Parliament for approval. That's what it's actually done with. You can choose the other way, so you can choose a law. Then you must indeed follow the whole usual procedure. Mr President, I come to my third subject: the achievement of the objectives of the legislative proposal and its actual material prioritisation in government objectives. As the initiators recognize, the procedures that have just been discussed do not guarantee that the objectives are actually being achieved, unfortunately. In my words, they give future governments every opportunity to set aside all or part of their objectives or their impact. And, like the 2015 Paris Convention, there are no sanctions for non-effectuating the targets set, unfortunately. In the first letter of amendment, the initiators wrote: "If the objectives of government policy change, this will have to be reflected by a change in the law." The draft law which may be passed under the law is the subject of discussion. The SP Group disputes that the text of the bill requires this if the current or future cabinet states that it fully endorses the climate targets set out in the bill, but that, given other government objectives and/or social problems, they are not a priority. This is a gap in the bill. In particular, the Constitutional Articles 18 (1) and 20 (1) to which the SP Group referred in the final report provide ample scope for the government to, for example, not formal but materially prioritise distribution of wealth and/or the promotion of employment over and above the climate objectives set out in the bill, without requiring any amendment to the proposed law. Contrary to the intentions of the initiators, whom my group supports, the present or future government has ample scope to formally align the objectives set out in the legislative proposal, but to materially undermine other government objectives. I ask the initiators whether they can confirm this and, if not, how they refute the arguments of the SP Group. Furthermore, and we also pointed out this in the final report, the consideration required in the climate plan under Article 3 (2)g does not give any criteria or restrictions on climate policy. Finally, on this subject. If the climate plan were to be adopted jointly by government and parliament, as set out in my previous topic, a government cannot confine itself, depending on the composition of a parliament, to a minimalist climate plan. I would like to hear from the initiators whether they support this and, if not, why not. Mr President, I come to my fourth and final point: a preview. I will soon be a member of this Chamber for nine years, and in the exercise of this important and honourable political function I have always involved my insights from scientific economic research. I don't want to leave that behind on this bill. For what I outline in five minutes, I use some results from my recent book The unity of the capitalist economy and state. If I see it correctly, the constellation of world countries will be quite different from the current one, by combining global climate measures and international capital flows aimed at international migration of production in 15 to 20 years' time. Both will be accompanied by an international and possibly national redistribution of income. Climate measures are not free of charge and may have income distribution effects within national states in the coming decades. In the Netherlands we are already seeing the first skirmishes about this. In international terms, the GDP per head of poor countries can rightly claim that rich countries are historically and today the main cause of climate change and that the latter have to make the most relative contribution to the solution. Then climate change also has international income redistribution effects and, I believe, is right. There is another international redistribution process, namely the international migration of production by multinational companies through international capital flows. Until 1980 they were virtually negligible on a global scale. This results in an increasing downward pressure on wages for the current GDP per head of population, including the Netherlands. As a result, downward pressure on wage-related taxes is exerted by the vast majority of taxes on wages and salaries, resulting in downward pressure on social security benefits. The reverse upward trend is the current level of GDP per head of middle and low income countries, which is good for those countries. China provided a quantitatively significant harbinger of the consequences of this process. At the same time, this international redistribution of income is putting increasing pressure on the legitimacy of the state in today's high-income countries. This can already be seen in party political movements and in yellow-necked activism. Under pressure from the aforementioned problems of identity for the per capita high-income countries, there is a risk that they will again impose restrictions on international production migration, as in many cases before 1980, at the expense of the middle and low-income countries. Then it is foreseen that the latter will largely fit in with climate change. Finally, climate change seems difficult to overcome without a significant reduction in international trade and its growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u99	I am impressed by Mr Reuten's scientific speech. It does take me to the next question. Before starting the scientific part, he referred to the Constitution, Articles 20 and 21. The argument he just made shows how important it is to spread prosperity. Does the SP fraction also have an explanation of what article, 20 or 21? You mentioned them both, and there's just tension on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u100	Those articles of the constitution are secondary. That is where the problem lies. One of the constitutional articles is about the environment. Those articles of the Constitution state that the government is concerned about these issues, but the extent to which the government does so is essentially open. Conversely, when it comes to the objectives of the legislative proposal before us, the government can, by appealing to the Constitution, say that we are obliged to give this and this priority over the climate objectives. That is, in short, the key point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u101	That's a nice explanation. This means that there can be a clash of these fundamental rights. You referred to both articles in an interruption and, of course, I immediately started looking for what is in them. Indeed, in summary: provide prosperity in article 20, and take care of the environment and environment in article 21. They could collide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u102	They can do that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u103	Maybe they're doing that already. Then, on that basis, the government is going to make choices that may conflict with the bill that lies here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u105	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u106	In my group's view, there is a gap in the legislative proposal. I would have stayed with a third point in my reflection on the years to come. Climate change seems difficult to overcome without a significant reduction in international trade and its growth. The transport of this international trade generates 30% of global CO transport emissions and more than 7% of total global emissions. According to OECD projections, this would increase to the quadruple by 2050, but its air and maritime component is outside the Paris Convention and the objectives of the legislative proposal. Substantial international trade reduction requires significant restructuring of national production structures. To what extent this effect on the distribution of national and international income is not or hardly quantifyable, but because international trade is mainly in favour of the high-income countries, it is likely that the impact will be greatest in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. This is in short the tension field for the next fifteen to twenty years. I will now conclude with a brief summary of the first three topics. The objectives set out in the legislative proposal are an important social signal and my group supports these objectives, although they should have been more stringent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u107	I note that Mr Reuten is very much in agreement with us on the impact of this climate law, albeit...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u108	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u109	I have just heard Mr Reuten say that there are dramatic consequences for the world income distribution and that they are to a large extent at the expense of the richer countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u110	I didn't call it dramatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u111	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u112	Can we conduct the discussion in order? Mr. Van Strien, you have an interruption and when you're done with your lines, you'll come. Mr. Reuten. And through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u113	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is how he will explain this to the Dutch people. Does Mr Reuten think that it will be taken when, as a result of this climate law, dramatic, these are my words, so let's say "force" shifts in income relations arise within the Dutch population?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u115	I sometimes get the impression, Mr. Van Strien, that the PVV group doesn't talk to young people very much. When you talk to young people, that's what you sometimes see in actions on the street... Those people have a life ahead of them and they see that climate change coming at them. We have only seen certain signs of this last summer, but there are still many such summers to come. Yes, I think that combating climate change will certainly be borne especially by young people. I do not doubt that, but perhaps Mr Van Strien is dealing with the wrong people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mr. Van Strien, one more interruption in this area and then we need to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u117	It could be, Mr. Reuten. I note that the adage for the SP is: après nous, le déluge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u118	You're saying what I could have told you. I mean Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u119	Continue your argument, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u120	Yeah, I was just finishing up, and I don't know where I left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u121	The sentence that begins with "the objectives of the bill"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u122	Yes. The objectives set out in the legislative proposal are an important social signal that my group supports, although they should have been more stringent. The legislative proposal also lays down procedures for achieving these objectives. My group supports the principle of such procedures. However, because it is foreseen that the climate plans will have long-term far-reaching consequences for society over the next 30 years, my group believes that it is by far preferable to have the climate plan adopted by the government and Parliament together. This would be in line with the Dutch parliamentary system. This would also make it difficult for the current or future government to materially weaken climate objectives in other government objectives. Mr. Chairman. I'll close with that. I look forward to the comments of the initiators and, in particular, I look forward to their answers to our four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u123	Thank you, Mr. Reuten. I would also advise everyone to take the nut machine, as Mr Reuten knows, because it contains a lot of data. Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of my group, I am choosing a slightly different approach from the previous speaker, and I shall begin with three statements from the scientific and business community. I start with Robbert Dijkgraaf, theoretical physicist and since 2012 director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. He said some time ago that having a climate debate is like discussing gravity. A second verdict. A group of climatologists from Switzerland and England presented a study in April of this year in response to the extreme heat period in 2018. For the first time, a weather event was attributed entirely to climate change. Usually meteorologists, faced with extreme heat waves or rain periods, conclude that the risk of climate warming has increased, but that it could also be covered by normal weather variations. However, when it comes to a period of exceptional heat, as last year from May to July in no less than 17 countries over a total of 5.2 million square kilometres, where people live or farm, this statistical route is no longer passable. Scientifically that's an interesting milestone, socially it's disturbing. There were deaths in Canada last year. The local electricity supply in California succumbed to this, of course, and there were forest fires in Scandinavia. For example, at such a large scale, countries can no longer help each other with food supply problems. And then my third quoted statement. It's from the Volkskrant of 9 May. There, Oxford economist Thom Wetzer talked about tilting points in the economy and society; tilting points that can contribute to desired developments. A small intervention at the right time can trigger flywheel effects that can lead to major changes. In this way, the right incentives can also accelerate the desired sustainability. He almost sees that happen when buying and installing solar panels. In Science, he and his colleagues describe the role that big investors could play in helping out these kinds of tipping points. As has already been said, Madam President, there are just three statements, but these are not the points of the present legislative proposal at all. Nor is it about the closure of coal-fired power stations, the question of whether wood pellets are devoid of CO-neutrality or the threat of the disappearance of incredible quantities of animals and plants. This proposal is not even about a CO levy or not, although all these developments are, of course, the direct cause of this legislative proposal. This bill is not about what we are going to do, but about how we are going to organise it. It provides a framework for the development of climate policy as the elaboration of the Paris agreements, not the substantive climate policy as such. Madam President. The climate is changing faster than expected and hoped. Or, as our national weatherman Gerrit Hiemstra put it, the climate is not waiting for us. That is a fact, and there is a demonstrable relationship here, although I believe not everyone in this Chamber agrees with that, but our group supports this view between the rise in CO in the air and the rise in temperature. The current cabinet has expressed a great sense of responsibility for the future in this respect, along with a number of opposition parties on its side. The objectives set by the government can also count on broad support in the House of Representatives; objectives aimed at meeting the Paris agreements: limiting global warming, preferably to a maximum of 1.5, signed in December 2015 by a few 200 countries. We can all dream it by now. This own-initiative proposal sets the CO-reduction target of 95% by 2050 and, in addition to this main objective, it sets as targets 49% reduction in 2030 and a 100% CO-neutral electricity production in 2050. At the same time, this law lays down the framework with procedures for the development, impact measurement and accountability of the policies that should lead to the achievement of those objectives. On the climate plan, the climate note and the European mandatory integrated national energy and climate plan, the Advisory Section of the Council of State will advise critically on a regular basis. The government will have to explain to Parliament what it has done with these opinions. I come to my first question, Madam President. Others asked that question in other wordings. But our question is: can both the government and the initiators explain the intended role of Parliament? The members of the VVD Group sympathise with this initiative proposal, and we understand the search for a balance between flexibility on the one hand with regard to the development of innovative new techniques and on the other with regard to stability and predictability in the climate policy. Members of my group also appreciate the wording chosen in which the objectives set out in the legislative proposal are not externally enforceable standards. In addition, they greatly appreciate the initiators' determination to listen to each other and, despite differences in political views, to come up with a joint legislative initiative. Yet there are also critical sounds to listen to in the VVD band. These were already reflected in our contribution to the preliminary report and the further preliminary report. I would like to say a few more words here, with thanks, by the way, for the comprehensive answer to our questions in the first and second rounds. The members of my group continue to be concerned about a framework law with rules and procedures. After all, the principle of this Chamber is often that the government lays down as many substantive standards as possible in formal legislation. You could have thought of intermediate goals here, for example. Can the initiators again explain clearly here in this Chamber why this form of legislation has been chosen? This law is not effective without additional legislation. After all, the implementation of the policy will have to take place through the use of instruments outside the scope of this legislative proposal, such as statutory standards, fiscal measures, agreements and subsidies. The initiators talk several times about checkable policies. How do they see this checkability? Madam President. If the government fails to meet its objectives, does it have the possibility, other than legal, of enforcing stricter standards in companies, public authorities or private individuals? And if so, what is the government thinking? The members of the VVD Group supported the Council of State's opinion on adding a legislative agenda to the climate plan in their previous questions. We are pleased to read in the further reply that the initiators can agree to the inclusion of foreseen legislation to meet climate targets in the climate plan. Of course, this is not a complete and exhaustive legislative agenda for the next ten years. That would also reduce the desired flexibility too much. Madam President. The VVD Group has already asked twice before about this so-called dot on the horizon and the investment security that this dot should offer. In its appreciation of the November 2018 initiative proposal, the Cabinet stresses that the annual climate and energy exploration should not lead to the annual updating of indicative data that sectors have received under a likely future climate agreement, or the substantial adjustment of measures. Because, according to the Cabinet, this is of great importance for the stability of climate policy and investment security for households and businesses. We fully support this attitude, but does the government see any other way of strengthening this necessary sense of security among investors? Madam President. The members of the VVD Group await the response of both the cabinet and the initiators with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I'm looking at the clock. I'm suspending the debate and the meeting for lunch.
