ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u1	We will continue with the 30-member debate on participation in politics by people with a migration background. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK as the first speaker. He is the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr President. That news made me sad a year ago. I'm saddened by all the nasty insinuations, all the distrust. I'm getting saddened by all those political parties that postulate the PVV, that constant double measure. Political parties feel openly that people of dual nationality do not belong in this parliament or in trade-K. That seed was planted in this room a while ago. Research also shows that I quote the scientist now: "Once again, the results showed that Dutch people without a migration background were more negative about Ahmed if he felt that Muslims should be politically active." Minorities find resistance when they express their desire to participate in politics. Mr. Chairman. Not only do Muhammad or Fatima have less chances of getting a job or an internship; if Muhammad and Fatima want to go into politics, they also run into mistrust. For many people it is fine that Muhammad and Fatima participate a bit, work and perhaps take an education, as long as they behave humblely and subordinately. But if Fatima and Mohammed claim their position as Dutchmen and also want to take part in the decision, the reaction of many people is "ho! You are a threat to our position, you have no right to speak of this." Then, of course, it is important to see where this mistrust and discrimination come from. And that has everything to do with the most rightful climate in this house. There, in box K, where Minister Koolmees is currently sitting, is a man, Mark Rutte, who says to people with a migration background: fuck off! A man who says he hates multicultural society and that the Islamic prayer call is terrible jingle. Mark Rutte, our Prime Minister, does not want people with a migration background. And we can see that, because his cabinet is white, muscle white. Political parties in this house too are not sufficient to reflect this country. In those blue seats there is a regentesque elite who, in the distance, does not sufficiently represent the diversity of our country. It's okay to join us, if you give up your individuality, pull out your culture and country of origin and swallow what the party elite tells you to do. That is why we founded DENK in 2015. It is high time that all those Dutch who are the descendants of people who have come to the Netherlands in the past get the piece of the cake they are entitled to and not only participate, but also decide with them. And that in a way that they can just be themselves. We already do that with 3 MPs and 33 council members and area committee members all over the country. Those people let in day in day out that they have the best interests of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u3	Indeed, a fine speech by Mr Kuzu when it comes to integrating migrants into politics. I'm totally in favour of that. But how come you spoke to me as a representative of the people on my migrant background when it was about a motion concerning Armenian genocide committed by Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u4	I have just followed the debate in detail. I really want to clear up a big misunderstanding. Here in the Chamber is done... The man who just sat there, right in the hall, even spoke of "treason" and "snitch." I will follow the words he used during the debate last week; then you will never use mine. Mrs Özütok, you really have to trust me that I was not the one who passed the names of five colleagues to a Turkish newspaper. You also know very well that that sort of thing happened here before DENK was in the Chamber, before Kuzu was in the Chamber. You shouldn't pretend that I'm personally blamed here. It's an open parliament. People see what the votes of MPs are like. I'd like to see the video in which we personally named you by name. We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u5	I give you the opportunity to make one comment, because it also affects you personally. But I do not really want to have that debate here anymore, because we have been talking about it all afternoon. So we're not gonna do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u6	I'll get back to you because it affects me personally. I can't get around that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u7	Yes, that's why I'm giving you the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u8	Not only me, but also other people's representatives have been called upon to do so. And you can make a nice song of this now, but there are images of you with certain statements by people's representatives, while they are doing their stinking best to represent the people of the Netherlands. When it comes to certain subjects, you say they must confess colour. I regret that. And I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u9	Then you've made your point. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u10	Nevertheless, I reject that allegation. What I have done is to say clearly that people need to be transparent about their views. During the debate the question was asked: who does Kuzu mean by "us"? That's what I'm talking about. What does DENK mean by "choose party"? Show me clearly what you stand for in the debate. We're transparent about all kinds of things in this house. We present our views in an honest way. The same applies to such subjects. I will continue to do so, and I will continue to repeat it. This also means that people, all politicians and all candidates must be clear and open about what they stand for. And I also say that the time has passed that there are candidate council members or provincial or Lower House members who keep a very different story on the street than here in the Chamber and who are not honest about their voting behaviour. We must be open and honest and transparent. That's my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u11	That's exactly the point I'm talking about. So on the one hand, they take the measure of what you do here or what you did during the campaign. You say there's an omission in that. And then you take people's representatives with a migration background. You address them in their background. Forty more times and with all sorts of words, you can go around it, but I will not fall for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u12	It is very sensible that Mrs Özütok should not fall for it. I think there are also a lot of people in the country who, after seeing today's debate, do not fall for the story of GroenLinks, who receives compliments from a PVV member. I would also like to say on the other hand: colleagues, look at yourself in the mirror. We are dealing with terrible threats. I can really take thousands of examples, including last week, of terrible death threats and of terrible threats to my Members of Parliament, my colleagues and myself personally. I didn't see any MPs! Get up in those threats we've had. I am sorry about what has happened to you, Mrs Özütok, and it affects me too, because I also have to deal with it every day. But I think it is really hypocritical of all those colleagues who are all sitting here making a number, but they are silent when my colleague here in the Chamber is openly threatened. Hypocrite! Mr. Chairman. I'm going to a lockdown. I would like to ask the Minister the following questions. What is the Minister going to do to remove the mistrust of people with a migration background in politics? Are you prepared, as the researcher also points out, to have additional research on this? Is there perhaps a role in civic education for this? Can we improve on this to address this problem? And how is he going to make the framework conditions for political participation more accessible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was 10 years old when I realized that if you want to improve people's lives, you have to go into politics. At that time I lived in my birthplace Adana in Turkey, in a neighborhood where the basic facilities were not in order, where the electricity went out every once in a while and where the waste water gathered in an open sewer. My neighborhood was decayed, neglected and polluted. Until one day a retired teacher got up. Her name was Saniye. She started a petition to fix the sewer. I went by the houses to get a thumbprint or a signature. Saniye brought the list of statements of support to the municipality. Wonder above wonder, the sewer was soon restored. Later, when she was elected a district alderman, there were further improvements in our neighborhood. Then I knew: this is what I wanted; I wanted to be there, in that place, where you can make a difference. Mr. Chairman. Politics should be a representative reflection of society. In order to achieve this, people must be able to recognise themselves in politicians, young people with a migration background must realise that they too can and can participate, and people who are disadvantaged must feel that they are being heard. I found a figurehead in Saniye. She taught me the value of activism and political participation. That was the first step in my political formation. I wonder how the government can contribute to this bildung. Is a profession such as social studies or citizenship in education still sufficient at this time? That is why I ask the Minister whether the government is pursuing policies to highlight the importance of political participation among young people, specifically with a migration background. Does the Minister share my indignation that migrants who have been legally resident in the Netherlands for at least five years should not vote for the Lower House elections? My group believes that you cannot start with political participation early enough. Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is an investigation. I find the outcome very difficult. This shows that politicians with a migrant background are less familiar when they stand up for the political interests of their own minority group. I am a people's representative with a migration background who wants to stand up for all the Dutch, not just the Turkish-Dutch minority. I wonder why it is self-evident that a politician from the business community should defend the interests of VNO-NCW, but it is unacceptable to many when an Islamic politician enters the political arena from his or her beliefs. Mr President, I will conclude. The members of the House of Representatives have an exemplary role, also for those with a migration background. But when I look around in the Chamber, I see that some are more constructive than others. For example, some systematically exclude Dutch people with a certain religion and others repeatedly stress the ethnic origin of politicians with a migration background, while in this parliament they are popular representatives of all Dutch people. I hope we can remember that we all have this example, so that anyone who wants to improve people's lives is welcome in the city council, the province and parliament: white, yellow or black, religious or agnostic. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr. Chairman. This evening I am speaking on behalf of the Labour Party and, of course, on my own behalf. That's a second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u17	It's Valentine's Day. Something's blooming on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u18	Yes, Valentine's Day, the day of the red color. Anyway, I'll start. Mr. Chairman. Last week it was five years since Els Breast was murdered. Els Borst was the first woman ever to run a ministerial council in the Netherlands. She said about politics: it's too important to leave it to men. And so it is. People's representatives are there for everyone. Everyone must have a chance to find a place in the city council, the States or the Chambers of Parliament, because politics is just as important to leave to people whose parents and grandparents are all born in the Netherlands. Because the Netherlands is an immigration country and shutting anyone out is non-Dutch. You may find this inclusive rhetoric in the style of Mr Hindriks' dissertation, which is the subject of this debate. I am proud to come out of the city which, with Ahmed Aboutaleb's aldermanship, produced the first mayor with a Moroccan background of a large European city. I was proud to present the second Amsterdam alderman of Moroccan origin with Abdeluheb Choho in 2014. His story also inspires people: because of your orientation, your family and background have to leave behind to be yourself and become alderman. You can do that in this country. And so there are countless stories of people who are also present here in the room, who, despite these obstacles, have found their way to the top. We must carry that pride, because it can inspire young people to believe that they also have that chance to get there. Political parties have to work every day to be there for everyone. When I look around, I think that every group in Parliament can still gain from diversity, especially that of DENK. I would like to express the hope that we will avoid any division of Dutch politics along ethnic lines. Because this country has been so much better than that for 400 years. If my ancestors hadn't integrated between the Dutch, I'd probably be in a neighborhood called Little France right now. Hindriks simply notes in his dissertation that migrants live in separate neighbourhoods in Europe. Let us suppose that this is already far less the case in the Netherlands than in France and Belgium. And let's work on living in a country where we meet and everyone knows that politics is there for them and for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. We live in a beautiful country. Within our democratic rule of law, you can do the most beautiful things for the Netherlands. As well as becoming politically active. As representatives of the people, we are all here, if it is right, for the Netherlands and all its inhabitants. I meet fantastic council members weekly, aldermen but also fellow room members with and without migration background. Let me also say: with and without migration background, a threat to politicians is never acceptable. I say this in the direction of Mr Kuzu. My group chairman, Mr Klaas Dijkhoff, has also expressed this immediately in several cases. So that's what I wanted to say. I see that triggers an interruption immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u21	Yeah, that's right. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u22	It's really nice that it happens. I also very much appreciate the fact that all colleagues, all 150, say that this is not possible when there are threats. But what I do hate is that when five of our colleagues are threatened, Mr. Dijkhoff needs to record a video of "Kuzu, what are you doing?', With which he himself has been the cause of threats in my direction. And that's hypocritical. That is why you have a kilo of butter on your head when you take a stand against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u23	Don't do that, Mr. Kuzu!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u24	This is the hard truth, Mr. Chairman. And I'm gonna keep mentioning that hard truth right here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u25	In my view, Mr Dijkhoff said in the same video that threat to anyone is never acceptable. But he did ask what you're doing when you take care of MPs in their background and appeal to their loyalty, instead of allowing them to vote freely in the Netherlands, and especially if you're going to say that on Turkish television. I think it is right for Klaas Dijkhoff to say so, and I fully support it. Mr. Chairman. With this look that there are fantastic council members, aldermen and fellow chamber members, from whatever background, I have looked at the dissertation that is on the agenda today. I'm noticing a few things. Firstly, there are a number of respondents with a inferior view of people with a different ethnic background. Let me say straight away: that is unacceptable. Wherever you're from, everyone has to be able to participate. And if you do, we will accept you without restraint in our midst. It is also very good that the cabinet wants to make more work of citizenship in education and that it wants to eliminate discrimination in all possible ways. That's what the VVD wants. Secondly, however, the research actually shows that most of the people questioned, both ethnic and indigenous, do not have a problem with a different ethnic background, but are, in fact, afraid of losing political influence for themselves. A third conclusion is that people turn out to be more critical of newcomers in politics if they feel that they are not representing the general interest but merely standing up for their so-called own group. I would like to endorse Minister Koolmees' response that it is imaginable that people can have difficulty in trusting political representatives, regardless of their background, when they cannot understand what those representatives have in common with society and what importance they stand for. In order to eliminate mistrust, we must not only invest in citizenship, but also focus on possible interests in Dutch politics other than the Dutch general interest. The VVD therefore welcomes legislation for greater transparency regarding the foreign funding of political parties, but that is not yet the case. I have previously asked questions to the Minister about the fact that 70 Dutch young people have been prepared by UETD to enter Dutch politics. I asked the cabinet to actively bring this undesirable phenomenon to the attention of Dutch political parties so that they could arm themselves against it. Can the Minister say anything about his talks with UETD and with political parties about this phenomenon? Because by staying focused on possible foreign influence in Dutch politics, we can ensure that all politicians in the Netherlands, regardless of their background, can be trusted by everyone, namely that they have the Dutch interest in them every day and nothing else. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mrs Becker. This was the first term of office. The Minister would like to suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u27	We're moving on. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte mentioned the brilliant words of Mrs Els Borst, who was murdered five years ago last week: politics is too important to leave to men alone. I immediately saw Mrs Bente Becker nodding strongly that she was very much in agreement with that. I very much agree with that, especially as the famous excuse guus of the D66s in the cabinet, as the only 41-year-old man with glasses. But it's an important subject. Mr Hindriks's dissertation indicates that minorities, or more precisely: Muslims, encounter resistance and controversy when they demonstrate their will to participate in politics. Let us put it first: it is the responsibility of society and the cabinet that everyone participates and can continue to participate in our Dutch society. Hindriks points, among other things, to the responsibility of teachers, policy makers and politicians. They should play a more prominent role in creating an inclusive national rhetoric. The cabinet also stands for that inclusive policy. Politics belongs to all of us and affects all of us. It is important that political and political functions are accessible to all Dutch people, regardless of their background. They must be able to express their views within the limits of the democratic rule of law. People in the Netherlands are free to become politically active and politically active. People are free to unite politically, regardless of their background. That is a great democratic good. Fortunately, our democratic process is so structured that voters have the freedom to choose who they want. Fortunately, our democratic system is also so structured that it is relatively easy and easy to set up a political party and to participate in the elections, I also say to Mr Kuzu. For these constitutional freedoms and achievements, the cabinet stands and in our democracy it is up to voters to decide who they vote for and to political parties to decide who they put on the list of candidates. The Home Secretary was supposed to be here today, but she's a little fluy. That is why I am including her text in the reply. The Minister for the Interior sees it as her responsibility to provide the framework conditions that make political participation as accessible and accessible as possible. For example, it is important that there are no structural barriers for people to participate in politics. This applies to people with or without migration background, young or old, woman or man, highly or practical trained, with or without functional limitation. People need to be able to participate. A mix of people in politics and governance strengthens engagement and recognition and helps to identify problems, and to come up with solutions that may otherwise be overlooked. And it's not gonna happen by itself. An active, inviting approach from government and politics helps. It helps to actively seek out, invite people who do not usually participate in politics by themselves, and give them the opportunity to get to know politics easily or to be oriented towards a function as a political minister. I very much agree with Mr Paternotte: role models are very helpful. In concrete terms, the Minister for the Interior therefore supports the following measures. In 2019 the Political Active course was offered. Municipalities can thus introduce their residents to municipal politics in an easily accessible way and encourage them to become politically active, for example as a council member. Since 2015 more than 200 municipalities have used this and research has shown that a large part of the students become truly politically active after participation. In 2019, municipalities will be resupported to offer the Political Active Course. Particular attention is paid to diversity and to people with a migration background. The Minister of the Interior also offers an orientation programme for side-intromers for the mayor's office in 2019. There is an eye for the influx of people without a traditional political-administrative career as well as for a better reflection on gender, training or migration background. On the basis of the evaluation of the first five editions of this programme, greater account will be taken of the diversity of participants. Despite this, she welcomed Erica van Springe, the new, young and first female mayor of Dalfsen. She followed one of the first editions of the programme. The Minister for the Interior is also investigating structural barriers for people with disabilities to become politically active. The closing meeting will take place in May 2019. She seeks cooperation with relevant network organisations in the Netherlands in the appointment procedure of the King's Commissioners. For example, in Noord-Holland and Gelderland, the Minister of the Interior has actively approached women's organisations and actively brought the job vacancies to the attention of women's organisations. That helps, because then you also see that there are more women applying for such a position. On ongoing and planned projects, the Minister of the Interior will closely monitor whether it really works to strengthen diversity and inclusiveness in our democracy. Yesterday afternoon, together with the Secretary of State, Tamara van Ark, I had a session on diversity and inclusiveness in business, where there are also a few front-runners, a few companies that really have it in their vision and their policy strategy to increase diversity and promote inclusion. Those were inspiring conversations, too. Finally, the Minister of the Interior started in 2019 the State of the Board and the monitor political ministers. It gathers up-to-date information. These are factors such as gender, age and training, as well as the migration background of political ministers. In the State of the Board, figures regarding the migration background of political ministers could not be taken into account this year in connection with changes in data collection and enhanced privacy arrangements. That is why we are now asking for this information for a first edition of the monitor political ministers. It will be available in mid-2019, so that we also have the facts in a row. A general remark. Not all ideals and views in our society can count on equal enthusiasm among the electorate. This is, of course, also an inherent part of the democratic process in our rule of law. Differences in views are a component of any society. These differences may exist and certainly do not pose any obvious problems. If that is the case, if controversy arises from negative prejudices and leads to tensions that can hinder people to participate fully, then there is also a real challenge for the cabinet. There is no room for discrimination and there is no room for each other to rule out. This applies to the further integration into the labour market for which I am responsible, and so does politics. If people don't meet and know each other well, then the image may arise that we differ a lot from each other, from which prejudice, fear and exclusion can follow. So, in addition to discrimination and indeed the clarification of the citizenship mission in education, several speakers referred to it, and I am committed to proportionate opportunities in the labour market. Unfortunately, this is still necessary if you also see the examples of discrimination in the labour market. Finally. I appreciate the political participation of Dutch people with and without migration background, because together we stand for that strong Dutch society. Mrs Becker had asked a specific question about UETD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u29	Is that the last question you'll answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u30	The last question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u31	Then I suggest you answer that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u32	When I prepared the subject of the previous debate, it appeared that the UETD is now called Union for International Democrats. The name has been changed in the meantime. There has indeed been a conversation with that organization. He has indicated that there are formally no ties with President Erdogan's AK party. The Board also stated that it did not receive any subsidies from the Netherlands or abroad last year. In general, however, this organisation is considered to be a European organisation associated with President Erdogan's AK party. The activities of this organisation show that the Turkish politicians of the AK party also participate in meetings here in the Netherlands. There's been a conversation about that, including with the organization. This was about the activities, the funding and the alleged relationship with the AK party in Turkey. The purpose of these talks is to apply and explain the policy. In these talks, for example, it has been pointed out that the Dutch government considers it important that Dutch foundations or associations do not act as a political instrument of other countries. So I can tell Mrs Becker that that conversation has taken place and that the message has been sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u33	The dissertation was performed in the period 2010-2014, so let's be clear: it's not just about my party. People with a migration background, whether they come out for GroenLinks and Özütok, or for the VVD and Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, it doesn't matter: people with a migration background experience resistance and that doesn't have to do with their political views, it has to do with their background. I would like to ask the Minister, without having to look at his papers, but to the man: where do you think that resistance comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u34	Well, Mr. Chairman, that resistance is there. About Mr. Hendriks' dissertation... I'm not a scientist. I'm not gonna make all kinds of judgments about the methodology. That is simply a scientific discussion; that discourse must be conducted. When it comes to the labour market, which I know a little bit more about, we see that there is still discrimination, prejudice that lives among people. For example, young people, Turkish-Dutch young people and Moroccan-Dutch young people still find it difficult to get an internship on the Dutch labour market. We also still see that unemployment is relatively high, despite the fact that a lot of employers are jumping at people. In an Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, Secretary of State Van Ark has taken various initiatives, including in connection with the Radar broadcast on temporary employment agencies where employers explicitly asked for candidates without a non-Western background. Where that resistance comes from, I can have all kinds of philosophical considerations about it, but that doesn't seem appropriate at the moment. I think it is much more important that as a cabinet we do our best, in policy, to remove that resistance, to give opportunities, to remove barriers and to promote participation. That is our challenge, not only for us as a cabinet, but also as a Lower House and as a society. I think that is what energy should be aimed at instead of constantly taking the measure of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u35	Yes, but then it becomes a dead sparrow very easily, because if you don't have an analysis of where that resistance comes from or where it might come from, then you can't take any steps to make sure that you remove that resistance. You must have an analysis of where it came from. I'll give the minister a move. What does he think, for example, that in the last twenty years, or twelve, thirteen, fourteen years, Muslims were being bashed here in the Chamber? That in the past two or three years there has been a tendency to constantly distrust people with a migration background, Turkish Dutch, on the basis of, for example, the debate we have just had? Then over and over and over again... I warned him at the beginning of this period: do not fall back on research based on mistrust. Put your trust in me for once! We see so many things going well in this country: better language management, better education...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u36	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u37	The question is: is he going to come up with a thorough analysis of where that resistance comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u38	I do not understand Mr Kuzu's question. For example, last week, or two weeks ago, I held the Jan Brouwer lecture, in which I discussed in detail all the positive things that are happening in the Netherlands when it comes to participation in the education of people with a migration background, about opportunities in the labour market and about the development of integration in Dutch society and about norms and values. So I have talked about all kinds of very positive developments. There were even two professors there, also one of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, who indicated that Dutch society is diverse, remains diverse and may even become more diverse in the coming years, not only because of migration but also because of the international labour market. Look at cities like Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague. You are also Rotterdammer, like me, and you see it in practice. So I do not recognize Mr Kuzu's statement that the investigation is based on mistrust, absolutely not. I see a lot of very good examples in practice. Unfortunately, I also see problems in practice, which I have just spoken about. I mention the signs of labour market discrimination. That is what we do at the same time in our policies. This is done by several people: the Minister of the Interior, me from the labour market, Secretary of State Van Ark on discrimination. So I don't recognize that "research based on mistrust." Mr Kuzu says a second thing. There is intense political debate in this house, and that is good. That's good! Mr Kuzu also knows how to distribute. Divorce means you have to be able to collect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u39	I can do that very well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u40	You can do that very well, and that is part of a democracy. I am glad that the debate can be held in this House in this way, so that the tensions that exist in this society can also find their place in this Chamber. So I don't think you should be so gloomy, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u41	In general I'm also an optimistic person, but I get as sad and sad as I see that themes are raised by, for example, my neighbor standing next to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u42	She's not a neighbor, she's a colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u43	Colleague neighbor. She's standing next to me, neighbor. May I make my point, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u44	You were busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u45	Yeah, I was busy until I was interrupted. So it's about trusting people and giving them confidence. I see now two successive Cabinets which, at the moment when the rule of law does not allow them to take action, to conduct investigations to appease the Chamber, and thereby try to take away the whole story. That's what you've been doing with those weekend schools these past few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u46	We just had that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u47	I still need to respond, Mr. Chairman. We have just had a debate on this point for four hours. I very much emphasised in my introduction that we stand for our democratic rule of law, for our freedoms, for our free society. That also means that I do share the concerns of the Chamber when it comes to unwanted foreign interference. At the weekend schools there is definitely a link here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u48	I'm going to stop you too, because this has been discussed extensively. We're not gonna repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u49	Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm gonna be totally on fire anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u50	Mr Kuzu just asked for an analysis of where the resistance came from. We have a dissertation on the agenda today that I believe is the subject of that analysis. A large part of that analysis says that people get suspicious especially when they feel that someone does not stand up for the general Dutch interest, but maybe they represent their own interest or only the own interest of their own group. That is why I asked the Minister about UETD, who really trained Dutch young people; whether or not he was associated with the AK party, but at least worried. The Minister had a conversation with the UETD, as he just said. But is it also an idea to consult with Minister Ollongren to inform Dutch political parties about this phenomenon? Because now there are people on the Dutch lists and there are people active in politics who may be there for a different interest than the general Dutch interest. That might be worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u51	The first was the question of whether I should like to record it with Mr Ollongren. I'd certainly like to do that. When it comes to prejudice, to the debate on double nationalities and double loyalties, as Mr Kuzu said, I think it is a short turn, to put it this way. We have acknowledged the issue of UETD. We sent a letter about that. I agree with Mrs Bente Becker. I would like to record it with Mrs Ollongren, but let us also look positively and have confidence. Mrs Becker agrees with me. Well, then we'll be able to close up harmoniously, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr. Chairman. Since Mrs Becker indicated that she would share the conclusions of the investigation and that there is one important conclusion that she did not mention, I expect the VVD to support this motion. There's no other way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the dissertation "The struggle for power: Attitudes to the political participation of ethnic minorities" concludes that minorities experience resistance and controversy when they demonstrate their desire to participate in politics;]] [[Considers that political participation and representative democracy are of enormous importance for the emancipation of groups and cohesion in society;]] [[noting that the same dissertation concludes that more research is needed, because policy makers need to understand where resistance comes from, how the consequences can be countered and how this resistance can be prevented;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a study on the causes of resistance to the political participation of minorities and, on this basis, to come forward with proposals to prevent such resistance and mitigate the consequences of this resistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his reply. I have a motion on the right to vote for migrants with a residence permit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that migrants legally residing in the Netherlands for at least five years have the right to vote in municipal elections and in elections to the island councils of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba;]] [[noting that migrants legally resident in the Netherlands have the right to vote for the general administration of the waterboards;]] [[noting that migrants with a valid residence permit do not have this right to vote in the elections to Provincial States and in the elections to the Lower House;]] [[Whereas political participation promotes integration;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the right of migrants to vote for the elections of Provincial States and for the elections of the House of Representatives can contribute to the political participation of people with a migration background, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mrs Özütok asks the government to investigate something, but I think it is quite clear. Dutch nationality is a requirement for membership of this Chamber and also for the right to vote. If you want to amend that, you can undoubtedly submit an initiative law, but I do not think there is much research to be done. Do you want to change the law? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u56	An investigation could lead to a legal change, but I'd like to start with an investigation first. Hence the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u57	Then can you outline exactly what you want the government to investigate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u58	That's in my motion. It's about to be copied. So if you'll just wait a minute, you can read it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u59	I listened to what you said. You said that you want people who do not have Dutch nationality to be able to vote for the Second and First Chambers and probably be able to stand for election. They can't, because they don't have Dutch nationality. For this, the law must be amended. Then the investigation is done, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u60	I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u61	You may repeat it, more Fathernotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u62	Before we build a paper shop with an investigation in which the government has to look at something very simple... If you want what you want, the law needs to be changed. Then nationality must no longer be a requirement for the right to vote in the Second and First Chambers. Then that's what you want. My question is whether you want to skip the investigation and, if so, whether you are going to come up with an initiative law. Frankly, I don't understand what the government is going to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u63	People with a residence permit can vote for municipal elections after five years, and thus also contribute to political participation in our society. I ask the government to investigate whether we can change the law in such a way that these people can also vote in the Lower House elections. Nothing more and nothing less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u65	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I had indeed forgotten in the first period to return to Mrs Özütok's question on voting rights. I shall come back to that now when I go into the motion. In the first motion, in part No. Mr Kuzu asked the government to carry out a study on the causes of resistance to the political participation of minorities and to come forward with proposals on this basis. What I didn't have sharp in the first term, but through contact with my officials, is that in 2016 we sent an investigation into the trigger factors of Muslim discrimination to the Chamber. It contains an analysis of the causes of this. That is, of course, also part of the policy. I have just explained in detail what policy has been put in place to take this away. At the same time, Mr Hindriks' research, which we are talking about today, is, of course, also an example of such research. What is more important is that we keep doing these actions. I've just discussed it extensively. That's why I don't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u67	Mr. Chairman. I know that 2017 study on trigger factors of Muslim discrimination. This is something specific, it is about the political participation of people with a migration background. There are also people with a migration background who are not Muslims; so does the Minister for Social Affairs. What is at issue here is that the researcher himself also indicates that this follow-up study needs and needs further research. It's just sad to see that the minister responsible for integration doesn't want to pick up that glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u68	In scientific research, it is very often concluded that more scientific research is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u69	You can turn off scientific research, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u70	Mr. Chairman. We have done a lot of research, especially on discrimination in general, but also on Muslim discrimination in particular and on trigger factors. There are many pathways on political participation and political activation, inclusiveness and diversity. I just mentioned it in my first term. I therefore do not think that such an investigation is necessary and I would advise against the motion. The second motion is from Mrs Özütok. We share Mrs Özütok's objective of greater political participation. I am afraid, however, that Mr Paternotte is right in his interruption. It's actually very digital. At the moment, the Dutch Federation is a condition to participate in the Lower House elections and the Provincial State elections. That is regulated in the Kieswet, based on the idea that you must have Dutch nationality in order to vote for the Lower House and to sit in it. I therefore agree with Mrs Özütok on the objective. To this end, we are also taking a lot of action. I just read them all. In particular, the Minister for the Interior is carrying out these actions in the framework of political participation. I must advise against this motion, but if the lady wishes to throw this point into the political arena, she is free to initiate an initiative law and submit it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u72	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people who have followed this debate in one way or another. Oh, Mrs. Özütok? You were almost too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u73	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I did have to think about it. We agree that something needs to be done, but we disagree on how we can encourage increased participation. It seems to me the best thing for me to keep my motion and think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u74	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (29614, No. 110). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-11.u75	We're going to vote on one motion on Tuesday. Thanks again.
