ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 18 and 19. Welcome to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and to the Secretary of State for Finance. Thank you for joining us. We have two speakers in favour of this short VSO, on which we are going to vote, at least on the motions before us. The first is Mr Omtzigt of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Like everyone else, he has two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. More than 400 million euros will be paid back this autumn on child-related budgets. That should have been paid out in the last five years. In those five years, a lot could have happened. We had already asked these questions at the beginning of the recess and only answered last Thursday, while the payout started Monday. That is why we want to know for sure a number of things soon. Do divorced parents both get a message? Don't you pay inheritance tax when one of the parents dies? Under normal circumstances, the other parent would have had it. And are we not going to pay back to parents who have been put out of parental control and convicted of a crime against the child, for whom they are now receiving child benefit? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the child-related budget should be carefully paid back;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that:]] [[in the event of a divorce, the parent who does not receive a post-payment shall also be informed of the post-payment;]] [[there is no inheritance tax due on the post-payment when one of the two parents has passed away;]] [[there is no post-payment in cases where the parent has been convicted of a crime against the child or has been expelled from parental power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. More than 20 million euros are also paid abroad. Now, in Europe, you are entitled to one child scheme. In Germany, Belgium and Poland, these are the three countries where the most payments are made...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Only the answers show that this is not going to be properly checked. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government also intends to make post payments abroad;]] [[noting that there is an anti-cumulative provision with other child schemes in EU legislation, so that you do not receive a child scheme twice, not once, but once within the EU;]] [[calls on the Government not to re-payment until all the income data of parents, income from child schemes abroad and the actual residence and workshops of parents and children are known, with due regard for subsequent payments;]] [[calls on the Government to report on the implementation of this motion in three months' time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. It may be very quiet in this Chamber now, but I know what happens if thousands of euros of late payments are made at the same time abroad, or if taxes are levied at once on post payments in situations where someone has died. Then this room is too small. So, please, let's sort this out in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Of course, after-payment of the child-related budget that people have wrongly not received must be done properly. I think that Mr Omtzigt's motions contribute to that. But when paying out the child-related budget, something you need, the following happens very often. If the Tax Office considers that the parent has made a mistake or may have cheated in another area, for example in the case of childcare payments, it will be automatically withheld. That surprised me a bit. For the summer, it has been established that the Tax Office has unjustly stopped childcare payments and has faced parents with high debts. This is still the subject of parental procedures at the IRS. But these parents are also confronted with the suspension of the child-related budget, in order to pay off those debts. So these parents have a problem. They get that money, which is meant for their children, not because the Tax Administration thinks they're wrong, but they also don't get access to a fair understanding of why they have that debt or not. Now I started a hotline for that. The Secretary of State for Finance received the black book on 28 August. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs also received that black book from my colleague, Mr Kwint. One of the recommendations I make in this regard is that I should now like to put it to the Chamber in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the Tax Administration has, on improper grounds, stopped and recovered parental childcare allowances in the CAF-11 case and cannot be ruled out that this has been done for many more parents on improper grounds;]] [[noting that the Tax Office charges the child-related budget allocated to parents with an alleged child-care supplement debt to that debt;]] [[considers that parents are not given child-related budget for nothing, i.e. compensation for costs deemed necessary, and that they are in financial need when the child-related budget is settled;]] [[calls on the Government not to offset the allocated child-related budget with payment debts, whether or not they are justified,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input, both here during the VSO and during the previous written consultations. I would also like to thank them for the questions put to the House. I would like to stress once again that the cabinet considers it important that parents receive the child-related budget they are entitled to. Unfortunately, that has not gone well in the past. We are very much in the position of resolving this in a good and manageable way. It must also be done in a way that ensures that parents have their money at their disposal as soon as possible. In this context, I would like to express an opinion on the motions that have been tabled. The motion in part No. 20 asks whether, in a number of cases, it can be ensured that no post-payment is made. I take this motion a little as the question: can we make a difference between the right of people to a post-payment and the question whether they deserve it? There are indeed questions about that. Do you deserve this if you're thrown out of parental control or if you've mistreated your child? And what about certain situations that can occur in a lifetime, which means that you are asked questions afterwards? I'm talking, for example, about the death of a parent. I fully understand the arguments raised in this motion. However, the child-related budget is paid out on the basis of a number of very clear criteria. One is that a child should belong to the household. For example, if a child is expelled from parental control and you have to assess afterwards whether or not that would result in a post-payment, you are undermining the fact that this benefit is intended to cover the costs incurred for a child. Nor can you apply a disadvantage with retroactive effect. This means that I cannot give this motion judgment in Chamber and must therefore be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	There's three dicta in there. I also expect something about the other dictata. If two parents are divorced, one parent can receive €10,000 after payment, while the other parent is not even informed. That could also be the parent who has custody at that time and therefore takes full care of the children. Isn't that okay? And then the first point. I am not saying that payments should not be made, but if one of the parents has been convicted of a crime against the child, I think it would be wise in that case to make the post-payment to the parent who has not been convicted. Imagine if a father, sorry to say that, was convicted of a crime against his daughter. Should that father get a post-payment, while the mother who takes care of the child at the time doesn't know this and doesn't get a post-payment? And that is social security legislation! I'm asking for something perfectly normal here. You do not see what happens through this denial with the confidence of the Dutch citizen in society, if you solve it in the event that I outline, by paying it out to that father.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think the examples given by Mr Omtzigt are very striking. They do defy the sense of justice. That is why I tried to indicate by the concession "I understand this" that we can not only ask if people are entitled to it, but also whether people deserve it. Now it is true that the law on the child-related budget, which we generally find to be very fine, excels in simplicity. There are very few, but clear criteria for when you are entitled to compensation. For example, you must receive a supplement, such as child benefit, and the child must belong to your household. This means that the child-related budget is one of the most striking concessions there are. Now that we are engaged in a recovery operation that is due to a past error, this also means that we have few criteria to deviate from. For example, we should amend the law to make an exception in the case of inheritance taxes, but this cannot be done retroactively. Also, there are no account details of the other parent in a divorce. So how much I sympathise with this means that we should delay or delay the whole operation for all those who are entitled to receive money, in the sense of earning, because of the group of people we cannot see now and therefore cannot prevent it under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Now it's about the first argument, when parents are divorced. I'm not asking for it to be paid into both accounts. I am not even asking whether there will be a decision that the parent can object to. All I ask in the motion is that the other parent gets an information letter. In cases of a conflicting divorce in which one of the parents receives a post-payment, it still falls into the estate and must be divided between both parents. If the other parent isn't informed, nothing will happen. That data is there, because we just have a Basic Registration Persons. That doesn't include the bank account number, but the address details, marriage records and cohabitation data are. So you can get them directly from the basic administration. I ask that the other parent be informed only. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	I have to make a difference here between desirability and feasibility. The Tax Office does not have this current information if people are no longer a supplement partner. As desirable as it would be, we can have discussions on how we would do this in the future. By the nature of the operation, I have to adhere retroactively to the legal provisions created for this target group. Those provisions require a number of outcomes. Perhaps we do not think that is desirable, but unfortunately, because of its feasibility, it cannot be done justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	The tax authorities have to keep records for up to 12 years. So the Tax Office has very good control over who was a supplement partner four years ago. Otherwise, no post-tax can be imposed. If the Tax Office knows who my supplement partner was four years ago, he has the bsn number of that supplement partner and he can get the address of that person from the Basic Registration Persons. The tax authorities therefore have that information at their disposal. This is yet another time that the question is not answered correctly. I find that rather disappointing from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	It is also about the actuality of the data. On that basis, I cannot do this, no matter how much I sympathize with the question of whether people deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. President, just for a moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, no, no, because this would be your fourth time. We're really going to see Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'm listening to the Secretary of State with a little surprise. When allocating the child-related budget you have to deal with the criteria of here and now, but we have a special situation, namely a post-payment. Then it seems to me that you can indeed broaden those criteria and see if there is, at the moment, in the here and now, the question of authority over a child.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	I understand that thought. I asked those questions myself. But the moment you're dealing with a retroactive recovery operation, you have to act on the basis of the law that was in force at the time. This requires a legal amendment. We can't do that with retroactive effect. You could do something like this forward, but the simplicity of the child-related budget, which makes it very easy to provide, means that we are dealing with retroactively a number of situations that you may indeed wonder if they are justified and deserved. But by the way the law is and by the simplicity, I can only pass this benefit on the basis of the law that was then in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	I don't think that reasoning is right. You can say: when we pay back, we use the regime of the law completely. Apparently, that's what happened. But you can make exceptions. I find Mr Omtzigt's example quite painful. We can't take it back when a parent in the year he was given child-related budget has been evicted from parental power, for whatever reason. But we can see that that parent doesn't have that parental power anymore. Then there are other educators at the moment. It would be much better if they were covered by this scheme. You could have done that with retroactive effect. May I ask why this kind of situation has not been taken into account in the design?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	The answer to this question, as well as to Mrs Leijten's introduction, is that this is a compensation for the child's costs. This means that these costs have been incurred in the past, regardless of how these parents treated their child, because once again, I feel very strongly about that. But the child-related budget is paid out in this way because it compensates for the child's costs. The most important criterion is therefore that the child belongs to the household.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	Very good. The motion in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	I come to the second motion, in part No. 21. I very much agree with the content. A payout abroad is checked and also goes only to a validated bank account; otherwise there will be no payment. I would like to make one counter-proposal, which is not on the content, but on the term that is attached to it. For the time being, we are not going to make payments abroad because there is still a lot of validation to be done. So a period of three months would be too short, simply because we haven't gotten there yet. If the Chamber were prepared to make it six months, I could give this motion a Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	I call the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to the third motion, in part No. 22. Let me first say that the motion, the reason and the underlying thoughts that go with it, naturally appear to me to be familiar with the many discussions we have had earlier on the CAF-11 case. In that case, the Court is aware of that, too, and indeed we have decided, on the basis of a temporary discretionary power, to stop these nettings. At the same time, this set-off has not yet been legally settled. When I think a little further about the underlying ideas, Mrs Leijten and Mr Kwint ask whether you should not be able to do so in future. That's kind of an intriguing question. We have arranged this differently in the case of surcharges than in the case of blue. We have also had a discussion on this before. It is also a part that we have raised in a question to the Donner Committee, to look at how to deal with it in general. So we are in the process of doing so, and we await his advice. We hope to get that timely, also IBO Fees will probably say something about this kind of thing. I would therefore like to go a long way along and at the same time ask Mrs Leijten to hold on to the motion for a resolution. We have a debate on 31 October, so we have the opinions if it is right. Then I hope to be able to tell you a little bit more about how we can deal with this CAF-11 case separately. My request would therefore be to hold on to the motion for a resolution so that we can discuss it a little further. But the line behind it, the line of thought in beautiful Dutch, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	I see an opening there that the Secretary of State says that you shouldn't actually offset the fees that are needed here and now with a payment debt, whether or not it is justified, and that he is looking for room. I want to leave that space, and I'm going to hold the motion. I hope that we will be able to settle this on 31 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion (35010, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	And then we'll hear about that line of Thougth, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	So much for this debate. Thank you to both Secretary of State for their presence. We are going to vote on the two motions at the beginning of the afternoon sitting. I'll suspend for a few minutes.
