ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-eerstekamer-3.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Fransje Roscam Abbing-Bos, who died on 25 October last at the age of 86. She was a member of the First Chamber of the States-General for the VVD for eight years, from 13 June 1995 to 10 June 2003. Francina Maria Roscam Abbing-Bos was born on 30 December 1932 in Holten. Her father, Piet Bos, was in 1938 the founder of the Diorama Natural Museum, which still exists under the name Nature Museum Holterberg. After the gymnasium alpha, Fransje Bos became executive secretary and then stewardess at the KLM. Between 1956 and 1970, her resume mentions "no occupation" because she stopped working after her marriage, as was usual in those years. In 1970, Fransje Roscam Abbing became active for the VVD. For example, she was chairman of the Holten VVD department for four years and from 1974 to 1978 she was a member of the Holten City Council. At the same time, she was secretary of the VVD-Kamercentrale Zwolle. In 1991 Fransje Roscam Abbing became a member of the party's central board. She was also a member of the curatorium of the scientific bureau of the VVD, the Telder Foundation, and a member of the board of Mr. Annelien Kappeyne of the Coppello Foundation, who aims to contribute to the sustainable development and social cohesion of Dutch pluralistic society. In 1995, Fransje Roscam Abbing became a member of the First Chamber of the States General. In this house, she was mainly concerned with foreign affairs, Antillean affairs, development cooperation and education. On 20 February 1996, she held her maiden speech in the examination of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which she called for greater relevance in the approach to development cooperation. I quote: "More attention to the question of how development cooperation and economic cooperation can strengthen each other. There must be ejection, fusion of policy areas. This will avoid duplication of policies." Her most difficult political choice was made by Mrs Roscam Abbing in 2001 on another subject, namely a bill on the municipal reclassification of The Hague. It concerned the surrender of territory by certain municipalities in favour of The Hague. Furthermore, some municipalities in the Hague region were merged. Her husband was mayor of Rijswijk, one of the relevant municipalities until February 2000. Both opposed the annexation of part of the Rijswijk territory. Eventually, Mrs. Roscam Abbing voted in the First Chamber for political reasons.The VVD was a coalition party in favour of the bill. She later regretted her support. In 2003, Fransje Roscam Abbing-Bos was appointed member of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In addition to her work in politics, she was a member of the University Council of the University of Groningen and of the University of Leiden, of which two years chair of the group of non-university members. She was also a member of the board of the Association for Public Education in Holten, chairman of the Vlachtwedde Women's Council and member of the board of delegates of housing association Stichting Boniface in Rijswijk. Fransje Roscam Abbing-Bos was known as a charming woman with strong communication skills, both in business and in personal contact. She did her work in the First Chamber with heart and soul, so her daughter let me know. May our respect for her person and her merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you.
