ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue the debate on vaccination in the Netherlands. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Using vaccinations, we protect society from serious infectious diseases. I am pleased that the Chamber is so unanimous in its support for this aim. There is very broad support for this in the Chamber, and that is good; we should also cherish it. Epidemics of infectious diseases such as polio, measles and rubella, which occurred regularly and on a large scale not so long ago, can be prevented thanks to the National vaccination programme. That's a big good. It is important for the Chamber to have a debate on this today; we do not do that often, but it is good to discuss it. Since its introduction in 1957, the National vaccination programme has saved thousands of lives and prevented a great deal of disease. Vaccinating is one of the most important preventive measures at our disposal. In my view, Mr Hijink also mentioned clean drinking water as another very large preventive measure. One of the other spokesmen said the same thing; perhaps it was Mr Renkema, I do not know. Clean drinking water and the National vaccination programme are very large preventive programmes that can save a lot of lives. Vaccinations are part of a healthy start in life. They protect children, people, from serious infectious diseases, and not only themselves, but also people around them, for example children who are too young to be vaccinated, and adults who have not yet been vaccinated or cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would like to answer the questions put by the Chamber thematically. Let me tell you what themes I want to go through. In the first place, these are the questions that have been asked in response to the letter Further with vaccination, the whole programme. First of all, I would like to give you a block of answers. That is the first point. Secondly, communication is dealt with and third, incorrect information approach. These are themes that are also included in the letter, but I call them a separate block. Four. The national vaccination programme. Five. The organisation of the National Vaccination Programme. Six. Meningococcal. And seven. A block of other themes. Mr. Chairman. To begin with, I will discuss the subject of further vaccination, the measures announced in the November letter last year. RIVM has recently indicated that, based on preliminary figures, there is currently no further reduction in vaccination rates in young children. Of course, that's nice, but that certainly doesn't mean we're already there. It is also a snapshot, but we hope that the idea can be derived from that that falling trend has stopped and that we can find a way up again. With the actions in the letter, I want to raise the vaccination rate further. As announced in the letter, there will be a vaccination alliance, consisting of parties and public partners who wish to share a message about the importance of vaccination. Those are our ambassadors. There's a lot of enthusiasm for this, and I'm happy about that. There is already a good example of how this alliance can work. For example, the KWF is committed to increasing the vaccination rate for HPV, I would also say specifically in the direction of Mrs Ploumen. Tomorrow, on February 15th, the KWF will launch an online public campaign. The aim of this vaccination is to show how important it is to prevent cervical cancer. I hope that other parties will join this initiative to underline the importance of HPV vaccination in the widest possible audience. Mr Veldman asked a question about further measures in the event of a decline. He says: I note that the letter contains a number of good measures. The VVD Group is also in favour of this, but perhaps we should go further, as the VVD Group says: "Maybe we should even proceed to a duty. Can you investigate what measures should be introduced if the vaccination rate falls further?" And can the variants examined also be shared with the Chamber, is also an explicit question from Mr Veldman in this context. Mr. Chairman. The vaccination rate is closely monitored by the RIVM. This even happens on a monthly basis with regard to a number of vaccinations. As I have reported to your Chamber, the declining trend seems to stabilize. But I repeat that we are not going to sit back and implement the package of measures in full. I myself am confident that the measures I have announced before will do their job. I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to examine further additional measures. I would add that in the meantime I remain open to new insights from the vaccination alliance, which is going to work this spring. Mr Veldman is now coming forward. I say to him that we have announced measures, but that I warmly invite the vaccination alliance to come up with some new insights that could add to this. In addition, I asked RIVM to look at the lower limit per vaccination, so that I know when there are real risks due to too low vaccination rates. On 4 October, in the run-up to the November letter, there was a meeting with all kinds of experts, where all kinds of possibilities to increase the vaccination rate have been reviewed. Some of it got the letter, some of it didn't. If Mr Veldman wishes to have that whole overview, I say that we have asked the RIVM to indicate the lower limit anyway. In response to his question, I would like to promise that we will take further measures in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	You look invitingly at Mr. Veldman, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	Yeah, I shouldn't, should I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	No, don't. I suggest that you complete the subject you started with, the questions arising from the letter. Mr. Veldman, then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij asks: does the Secretary of State wish to waive the vaccination obligation, which is left open as an option in the letter? In the letter I indicated that I do not see any added value of a vaccination obligation with regard to the current vaccination rate and the package of measures I am announcing. I have sufficient confidence in the actions that we are launching and have put in place. Furthermore, we do not have sufficient data on the effectiveness of the vaccination obligation. There are countries that have experience of this, which are not necessarily positive. I'm sticking to what I said in the letter. If the reduction in vaccination rates in certain types of vaccinations is at a worrying level, then we need to get all hands on deck and have an intrusive conversation with each other as to whether there is no need for it anymore. Again, for the time being, I really don't see any reason to do that, but I'm not really waving it away. I didn't do that in the letter either. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink asked how information could make greater use of personal stories. I work with RIVM and other organisations involved to further improve the communication and implementation of the National vaccination programme, so that it is even better suited to parents' questions and concerns. We are working on a new communication strategy, which should therefore be more consistent with personal wishes and also with specific target groups. The information must also be easily accessible to the target group. The use of stories is certainly a possibility, I say in the direction of Mr Hijink. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink also asked whether the Secretary of State thought it wise to publish a database of side effects and to make the pharmaceutical industry aware of possible side effects. Good information on side effects and safety of vaccines is very important. There is already a lot of information available, which is now shared mainly through the Lareb website channel. The College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products also plays an important role in this. In addition, RIVM shares this information on the website. There are therefore several channels where this is highlighted very clearly. However, incorrect information is also available online. I can imagine that there may be different solutions for different target groups. Right where fake news and fake information is concerned, we need to get all hands on deck. RIVM is already working on that. I also read from the anti-vax movement that there are many tens of thousands of people worldwide who suffer from side effects that are included in the package leaflet. Then I think: yes, that's why it's on the package leaflet that side effects can occur. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ploumen asked how the cabinet is looking at the D66 bill to allow childcare to refuse children who do not participate in the RVP. The D66 proposal addresses the issue currently under consideration by the Committee on Childcare and Vaccination. As Mrs Ploumen and other Members of Parliament undoubtedly know, the Social Affairs and Employment colleague and I put that committee to work and commissioned it. The opinion is expected in May. You will, of course, be the first to know what the result is. This type of question is answered explicitly. Mr Veldman was one of the questioners on this dossier, as was, of course, the D66 Group itself. Mr. Chairman. What more can the Secretary of State do to further increase the vaccination rate of HPV? This is a question from Mrs Dik Faber. The answer quotes comparisons with Australia. In the actions I use to improve communication, I have specific attention to the HPV vaccination. I would like to focus on information specifically for the HPV target group. I think it is important that more attention should be paid to the importance of HPV vaccination in school education. For example, RIVM works together with biology teachers on the development of teaching materials for freshmen. In addition, I am going to ensure that young people and parents who have questions about or doubt the usefulness and necessity of the HPV vaccination can go to youth health care and talk to professionals about this. Mr Renkema drew attention to the vaccination passport. In the interrupting debate with Mrs Agema which arose on this subject, I noticed that Mr Renkema says: we have, of course, that green booklet that people get. They could lose that, and that's why we need to give them another paper document, a passport. With my common sense, I think: if you can lose one document, you can lose the other. I don't know why you could lose a green book and not a passport. That may be a question again, but I have to be cautious in that, I understand. In fact, the type of document already exists. There are documents that Dutch people receive at the birth of a child, stating which vaccinations the child has had. That's also tracked. The RIVM keeps it all up to date with this has been discussed in interruptions and people can request it and know within a very short period of time what they have been vaccinated for. We've been asked if the digital route is the optimal. It needs to be perfected, and we're not done with that. This is quite a long-term issue. Having the digitally perfect in order for the client to have access to data about him will take a while. This is a route on which the Ministry of the Interior, in particular, is in charge. Mr. Chairman. Among others, Ms Ploumen asked whether the RVP could also be accessible for free for 18-plus. As I announced in the letter Further vaccination, I want to give young people who are not or are not fully vaccinated under the National Vaccination Programme the opportunity to do so. We're talking about minors. Over the age of 16, children can decide for themselves. For 18-plus, that question can also live. In the letter I said that I would consult with the RIVM and the GGDs to see how best to serve that group. In addition, very simple questions also play a role as funding. It costs money to bring that under the RVP. I'll put that in the picture with the RIVM and the GGDs to see what's the best route for that. I'll inform the Chamber of the outcome of that. Several groups, including those of Mrs Diertens, have asked whether I can ensure that pharmacists are included in vaccinations at a low threshold, for example, in order to provide information on this important dossier. Together with healthcare professionals from different occupational groups, I will identify how professionals can best be supported. We do this, among other things, through the route of the vaccination alliance. I promise you, I will involve the pharmacists. This morning we received a signal from this profession that they are very much older in the cooperative position. They want to play a role and we are going to look with them at how this can be shaped. Mrs Dik Faber said that the ball is now very much placed at the jgz, the youth health professional: at home care, the GGD and the consultation office. Antivaxers just avoid that jgz. Shouldn't you be focusing on the GP? That's a very interesting thought. I want to take a very serious look at that. I want to talk to the LHV, the dome of the general practitioners, about how general practitioners can be involved. I would also like to involve the LHV in the alliance, which has been discussed on several occasions. In addition, we are doing things in any case, including in that alliance, without involving these professional groups very closely. So that's what we do, but we're already doing conversational training and e-learnings for the different professionals who have to do with this type of question. But I promise, once again, to discuss this with the LHV, the Dutch association of general practitioners. Mr President, I have a few more questions on this dossier. Mrs Diertens asked whether information on vaccinations could be included in the training of general practitioners and obstetricians and how often consultation hours are used at consultative offices. How does that happen more often? In the training of obstetricians and general practitioners, information on vaccinations is already contained, but very limited. Work is being carried out in consultation with a view to extending this. It is therefore a relevant question. All jgz providers have the opportunity to offer an additional consultation. As you know, funds have already been made available for this last year. It is not clear to what extent it is used. In a subsequent progress report to the Chamber, I would like to provide information on this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Diertens also asked if newcomers could catch up with vaccinations from the RVP. Yes. The answer to that is yes. Newcomers can do that, but this is true for children up to 18 years old. They then fall under the same regime as Dutch children. Children entering a COA location will receive a jgz intake, including a vaccination plan. The same applies to follow-up travellers. In these children the youth doctor or the youth nurse of the regular jgz still makes a vaccination plan. If this applies to older newcomers, Mrs Diertens' follow-up question. As far as we are concerned, they are subject to the same regime as other adult Dutch. They can be vaccinated, but then it is not covered by the RVP. We have no reason to believe that this target group should be specifically examined. In 2016, more than 600 asylum seekers aged 18 to 45 from the largest influx countries (Syria, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Eritrea) were asked to participate in an investigation. This shows that this group is on average well vaccinated, just like the Dutch. That is why we want to have the same policy. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the independent knowledge bank Lareb. What does the Secretary of State think about setting up a knowledge base with reliable, independent information? Good information on side effects and safety of vaccines is very important. Much of this kind of information is already available, for example on the Lareb website, the Medicines Review College and RIVM. However, there is also a lot of incorrect information available; I just indicated it. I can imagine that there may be different solutions for making reliable and independent information available. It is possible that Lareb's call can fill this in. There are already initiatives on this. I think it is right that this should be taken into account. I'd like to take this with me in the elaboration of the letter. Around the summer, further information can come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	Where are you on answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	I have four more questions on this block. Do you want me to keep talking real quick?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	Yeah, I'd love to. Very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik asked: are you going to monitor the effectiveness of the measures? The simple answer is yes. The vaccination rate is even monitored monthly. For all types of vaccinations that is annual. It will be very difficult to measure the impact of each individual measure we have proposed in the letter. In the overall measurement it is clear whether we are having an effect. It is very difficult for us to point that out by measure. Mrs Kuik also asked: what action does the Secretary of State take in the European context? We are taking an active part in the dialogue at European level. As the Netherlands, we participate in Joint Action on vaccination. We have also adopted, at European level, a Council recommendation aimed at strengthening cooperation in the fight against diseases to be prevented by vaccination. The letter Further with vaccination was so good that we had it translated into English and distributed to EU colleagues. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema asked: is there a contingency plan or a roadmap if outbreaks occur and is it possible to reach risk groups if vaccination rates fall at risk? The RIVM closely monitors the vaccination rate. As a result, we also know which risk groups we need to reach if we need to. RIVM also has roadmaps ready to act quickly if an outbreak occurs. As I have reported to your Chamber, the declining trend seems to stabilise. That's good news right now, but we're not there yet. I have faith in it. A contingency plan is not at issue at the moment. By the way, in the regular structure the route already exists via the OMT and BOA, which makes it possible to switch quickly. That's what plans are for. Finally, Mr President. Mrs. Agema asked about the regional vaccination rate. Mrs Agema rightly states that the national vaccination rate may be in order, but that there are also regional differences. That is certainly true, and that is what I am worried about. Mrs Agema mentioned Urk's example: 58%. It is, of course, custom-made, because the causes for a low vaccination rate may also vary. I believe that municipalities and GGDs should keep their finger on the pulse and pay attention to that. But I would like to tell Mrs Agema a little more about this, which might reassure her. I'm going into the region myself. I received an invitation to attend a spring meeting of the NPV, the Dutch Patient Association, in April. I'll talk to the target believers who don't want to vaccinate. I want to talk to them about why they should abandon it, and I want to tell them the story of the government. Lower-Betuwe is the municipality with the lowest vaccination rate. That's the first town I'm going to. Mr President, these were the answers in the block further with vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	I'm gonna make a comment first. Seven topics have been raised by you. You've been working on subject number one for 20 minutes now. I am always chasing Members of Parliament a little bit to be brief and concise, but it is also customary for members of parliament to use half of their speaking time. It is the other way around: MPs keep it short and the rulers take all the space. VWS is number one with me, so I'm going to watch it very closely. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	This was indeed quite a long block. I'm going to try to turn it into a debate anyway, so I'll take you back 20 minutes in time. The Secretary of State started with an answer to the question whether or not he wants to look at further measures. He indicated, on the one hand, that he did not think that was necessary and that he had confidence in the measures he himself was taking. But on the other hand, he's working with that alliance to see what might be possible. I do not hear him explicitly naming or the things I mentioned are in there. Following the letter sent to the Chamber by the Secretary of State in December, he said: it seems to stabilise. He himself says that this is a snapshot, but then concludes that if the vaccination rate drops further, we need to have an intrusive conversation with each other at that time. I'm worried about the whole story, but I'm really worried about the last one. 'Cause if the vaccination rate drops further, we're gonna be late. If we don't start an intrusive conversation until then, we're too late, children get sick and maybe even children die.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	I don't think either of us wants that. So my question to the Secretary of State in the first term was: is he willing to examine the Australian examples I have mentioned now for desirability and effectiveness, so that if the vaccination rate falls further, we can immediately introduce measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	The Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	If that has been unclear in the answer: the answer to that question is "yes'. What I meant to say was that I would like to put the following question to that vaccination alliance: this is the letter, what do you think of it, are there any additional measures conceivable or desirable, even with regard to what other countries are doing? In my view, Mr Veldman only asks me if I have to go through all the international examples. Because Australia is mentioned as an example, but if I have to look at Thailand, Sri Lanka and other countries as an example, then we do have a very big job. So I would like to limit that to a few very good and speaking international examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	Then it's good that we understand each other well. In my first term, I mentioned a number of examples and then asked the Secretary of State if he would like to explore possibilities such as these. Indeed, all seems a little spacious to me, because then you would indeed have to search every country in the world for opportunities and measures. But the measures I have mentioned, for example, there are a number of others in Europe and outside Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	But it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	That is the kind of measures I would like to have examined so that, if vaccination rates fall, we can act immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	That's clear. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	We must do everything we can to ensure that the vaccination rate does not fall any further. The Secretary of State and I agree on that. I have suggested to the Secretary of State to include adult people who have not been vaccinated by their parents as children in the National Vaccination Programme. The Secretary of State wants to investigate. He wrote that in his letter of December. We've been three months. Why can't that decision just be made now? There are no millions of people and it is a very easy, obvious way to protect or even increase that vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	Will I come back in the second term to the question of the research it is carrying out on this subject? Because it is not the most exciting question, but we also do not want to be careless in answering that question. There will probably be a cost balance behind it; this must be clear in the picture. I would like to see if I can give a more specific answer in the second period, otherwise, if necessary, in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u23	Fine. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u24	If we want more people to be vaccinated, then we need to be clear about the importance of the various parties involved. The importance of the government is clear: that is the protection of public health and of our children. But there is a lot of discussion about another party, that of the pharmaceutical industry. What's their interest? I asked the Secretary of State if it would not be appropriate to have a look at the prices charged by the vaccine industry and the profits made on vaccines, because if we have that openness, we can also give people more confidence in the National Vaccination Programme as we have it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u25	In the last block, other than that, I wanted to go into this, but I can also go into it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u27	This is much more complex than the question suggests, I think it is a very logical question, but that is true of the whole pharmaceutical policy. Everything that the pharmaceutical industry produces to make people better or protect them preventively is under discussion. I would also like that openness, but it is very difficult to achieve. Profit margins will make them very difficult to understand. That's the technical side. A more fundamental aspect is the question of whether the government is doing itself a service if it is fully understandable what the tariffs should be, because that can have a very negative effect on our negotiating position. That is one reason why, as a government, we do not want that to be on the streets. That would also be the end of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u28	I understand the considerations, but we must realise that the pharmaceutical industry is one of the most profitable industries in the world. That feeds the mistrust of some people, of the doubters, of the people we want to cross the line, of the question: should I or should I not vaccinate and whose purpose do I serve? That is why I ask the Secretary of State what ways he can think of giving more insight. Then do it on a larger scale, not per vaccine but in a broader sense. Look for ways in which we can give that openness, because I think it is important for people to have that information, also because they want to make a careful assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u29	But I do see this question in a broader context, namely that of the entire pharmaceutical industry. However, I would like to share that question with Mr Bruins in order to be able to assess it in its entirety. I would like to come back to Room on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u30	The Secretary of State will come back to it, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u31	Yeah, but I'd like to know how, where and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u32	Look, Mr Bruins isn't sitting next to me, so I can't say that we'll have a letter on that next week. I'd like to discuss this point with him. He will have had the debate with you more often about medicines, for example. I promise to discuss it with Mr Bruins. When are we gonna communicate about that? I'm telling you, as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u33	And then you will also inform the Chamber of how this question is being dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I found the reaction of the Secretary of State to my proposal for a vaccination passport to be a bit childish. He said it doesn't matter what book you have, because you can lose a book, whether it's this book or that book. I do not think he fully understood the thrust of my proposal, but this morning I was questioned by a number of parties. In an outbreak of meningococcal disease, no one knows exactly what strain is in your history of vaccination. It'll be three weeks before you know it. That's a long time in an outbreak. But much more important than that is the symbolic moment of enrollment of your newborn son or daughter. The father, who usually does that but not always, then goes to City Hall and writes his son or daughter in it. If he gets a vaccination passport, that's the first time the government has with the newborn. That's a symbolic moment. That emphasis can be very important. And I think that fits perfectly in with the Secretary of State's communication strategy. To date, I have not heard how the Secretary of State looks at that, so I have not heard about the symbolic function that that moment and therefore that passport has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'm sure I can see the benefits of that. I don't think anyone's really fatal about this. The question is what the added value is in addition to the green booklet you get through youth health care and where your vaccination history is in, and in addition to the digital information that is available and available, as Mr Renkema also says. We've got those two vehicles. So the question is what the added value is. I don't see it, but if the Chamber feels otherwise, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u37	I therefore believe that this added value lies in that moment of provision. I haven't heard anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u38	But I do not necessarily see the added value of that. I assume that contact with the government is not decisive for people or they are going to vaccinate, but contact with youth health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u39	The contact with youth health care is indeed very valuable. My proposal was to put the general practitioners in position as well. The Secretary of State said that he would discuss with them whether they would like to take their place in the alliance. I'm happy about that. My questions are when the Chamber will be informed and whether it is an idea to include pediatricians. Especially pediatricians have been very moved in the campaign #I vaccinee, the campaign they themselves initiated on the social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'd like to take that last suggestion with me, and I'll also involve you in the alliance. She'll start in March, if it's okay. I'd like to give her a chance to get off the ground first. I also intend to inform the Chamber about the elaboration and implementation of the plans mentioned in the November letter. I'd be happy to. I don't know if that's gonna happen before the summer recess, but otherwise as soon as possible after that. So it happens around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u41	My other question is about a completely different subject, but well, there has been a lot of talk in this one block. We spoke to Lareb during the round table. They really want a birth cohort, so really a cluster of babies that sounds very disrespectful, but that's what it's called in professional jargon to follow long-term when it comes to the side effects. The aim is that they can answer basic questions, so very understandable questions from parents who are worried. The Secretary of State has said something about this, but it is a little unclear to me what he thinks of that idea. I understand that it is not settled overnight either, because there is also money needed for it and so on, but would he like to take a look at this, possibly with his colleagues in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u42	I make a lot of commitments, but I'm not going to say that we're going to honour that right now, but we're going to look seriously at that. We will share this information with the Chamber, on any part of this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u43	The Secretary of State indicated: I myself go out and look for municipalities with a low vaccination rate, such as Lower Betuwe. I saw that the municipality adopted a motion six months ago, at least in October, to get to work 'because it has a responsibility in it itself'. So that's where everything happens. Administratively, I understand that the Secretary of State says this, but does he also have an eye for new, difficult-to-discover groups, so to speak? Does he want to understand that personally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u44	This is a perfect trip to the block of communication. Do you mind if I go into that? For I think Mr Van der Staaij means, for example, the new group of non-vaxers, the anthroposophers and so on. That's what I'm getting at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u45	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. The second block is about communication. By the way, the following cubes are shorter. That's what I'm saying to reassure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u47	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u48	There were also a lot of questions asked. But I don't have to defend myself too much, I guess. I'm working with a group of experts on a communication strategy. I do this on the basis of behavioral scientific insights and with the involvement of RIVM, youth health care and other experts in the field of communication. I also take into account, of course, the ideas of experts from the hearing on 21 January. Within this strategy, we are also looking at how best to approach different groups. These are, of course, parents of infants, but also young people, for example. There is already a lot of information on the importance of vaccination. With this new communication strategy, I would like to add to the existing information provision a strong story that conveys the importance of vaccination. I would also like to stress that I think it is the best thing to tell the positive story about why you would vaccinate, rather than the story against people who have doubts about it. That must go hand in hand, but we must emphasise the positive story. Mrs Dik-Faber said that the Seydel Committee's report was critical of the role of RIVM. She asked: how do you work on these recommendations together with RIVM? I work with RIVM to improve information on the National vaccination programme. That was already a bit implicit in my introductory words. I also asked RIVM, in response to the report by the Seydel Committee, to focus more on social science research into the confidence in vaccinations and to emphasise more that social science aspect, which the Seydel Committee felt was lacking. RIVM has also set up a behavioral team, consisting of various behavioral scientists, who will co-operate on communication and research in the future. Mr Van der Staaij has in fact asked the same question about the Seydel Committee. I therefore believe that I have answered his question on this point. He has indeed said: you must distinguish those target groups; should we not approach specific groups? That's what he just mentioned in his interruption. The answer is, of course, a definite yes. I am working with RIVM and other stakeholders to see how we can optimise that communication strategy. We need to address targeted target groups with the right message and appropriate means of communication. Of course, I have an eye for the different target groups that exist. So I want to address misinformation that is spread by the antivax movements. I want young parents, including a diverse group, who have doubts about the usefulness and need of vaccinations to provide the information and information they need for an informed choice. I want the same thing for young people. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ploumen asked: what does the Secretary of State think about the possibility of naming anticancer vaccination and percentages of people who have been vaccinated in the briefing? The answer is that I am currently working with RIVM and other interested parties to further improve communication. I just said that. As regards HPV, I would like to emphasise not only the importance of vaccination, but also the prevention of diseases that may cause HPV, such as cervical cancer. So yes, but the question of whether we should call it an "anticancer vaccination," I would like to leave it to the communication specialists. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Diertens asked: is the Secretary of State prepared to look at the provision of information on vaccines outside the National vaccination programme? VWS has instructed RIVM to ensure that information is available on that type of vaccines. For this purpose, a special page was made on the website of the RIVM, rivm.nl / custom vaccinations. There is also educational material in this area for professionals. The answer is: yes, that information exists and it is also widely shared. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema asked: how will the Secretary of State reach townspeople via a national platform? The answer is that we are currently looking at how we can also focus our communication on that particular group as much as possible. An important target group is formed by doubting parents of infants, especially city dwellers. Of course, information must be consistent with the characteristics of the target group. I see a very important role for the municipalities themselves. The municipality of Neder-Betuwe, for example, takes responsibility for itself and says that one has to join forces to ensure a higher vaccination rate. Municipalities and local consultation offices are responsible for the implementation. We involve them to a large extent in the information and approach to respond to local differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u49	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u50	This was the block about communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr Hijink was just standing here and I looked a little away. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u52	That sounds more dramatic than I felt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yeah, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u54	We just had a little debate with Mrs. Dik-Faber. She basically stated that the government should measure with double standards in tackling the anti-vaxers. If it happens on religious grounds, so if the Bible is the basis, we have to accept it. If Google is the basis, we need to tackle and convince those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u55	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u56	The question to the Secretary of State is: does he also think that double standards are okay, or does he think that both groups should be convinced of the importance of vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u57	The very short answer to Mr Hijink's question at the end is yes. I'll tell you how I look at it. These are two distinct target groups. From measuring with unequal sizes, no one gets better. So I'm against that. But we have to offer customization. I think that Mrs Dik made a clear distinction between two groups in her term. There are people who do appreciate the usefulness of vaccination. They do not need to be convinced that vaccination can help. Those are people who say from their faith: I will not do it anyway, because there are higher powers that make me not need it. In my view, Mr Hijink mentions those easy-to-use anti-vaxers. I don't think we ever called that group that. Antivaxers are the new category of people who, from Google's point of view, have doubts about the usefulness and necessity. They call it homeopathic interventions or think that the child himself should do the work with his body. That's the new target group. Other information must be released on this, otherwise we must inform and convince them. For both groups, I believe that we need to gain confidence. For the record: I see it as my personal mission, and certainly that of the Empire, that we are also trying to get the target believers involved in increasing the vaccination rate. I myself am pleased to note that the group of traditional Christians, the reformatorical Christians, are increasingly willing to vaccinate. In the youngest generation of parents we see a much higher vaccination rate than in the previous generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u58	Before I give you the floor. You mentioned Mrs. Dik-Faber. I think she wants to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yes, because words are put in my mouth that I have not spoken: double standards. That's not true. I feel much more at home with the word "suitable." That's what I wanted to say. It's not double standards, it's customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u60	Good. Don't respond, just ask the Secretary of State, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u61	I will, Mr. Chairman. My point is that disinformation can come from several sides. The Secretary of State explicitly appoints the anti-vaxers. You should convince him with accurate information. But you can hear disinformation from Google or the vicar. Of course, we can do both. We must try to convince both groups to have their children vaccinated. That has to be done in different ways, but I do not accept that one group is being held over, because they make a choice on religious grounds, while other people do so for another reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u62	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u64	You answered that. Then I'm going to see Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answer, but it was not really the question I had asked. The antivaxers, very aggressive people who send very angry e-mails to MPs, I prefer to leave them behind. But there are also parents who just have a bit of doubt and google, then first encountering that very aggressive information, doubting and abandoning vaccination due to flawed ghost stories. My proposal to the Secretary of State was to build an online platform that comes at the top of the search engines, in which these ghost stories are refuted. A powerful online platform, that was my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u66	Yeah, I get that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u67	That was the next point, wasn't it? Addressing incorrect information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u68	No, that was this point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u69	Were you done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u70	The point was this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u71	I'm done with the communication block. I'm gonna go into the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u72	I thought this block was communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u73	Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u74	I want to answer that question with all my love and with your agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u76	Because I understand Mrs. Agema's point very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u77	Sorry, chairman, but you can now "uh, uh, uh"...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u78	No, calm down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u79	But, Mr. Chairman, that online platform is also about communication, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u80	Yeah, I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'm just asking the right question in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u82	I didn't say anything about whether it's a right question or not. All I have is an overview of the Secretary of State. It said: "Application incorrect information."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u84	Yes, and I asked a question about the block of communication, in which the Secretary of State, before he had the interruption of Hijink, had answered my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u85	Okay, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr President, I understand Mrs Agema's question very well. In response two things. The question about such a platform I would also like to share with the people who think along with us in that alliance: what is the best way to communicate? I see the urgency of that. The second part of my response is that I myself was Google in the run-up to this debate. I don't know if I've gotten a bit deformed, which makes me obvious to platforms, but if I'm looking for "doubt," "vaccinating" and "vaccinating risks," I'll get to the reliable websites first. Then the fifth or sixth hit is a dubious one, in our eyes. So they're already getting serious about that. I take Mrs Agema's question very seriously in this respect. This is also true of what I promised earlier: communication is part of the measures when all the plans I shared in November are rolled out. I will also inform the Chamber about this particular point around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u87	Okay, I thank the Secretary of State for this commitment, because of course I also Googled myself. RIVM is sometimes encountered, but it's really all about rebutting the ghost images of the non-vaxers in an online platform, which is really about the question marks and the risks when people google them. Because the RIVM is very wide and very good, but then you have to look very deep again if you want to get to the right counter information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u89	Speaking of communication, not only in terms of campaign, internet or digital: I also had a question about the extra speaking hours currently available at the parents' consultation offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u90	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u91	And how it is used. That is also covered by communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u92	The Secretary of State will return to that. Mrs. Ploumen, you've just been here. The same applies to Mr Renkema. One question, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u93	Yes, one question in response to what the Secretary of State said. He said: "At the fifth or sixth hit I come to a dubious website in our eyes." Would he like to reassure me that that's a dubious website?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u95	It's not just an opinion. It's not right what's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u96	If this body can be taken out of the closet, from the Acts, I mean exactly what Mrs Ploumen says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u97	Those bodies don't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u98	Oh, too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u99	No, I can't scrape anything out anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u100	Then I would very much like to have said it on my own here; that is what is happening in the Acts. These are dubious websites and we want to fight them with all our hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u101	Please continue. Oh, Mr Renkema also has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u102	Yes, one question, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it'll come later, and I'll save it for a while. It's about the position of junior doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u103	I think I'll get back to you on that. Otherwise Mr Renkema will be so assertive to come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u104	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u105	Shall I go to the block of misinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u106	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u107	In my letter I indicated that I want to address incorrect information about vaccination. There is also a great deal of attention to this worldwide. The World Health Organisation has identified the anti-vaccination movement as one of the biggest public health threats in 2019. This has to do, among other things, with the recent outbreak of measles in Europe and also in the US. RIVM is very active to answer questions from citizens and professionals on social media and also to address misconceptions. This is already happening actively by RIVM. There's more we can do. Other experts and doctors are also active on social media. What I want is to use such an expert team to combine the expertise that already exists at RIVM and the activity that takes place there with other professionals who help us in that struggle and make the right moves with each other. So it shouldn't be the case that, for example on social media, there are gaps in reactions to all kinds of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Should an open dialogue be held in schools by the youth doctor? That is Mr Renkema's question; here they come, the youth doctors. Is the Secretary of State prepared to appoint more youth doctors? The role of youth doctors and youth nurses is, of course, very important, especially in schools. I am looking at whether we can bring the issue of vaccination to the fore. In 2018, additional funds were also made available for youth health care. To what extent they are used for this particular purpose, we still have to reflect, but that certainly has our attention. For example, questionnaires are also used in secondary schools. We could suggest that we add a question about vaccinations so that this issue is also raised in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u108	Was this the end of this point too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u110	A brief question, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u111	Let's talk a little bit about the junior doctors. There have been considerable cuts in youth doctors and youth nurses in recent years. Going through conversations is something other than conducting surveys. If we're gonna do that, it's gonna take a lot of time. I understand that the Secretary of State says: we have given money, but we are not sure whether that money and that time are spent on vaccinations. Is he also prepared to reserve additional resources for this if it turns out that this is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u112	I think that last question is very premature. Let's get a picture of how that happens first. Those additional resources have really been made available specifically for this purpose. You can expect me to discuss this with the jgz if it turns out that this is not sufficiently clear. One of the actions included in the November letter is that youth health care would call people who do not want to vaccinate. That looks like something that's gonna cost money. We also need to get a picture of that, but that's a different action than the standard about it when we talk about it. That's what we're gonna visualize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mr. Chairman. I had three more questions on this subject. I'll just call it the committee fake news, that independent committee. How does it work? Is that gonna work? Among other things, the PvdA and the SGP asked for this. Within the vaccination alliance, I'm looking for experts who can strengthen us in it. There are really people in the starting blocks to help us in that. Today there is a meeting organised by Mr Roland Pierik, a university lecturer who was also present at the round table. This meeting with experts is about how best to combat misconceptions. That's all gonna be funnels. That comes together in the discussions surrounding the formation of the expert team. I have already promised you a few times: there will be a letter about progress around the summer. It also addresses this point. Mrs Diertens had also asked about the measures to combat misinformation, but that is the same question; let me not ask too much time. The final question is from Mrs Kuik: how can the IGJ act against fake news? Indeed, the IGJ can do this on two lines: through the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act, the Wkkgz, which lays down conditions such as the non-imposition of damage or a significant risk thereof. That is one route and the second route is that the Medicines Act does not allow medical claims to be made that are not appropriate. When the inspection receives a notification, it may examine it. This can only be done if the names of persons or organisations are mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State. In the letter he indicated that he was going to see if more space could be found for the inspection to do things better, because the legal space is now rather limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u116	Yes, I imagine that this issue is also on the agenda of the vaccination alliance and that we will see whether the route that is open through these two laws offers sufficient relief. It may also be that these legal regimes offer sufficient openings, but that the culture must be that people report more, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u117	Please continue. Oh, I still see Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u118	My question about accessible, honest, convincing, personalised communication, including through consultation offices and additional speaking hours, has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u119	I saw your question, but I think I have already answered it in response to Mr Renkema. Since last year, in other words 2018, youth health care has received structural additional resources to focus on vaccination in the contact moments at consultancies. That is the most personalized approach you can imagine, because then there are one-to-one contacts with parents and children. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to join the advisory process for the National Vaccination Programme. The assessment of which vaccine is being taken or not is very conscious. It looks not only at the disease burden to be prevented, but also at the logical role of the government. The advice of the Health Council plays an important role in this. There have been critical questions about this, which I do not need to repeat. In some areas steps have been taken, I say in response, for example as regards the timeliness of opinions; there were critical questions about this. On the basis of a prioritized work agenda in recent years, we have received various opinions, such as the advice on rotavirus vaccination. This has been achieved thanks to the good cooperation between Health Council and Health Institute Netherlands. I am glad that we have a Health Council that looks at this very thoroughly and scientifically and gives well-founded advice. It makes sense that in a changing field, the Health Council is also moving along. We are therefore also looking at what we can learn from other countries. I have faith in the adaptive ability of the Health Council, and we are looking at it ourselves. The Health Council, together with representatives of the Ministry of VWS, visited the UK Health Council last week. From this we can draw conclusions or learn lessons for our own advisory process. If that leads to action, we will, of course, inform the Chamber about it. One of the major benefits in England, for example, is that the preparation of the implementation is parallel to the preparation of the opinion. There's a huge amount of time savings to be made with that. It is very logical to try this in the Netherlands as well. After the summer, I'll come back to see if that's possible. I do not think that some of the criticisms made here are entirely justified, for example that certain opinions have taken an incredibly long time. That image should at least be nuanced. Many of the opinions, for example on shingles, flu, HPV and chickenpox, are on the Health Council's work agenda. Some will be delivered this year. With that, the Health Council has a decent caseload. There is also an opinion from the Health Council on meningococci. I'll come back to that in a minute. For situations where the working methods of the Health Council are not fast enough, we have, as you know, a different infrastructure. For this there is the Outbreak Management Team, the OMT, and the administrative coordination consultation. For example, I used them myself to speed up the advice on meningococcal W. Mr. Chairman. In my view, this has also answered Mrs Dierten's question as to how things could be faster in England: processes are being drawn in parallel there. It will also have to do with the capacity of the committee working there. It's been extended here recently. Mr Veldman specifically asked why it all takes so long with rotavirus. The picture seems to have taken ten years; that would indeed be almost longer than the advice on the A4 Central Delfland. That image doesn't add up. That trial's been suspended for a while. In the end, advice lasted 15 months. The process has stopped because of the new balancing framework. Mr. Chairman. Mr Renkema asked whether the decision-making process of the Health Council could be independently examined. According to the Framework Act advisory colleges, the Health Council is periodically evaluated by an external committee. So what Mr Renkema is asking is already happening. Most recently this has been implemented over a recent period, namely 2013-2016. That report came out at the end of 2017. The Ministry's response to this came in July 2018. At the moment, as I have already said, there is a process at the Health Council to improve and speed up processes. So apart from a separate, new evaluation, things have already started. Following the recent visit to England, we will also look at the areas in which we can move towards faster and better advice. Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman asked: should the advisory process not be transferred to the Healthcare Institute rather than to the Health Council? They have separate responsibilities. I think Mr Veldman knows them, too. I do not think it is appropriate to transfer everything now to the Healthcare Institute. This has a separate competence and a separate responsibility in the assessment of vaccines. It also seems nurtured by the thought that the Health Council is apparently not functioning properly. I really have a different picture of that. I think the Health Council is working well. I also want to face the fact that there are points of improvement. That's exactly what we're in intensive conversation about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u120	That's it, about this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u121	Let's see. In my opinion, this is enough for me to answer the issue of the advisory process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u122	I have two comments to make. I have a nuance to the process outlined by the Secretary of State with regard to rotavirus, reducing it to 15 months. The Secretary of State is right to say that it has stood still because of discussion about the balancing framework. But that was precisely the problem: for years, people have been arguing with each other about what balancing framework we use to come up with an opinion. And so it takes ten years, where in other countries that has really gone a lot faster. Then I have one more question about the Healthcare Institute. The Secretary of State says: I do not think it is appropriate to take such a step now. Now I've always learned that "untimely" means: I'm still looking for the right arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u123	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u124	But I don't hear any arguments. I told the Secretary of State to look at the quality and speed of the Health Council. There is criticism of this on several fronts. Research whether it is possible to transfer it to the Healthcare Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u125	I really think I've gone into it. I have said that I believe that the Health Council is working adequately in delivering advice on vaccination at the moment. We're getting very good advice. There is a work agenda with prioritization. Three opinions are separated each year by the Health Council. These are matters on which we have asked for advice. If we take into account that most specialists do so as volunteers, that is a high production. The infrastructure we have is good, but there are improvements. Among other things, the work visit to the English equivalent has increased that insight. The same applies to the hearing, which was attended by Mr Postma himself. That's the kind of thing we're gonna involve. And then I'd rather look for improvements, where necessary, at the Health Council than transfer the entire task to the Health Institute. That is my explicit answer to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u126	The Secretary of State talks about improvements at the Health Council. That'd be great. Only, I hear the Secretary of State again sticking to it: there is a work programme, there are three investigations every year, and that's it. So that doesn't say much about flexibility. That doesn't necessarily mean that the speed it takes will come. Then there is the other question I have asked, which I have not yet received an answer to. Would it not be an idea to ask the Health Council for advice automatically for all registered vaccines, i.e. all approved vaccines, instead of waiting for them for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u127	As far as the first point is concerned: three investigations a year, that may sound like little. That's a lot. But if you add all the registered vaccines to that, it will indeed become more. But then I do not think that we should be outraged by the government at the Health Council that they should deliver a little more. Then we ourselves should add butter to the fish and equip the Health Council to do so. That is the follow-up question that comes from behind. I think it's a bit crazy to say: let them deliver some more production. Those people are doing their very best with the resources they have right now. Mr Veldman is right that I have not yet answered the second question. I'd like to go into that separately. As I said, the Health Council is catching up on advice. Such catch-up shall ensure that relevant new vaccines are provided with advice within a foreseeable period. These are mostly vaccines that we have asked for an opinion on. Mr Veldman says that you should examine all the registered vaccines. Since last year, a horizon scan has been set up twice a year, in which consultations have been held with the pharmaceutical industry on vaccines that come on the market. Twice a year a prioritization order is then established on the basis of this consultation. Whether you have a 100% covering system, I don't know. I just wouldn't want to go to a system where the pharmaceutical industry produces massively and the government, and with it the Health Council, stands in the right place to see if that vaccine should be placed on the market as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u128	Finally and very briefly, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u129	I think it's still up to the Health Council, if you keep it there, to give good advice. I think the question is: how can we speed that up? I don't yet taste that notion with the Secretary of State, but this was previously in an evaluation of the Health Council. Last year there was an evaluation, which literally said that when it comes to the lead time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u130	You really don't have to summarize that. The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u131	... that when it comes to the lead time, we're talking about an important weakness. That's literally what it says. The question then is: what does the Secretary of State want to do more? Because I understand that he sees little in my proposal to improve the speed of progress? I haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u132	Measures have already been taken as a result of this evaluation. For example, the capacity of the committee has been increased. So there are more hands at work. This leads to a production of three opinions per year. If we agree that this should be more and that the adaptive capacity should be increased, then we must pronounce it with each other and then we must also add money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u133	I have one question, a bit of a control question. By the way, this interrupting debate provides much more new information about the Health Council. I have, of course, also read that broad evaluation. My question was to evaluate specifically in terms of procedures, staffing and lead time, regardless of how we do it now. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State does not consider an additional evaluation to be necessary on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u134	In reply to that question, I said that there has been a very comprehensive evaluation over the period 2013-2016. This evaluation was carried out in 2017 and the Ministry responded to it last year. That's in a fixed range, because there's gonna be another evaluation. Apart from that, we are also adaptive and are not cast into concrete....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We do not need a very comprehensive evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u135	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u136	If you ask me to come back with a very comprehensive evaluation, then the answer is "no', because there is a regular route for evaluating advisory councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u137	I'd like to call the Secretary of State to stop all these evaluations and stuff. It is really unacceptable that the lead time takes years and years. We had a hearing here. We had to hear from parents that teenagers died from meningococcal virus. It really has to stop; there has to be a quick procedure. That procedure may last up to nine months and not nine years. I'd like a commitment from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u138	I will go into that in a moment, specifically on the issue of meningococci, because that is what Mrs Agema is referring to. She does draw it wider, but in meningococcals I indicate what the infrastructure is like in the event of a calamity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u139	Then the Secretary of State will be able to answer the question now, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u140	I'd like to do the same. In meningococci W we found a number of cases in 2016 and in 2017 that number increased. That led to a request for advice. We felt that this was too slow and then we passed the opinion of the Health Council and the emergency procedure came into force. This means that, through the emergency procedure, a very quick advice will be given, which will buy us time in case of panic and more disease than we had anticipated. That infrastructure simply exists, through the OTB and the administrative consultation. That's the route we use when there's a calamity. In my opinion, it is precisely with the Health Council that it has been agreed that it should be speeded up as far as the lead time of the opinions is concerned. This leads to a work programme of three opinions per year with three different vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u141	Have all the questions been answered on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u142	About meningococcals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u143	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u144	Well, at least the most important. I do not know whether the Chamber wants to hear explicitly why B is not in the programme yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u145	I think that question was asked, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u146	Yes. Do you want me to take it right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u147	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u148	As you know, the Health Council...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u149	Mr. Chairman. I asked another question. I'm in the middle of my interruption and it'll break you halfway down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u150	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u151	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u152	No, you were just listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u153	No, I just asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u154	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u155	We're doing interruptions in duplicate, aren't we, Mr. Chairman? You're not gonna cut me off after the first one, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u156	I didn't cut you off. Just ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I do not understand is that the Secretary of State does not wish to proceed to an emergency procedure until it has gone wrong. Because, of course, we have had the hearing here with the parents of teenagers who die overnight from that meningococcal infection. That scares the hell out of me. I am shocked that the Secretary of State does not wish to proceed with an emergency procedure until it goes wrong. He should put those years of procedures overboard. He should ensure that those procedures do not last nine years at all, but nine months, regardless of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u158	However, I have just indicated that I do not know whether that has come across clearly, and that we have agreed on a programme with the Health Council which will lead to advice for each vaccine within one year. Because there are three programmes within a year that are being investigated. That's one. And two, I have just indicated, earlier in my term, that we are also looking for acceleration by parallelising implementation and advice on content. In the Netherlands this is so far in succession. We're wasting a lot of time on that. When you put it together, you switch it in parallel, you come a long way in the direction of the English approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u159	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u160	But is the Secretary of State going to do the same? Is this future music or is it going to be the standard? I don't get it anymore, Mr. Chairman. Because we see the practice that it takes years and years, that children die and then we have to tell the parents that a vaccine has already been authorised. So are those intentions, by when do these intentions go into effect? Or is it now practice that these funds should be available within a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr. Chairman. January 21st was the hearing. That's when the Chamber took notice of this. Afterwards, a delegation from the Health Council and the Ministry of VWS, and perhaps other experts, went to England to take note of how things are going there. In this respect, we can take an example. Then I think it's a little over-questioning when you say, "Do you have it tomorrow?" No one is as motivated to save the lives of young children as I am. You can assume from me that I will set up a very good infrastructure for that as soon as possible. I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u162	I would suggest that you also complete the rest of the questions and the rest of the points in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u163	Yes. About meningococcals B the question was asked why it is not in the RVP. There's an opinion from the Health Council. The room already knows that. I have to respond to that next month. The arguments of the Health Council are well known. There are a stable number of meningococcal cases B. There is no increase, as with W. And it's a very small group. I think that is a fragile argument, but it is mentioned by the Health Council. It is important that there is still insufficient knowledge of the efficacy of the vaccine. I think that is a very important advice. The vaccine is particularly vulnerable in young children in a number of cases, as it can lead to very high fever, leading to hospitalisation. And finally, this always weighs with vaccines, the cost-effectiveness is very unfavourable. That's what the Health Council says. That's where I'm gonna base an opinion that I'm gonna send to the Chamber next month. One of the spokesmen asked: should it then take three years for you to reconsider, or if you do not? I think we're considering that permanently. And when we see an increase, that calamity structure that I just outlined applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u164	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u165	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u166	How far along are you, by the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u167	I think I only have a folder of 'organisation' with two answers, and 'other' is three answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u168	I also have a question about cost-effectiveness in connection with the round table. Does the Secretary of State also take what exactly is being cut? For some diseases are of such a nature that whole families are no longer able to function. So that also has an impact on cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u169	The latter also weighs with the Health Council, and I will take that into account in my response to the opinion of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u170	I can also understand the argument when it comes to side effects in young children. Is it being considered whether it is legitimate to inoculate older children? Is that an option instead of those young children, because we can see that the side effects are still unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u171	Shall we agree that, in my response to the opinion of the Health Council, I will explicitly highlight that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u172	Yes. Then that's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u173	My question is specifically about meningococcal B. When you read that advice, you can see that it is partly based on financial considerations. Partly it is also about doubts, where I wonder how it is possible that so many other countries are simply vaccinated against meningococcal B. I think a lot of people in the Netherlands don't understand that very well, especially when there are 80 illnesses a year and people just die from this disease. And I would like to ask the Secretary of State: would a review not be appropriate at such a time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u174	That's a very legitimate question. I also promise to respond specifically in my response. I would like to point out something; I have not done so so far. Our respected countries such as Belgium and Germany have also decided, on the advice of their Health Council, not to include this in their vaccination programme, also because the prevalence of the disease is at the same, lower, level as in the Netherlands. I find it hard to say something like that, because of course every death case is one too many. But in Germany and Belgium, these considerations have led to non-recording, and we are in the same range. England will do it. I will take your question into account in my response to the Health Council's opinion, but I do not think it is the culture here that the Ministry deviates massively from the advice of the Health Council. I'm just saying this in the context of expectation management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u175	Continue, and also towards a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr. Chairman. I have two comments to make on the organisation of the National Vaccination Programme. It is important to stress that the vaccination rate in the Netherlands is still high. This is also due to our RVP, which has enabled us to prevent thousands of cases of disease. Twelve infectious diseases have been included in our RVP and some vaccines are available at their own expense. Examples include chickenpox vaccination and flu shot. HPV is also in our programme and Mrs Ploumen asked an explicit question about this. She asks me to withdraw from the statements made by Mr Coutinho. I am not in favour of Mr Coutinho's proposal to place this with the general practitioner. On the contrary, I think it is very important that the HPV vaccine for girls is included in the National Vaccination Programme. In my letter, therefore, I also stressed the importance of the HPV vaccination. In addition, the Health Council is currently considering whether the HPV vaccine should also be offered to boys. That was this block. Finally, I'm going to the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mrs. Agema, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u178	I had asked why the HPV vaccination cannot be given at the age of 12, in group 8 at primary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u179	I know you asked the question. I don't have a ready answer. I have to come back to that or to that in the second term, or I will think of the answer that, on the advice of the Health Council, vaccination will take place at a later age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u180	Then I'd rather hear that than at a later age, because in primary school you take your kids a little easier, during the last time you go to the consulting office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u181	I think there's also a contact moment in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u182	Yeah, but then it's all teenagers and they're gonna get in the way and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u183	But the Secretary of State will come back to it, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u184	Yes, but I would remind Mrs Agema that the catch-up we make in meningococcal type W is also aimed at 14- to 18-year-olds. That's what we've got in mind. They're gonna do it massively. At HPV, you'd hope the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u185	Yeah, but you're gonna catch up because you didn't do that at elementary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u186	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u187	And I had also asked to include chicken pox in the National Vaccination Programme. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but if my questions aren't answered, I have to keep walking here. Then you can get annoyed about that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u188	I'm not annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u189	Then I am speaking for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u190	Go ahead, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u191	Chickenpox is also excluded from the RVP on the advice of the Health Council. In England, advice requested is binding on the equivalent of the Health Council. In the Netherlands it is not a binding opinion, but it is actually the culture that this opinion is taken on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u192	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u193	I'm not asking what the Health Council thinks. We know what the Health Council thinks. But apparently the Health Council also thinks that children should suffer, that they should only be under a few hundred vesicles, that they should only have scars on them and that they should get shingles at a later age. I'm allowed to ask the Secretary of State if he agrees. I don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u194	No, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u195	What does he think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u196	I think it's a caricature that Mrs. Agema sketches, that people from the Health Council can get vesicles...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u197	No, no, Mrs. Agema, I'm very sorry. No, the Secretary of State is speaking. Mrs Agema, you are asking for something, and the Secretary of State must be given the opportunity to respond to it. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u198	I'm not the Health Council, and I don't have any stock there, but I do want to say the following. If it is said that the Health Council is okay with children getting vesicles and all sorts of nasty complaints, I think that is a caricature and we should distance ourselves from it. With the scientific information they have, the Health Council has given an opinion to the government. It's been followed. If Mrs Agema asks: what is your position on a subsequent opinion of the Health Council on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u199	Mr President, you may get more and more irritated at me, but I am not making this a caricature at all. It is a fact that children must suffer from chickenpox. It's a fact that they're under hundreds of vesicles. It's a fact that they're left with scars. It's a fact that it allows you to get shingles at a later age. Those are exactly the words I just said. That's not caricature at all. I asked the Secretary of State if he has his own opinion, if he thinks children should suffer and if it's normal at this time, in the 21st century, you can still get shingles when you get older. That's an awfully painful condition! I ask him not to hide behind the Health Council, but to take his own view. I hope he agrees with me that it is no longer necessary at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u200	Then we could also ask each other whether we should include flu in the national vaccination programme. Flu...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u201	No, no, no, no, no. I will end this discussion, thank you very much. Were you done with your points? No, calm down, Mrs. Agema. You asked the same question a few times. Were you ready, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u202	I've got three answers to the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u203	Then I would really quickly give those answers. Then we go to the second term. Then everyone is free to ask questions or make a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u204	Mr Hijink has asked questions about the privacy arrangements. Does RIVM still have an image of which part of the population has been vaccinated? The fact is that the new privacy rules require stricter action. We're just legally required to ask people permission to register. That's leading. Mr Hijink asks me to amend the Public Health Act. This line is agreed in the Public Health Act. We're not going to deviate from that either. I have tried to steer a culture in which as many parents as possible who are going to give permission and we have a clear picture of how many people have been vaccinated. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the role of municipalities. In fact, I have already said something about that. Municipalities have been responsible for the implementation of the National vaccination programme since 1 January. The policy is, of course, state policy. I have just said that municipalities can indeed help by encouraging their people to follow the National vaccination programme. We have just heard examples of municipalities doing so. I have frequent contact with municipalities about this. We have also set up an administrative consultation structure between Rijk and municipalities. Has the Ministry prepared for the Brexit regarding the availability of vaccines? RIVM has inventoried the availability of vaccines after an unexpected hard Brexit. The vaccine producers have indicated that they can comply with current contracts. I say this in response to Mrs Kuik's questions. I think I'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u205	Yes, have you answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u206	I am now getting an answer to Mrs Agema's question in 12 years' time and HPV. The opinion of the Health Council on HPV also deals with the age at which the vaccine is offered. So that's what new information is going to be about. Chickenpox was a sensitive issue. There's a new request for advice. The Health Council will advise on how to deal with this in 2020. I also received information on shingles, but I do not think there was a question about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u207	Well, maybe it's good to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u208	The request for advice is also with the Health Council. This year there will be an opinion on shingles from the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u209	Then that's clear, too. One question, Mr. Hijink. Then we go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u210	If I understand correctly, an exception can be made within the GDPR and within the Public Health Act for those parts of information that are really needed to protect public health. It has been chosen not to do so explicitly when it comes to vaccination data. I think we should have that data. I believe that the law can be amended on that point. I'll ask the Secretary of State to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u211	It's so ready that it can be adapted to that part, because that's what we're about. I am not yet in the position to do so, because first I want to see where the current situation leads. I'm assuming that parents have no objection. Parents make all the conscious choice to have their child vaccinated. I cannot therefore come up with an argument as to why RIVM should not have access to it. So let's see how it works out in practice before we change the law on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u212	Thank you. That's where we came to an end. Oh, did a question just lie there? Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u213	The Secretary of State is now coming up with answers to questions I had asked earlier and which I had interrupted. The Secretary of State does not have his own opinion on chickenpox and leaves the question to the Health Council. Then why is it taking so long? We have had an interruption debate on this before. The Secretary of State wants to shorten those procedures and now comes with an answer that it will come in 2021. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u214	That has to do with the fact that I was just talking about. There's a programme in prioritization that the Health Council is going to give advice on. The board advises on three vaccines per year, because that is their caseload. We can talk to each other or the capacity needs to be increased, but at the moment the Health Council can handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u215	It is just very strange that in countries around us people have been vaccinated for a long time and that in the Netherlands everyone has to suffer. That's weird, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u216	Then we go to the second term of office and I give the floor to Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SP broadly supports the line taken by the Secretary of State to strengthen protection against dangerous infectious diseases. Sometimes you have to fight stories. You must address one-on-one people when they decide not to vaccinate their child and inform them of what that means for the health of the child. It is also a good thing that the Secretary of State is holding back the obligation, but not yet committed because it is not yet necessary. What is also important to us is that campaigns become more effective and confrontative. On that point, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has launched the plan of further vaccination with which it intends to increase vaccination readiness;]] [[noting that good information and communication have an important place in the plan;]] [[Considers that the stories of experience experts provide a compelling picture of the consequences of non-vaccinating and thus demonstrate the importance of vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that experience experts play an important role in public communication and to identify the effects of infectious diseases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-353]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u218	At the last point we were just talking about, we think it's important that we change the law so that we keep an eye on the vaccination rate in our country. For that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents are required to authorise the transmission of vaccination data to RIVM;]] [[considers that the transmission of all vaccination data to RIVM is of great importance for understanding the vaccination rate;]] [[calls on the Government to state in the Public Health Act that it is generally important that all vaccinations are registered under the National Vaccination Programme in order to monitor the vaccination rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-354]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you. Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you, Mr President. GroenLinks also supports the line of the Secretary of State. I have put in three points and I have three motions on those same points. They aim to further strengthen that line. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is worrying that the HPV vaccination rate in the Netherlands has fallen in recent years;]] [[Whereas one of the reasons for this is that parents and young people have doubts about the usefulness of vaccines and are concerned about possible side effects;]] [[Whereas there are good experiences elsewhere with discussions with experts, which has led to a further increase in vaccination rates after a decrease;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a wider involvement of youth doctors in both youth health care and in schools can contribute to increasing the HPV vaccination rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-355]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u221	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that every person knows well what vaccinations he or she has had and how long they are working;]] [[whereas there is already a "yellow passport" of the GGD for travel vaccinations, and this could be complemented by the vaccinations you receive as a child;]] [[Whereas the provision of an official public document sends an important signal to parents;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to establish a vaccination passport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-356]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u222	And finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the decision-making process on whether or not to add a vaccine against infectious diseases to the National vaccination programme may take a very long time, as in the case of meningococcal disease W;]] [[Whereas the long decision-making procedure may lead to unnecessary risks to public health;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent evaluation of the current duration and procedure for decision-making on addition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-357]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party also largely agrees with the approach of the Secretary of State. Only we want him to do more and he'll go faster than he goes. We believe that there are all the possibilities for this, but there is every reason to do so. Partly for this reason I will sign a motion from the VVD and also have a motion myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that adults who wish to make up for vaccinations they have not had as a child now have to pay hundreds of euros;]] [[believes that it is in our common interest that as many people as possible have been vaccinated;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the costs of allowing adults to make up for the vaccine actions of the National Vaccination Programme free of charge and to make proposals for them in the 2020 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-358]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u225	Thank you. Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u226	Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Secretary of State and I have found each other in the process of further examining measures which we hope we will never have to apply, but to be sure, I have a motion, which will probably get a Chamber judgment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of infection of various diseases is increasing as a result of a decrease in vaccination rates;]] [[noting the need to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate from the point of view of public health;]] [[Whereas waiting for measures until the vaccination rate is irresponsiblely low is not an option;]] [[calls on the Government to examine possible variants that contribute to increasing the vaccination rate for effectiveness and desirability, so that decisions can be taken rapidly in the event of a further reduction in the vaccination rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Ploumen, Mr Renkema and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. dossier/32793]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u227	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I see a very big headline in the AD, namely: VVD wants to pay for people who do not vaccinate. Is that what you have in mind with this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u228	If you read the article, it says almost word for word what I have said here in this Chamber in the first term. I want to have examined whether this kind of possibility is effective and desirable to increase the vaccination rate. I'm not going over the headlines of a newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u229	Okay. So the title's a little boud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u230	I'm not gonna go over in the paper. If you read the article, you will see what I have almost verbatim said here and which I call for in this motion: I would like to have examined the pros and cons of measures other than those we are now taking to ensure that the vaccination rate goes up again. In the end, I am concerned with protecting the safety and health of children. That is what we need to focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u231	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr. Chairman. Two other motions very quickly, because we did not find each other on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Health Council needed as much as ten years to deliver an opinion;]] [[noting that advice on meningococci is also the subject of a discussion on the timeliness of the opinion;]] [[further noted that the review of the functioning of the 2018 Health Council with regard to the long lead time of opinions speaks of a "significant weakness";]] [[asks the government to examine whether the advice on the programmatic provision of vaccinations can be accommodated at the Zorginstituut Nederland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Health Council has an independent responsibility in carrying out investigations and thereby in delivering opinions;]] [[noting that the opinion on meningococci W is a discussion on the timeliness of the opinion;]] [[Whereas, from a public health point of view, the availability of approved registered vaccines without an opinion on a programmed approach is a missed opportunity;]] [[calls on the Government to provide legal provisions for the immediate provision of an opinion on the programmed provision of vaccination for registered vaccines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-360]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u233	Madam President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The Court's contributions sometimes also raised the question of whether coercive measures should be considered in the future. Let me be clear: the SGP rejects this once and for all. As far as we are concerned, that really is a sharp line that we need to draw. Exactly the experiences of the past, also in the Netherlands, learn how counterproductive that was. What we see as good is good information and good dialogue. I would also like to underline the word'suitable' used by the Secretary of State. This has been done in the past. I refer, for example, to 'Vaccination in the reformative spirit, information for youth health care', in which it was explicitly stated that if you look at the medical aspects very extensively, it is often not beneficial at all. If theological arguments play a role, then the question of what belief in Providence means and how that is filled out differently is much more important for parents than, for example, when you very much stress the severity of the disease. There was another point. I had to think about it when Mr Hijink was talking about combating the disinformation of vicars. PhD research shows that vicars don't have much influence on that choice at all. Young parents make that choice mostly themselves and therefore it is also important to reach them. With these illustrations I want to show how close this listens and how important it is to use customization. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to contact the Dutch Patient Association separately from the municipalities. It is precisely when it comes to information on certain types of vaccination, such as HPV, that it plays an important role as a question mark and mouthpiece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u234	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for all the answers he has given. I think we've had a good debate. I would like to table another motion on one point. It's about the involvement of general practitioners and pediatricians. The Secretary of State has said that she would like to take it with her in the vaccination alliance. I think there are also a lot of opportunities to actively involve them, including in the further follow-up and implementation process, in order to increase the willingness of parents to be vaccinated. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas parents who do not wish to participate in the National Vaccination Programme will be actively approached for an interview with a jgz professional;]] [[Whereas for these parents a compelling profession of a doctor may be better than general information from the government or municipal authorities;]] [[calls on the government to actively involve general practitioners and paediatricians in the vaccination alliance to consider the role they can play in increasing the willingness of critical parents to be vaccinated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u236	Yeah, a quick question. Mrs Dik-Faber's motion focuses on what she calls "critical parents." As far as she is concerned, do they include parents who, for religious reasons, do not have their children inoculated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u237	Yes, with this motion all target groups are served, I think, also parents who because of their beliefs do not have their child vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u238	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u239	Thank you, Madam President. It is clear from this debate that urgency, speed and care are extremely important. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are facing an increasing risk of infection in the Netherlands as a result of a falling vaccination rate;]] [[Whereas the Government intends to actively point out to 16- and 17-year-olds who have not been vaccinated under the National Vaccination Programme the possibility of catching up with these vaccinations and to consider how this possibility can be offered to older age groups;]] [[considers that prevention of infection does not stop at borders and that, in the context of group immunity, the highest possible vaccination rate in the Netherlands is desirable;]] [[calls on the government to examine how promising newcomers can be reached so that they too, in the same way as the government intends for older age groups, are given the opportunity to make up for vaccinations from the National vaccination programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that low threshold access to vaccinations and information on them can contribute to reducing the increasing risk of infection;]] [[Whereas the Pharmaceutical Group of the European Union (PGEU) calls for pharmacists to be more involved in informing or even administering vaccinations because of their role as one of the most accessible care providers;]] [[noting that in some places in the Netherlands injections are already being given to people by assistants and pharmacists of outpatient pharmacies;]] [[Whereas in several European countries, such as Finland, Italy and Norway, patients can obtain information on vaccinations and that in some European countries, such as the United Kingdom, Denmark and France, the pharmacist can also administer these vaccinations after further training;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify how the pharmacist can be better involved in the vaccination process, taking into account the role of the pharmacist in other European countries, and to inform the Court of Justice about this as well as about the follow-up steps that will follow in the third quarter of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-363]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diertens and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-364]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u240	I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply. We wholeheartedly support the line he is working on. I have already tabled a motion with the SP on the importance of telling stories, with D66 on involving professionals, such as pharmacists, and I myself have a motion here with Mrs Diertens. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the regular route for the evaluation and implementation of vaccines in the Netherlands has a long lead time;]] [[noting that vaccines sometimes result in unnecessary delays for many years for citizens;]] [[Considering that in the event of an outbreak likely to lead to a national threat or crisis, it is possible to convene an Outbreak Management Team, leading to an accelerated pathway for the implementation of vaccines;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether there are lessons to be learned from the process of the accelerated pathway through an Outbreak Management Team for the regular route for the evaluation and implementation of vaccines with a view to accelerating their lead time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-365]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u241	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u242	There are, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u243	... 13 motions filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u244	Yeah, 13 motions filed. I'm gonna go see them real quick. Before I do that, very briefly an answer to a question by Mr Van der Staaij about contact with the NPT. I'd like to say I'm gonna start that. Then I'll get to the motions. In the first motion, in part No. 353, ask Mr Hijink and co-signator Mrs Kuik to use experience experts. That's a nice idea. I'll give the motion judgment room. Then there is the second motion, in part No. 354 by Mr Hijink: calls on the Government to state in the Public Health Act that it is generally important for all vaccinations to be registered in order to monitor the vaccination rate. We've just exchanged words about it a few times. I really want to dissuade that motion. I would also like to add an argument that has not yet been changed. If people object to having it registered in this way, there is even a chance that they will not be vaccinated. We all agree that vaccination is paramount. The registration of these vaccinations is also super important, but less important than the vaccination itself. For this reason, if people refrain from doing so, it will override its purpose. I'm holding on to dissuading this motion. Please let us first see to what extent this is going to work. I sincerely hope that people who are being vaccinated are also willing to register that, but the motion in part No. 354 I don't recommend. In the motion by Mr Renkema and Mrs Ploumen to item No. 355 calls for a wider involvement of youth doctors in order to increase HPV vaccination rates. Let me just say in my words what is in the operative part. In my opinion, we should not seek refuge in more youth doctors, but rather in a more focused effort, so that communication can be fully understood. If, therefore, the motion says very loudly that more doctors should come, I advise her, but if the request is to be read in such a way that the efforts of youth doctors and youth nurses should be more focused on it, then you have me at your side. This is just not in the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u245	On Mr Renkema's authority, too, I would like to say that it is the latter. So it is not necessarily more doctors, but much more about the use of those doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u246	If the motion can be interpreted in this way, the verdict is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u247	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u248	The motion in part No. 356 by Mr Renkema and Mrs Ploumen on that passport. We have already exchanged a great deal about this. I think it is a very sympathetic idea in terms of symbolic value, but I do not think that this is something that the government or the municipal government must necessarily see. People distrust those who often vaccinate when it comes to vaccination. That's what we need to break through. This is a task of youth health care. The implementation of the motion is also very complicated, so I advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u249	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u250	In the motion in part No. 357 Mr Renkema asked the government to review the current duration of decision-making procedures. I have already indicated that this broad evaluation of the Health Council has been carried out recently. We're looking at improvements. I can't say enough. I shall return to one of the last motions. I advise this motion to re-evaluate. The motion in part No. 357 has therefore been dissuaded. With her motion in part No. 358 Ms Ploumen asked the government to carry out research into what it would cost to allow adults to make up for the vaccinations of the national vaccination programme free of charge and to propose this for the 2020 budget. I have already announced in the letter that we will have that examined. I don't know if I'm going to save 2020 when it comes to any cover, because it just costs money. Actually, there's something tricky in it. On the first part concerning the conduct of the research, I say: sure, heartfelt. Whether this can be translated into the 2020 budget is just as much to ask for. I would give the motion in its intention to judge Chamber, but in order to incorporate it into the 2020 budget, it is really over-questioning. It brings with it more costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u251	But we need to know what the verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u252	Maybe I should be a little more specific, yeah. If in the operative part it remains that it should have its place in the 2020 budget, I do not think I can live up to that. I have to say, in the context of expectations management, that that would be over-questioning. If Mrs Ploumen says 'be with that investigation as soon as possible and then inform the Chamber accordingly', I will gladly carry out the motion. I therefore propose to her that the operative part be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u253	Shouldn't Mrs Ploumen do that, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u254	Dissuade. In the motion in part No. Mr Veldman c.s. examine all possible variants that contribute to increasing vaccination rates. That's what we've been exchanging. If I may explain the operative part in this way, as was briefly supported in the interrupting debate, and we do not have to look literally at the whole world, but only the good, speaking examples, I am, of course, prepared to do so and I would like to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u255	The Secretary of State asks if he can read the motion like that. Yeah, he can read it like that. It says "possible variants."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u256	It's Judgment Room, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u257	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 360 explains what Mr Veldman already said in the debate: put this advisory task at the Health Institute. I'd really like to discourage that motion. I believe that the Health Council is doing a good job, that we are still succeeding in improving that further and that the Health Institute has a separate responsibility in this whole advisory structure. So this motion has been dissuaded. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 361 Mr Veldman and Mr Renkema asked the government to provide a legal framework for the immediate provision of advice to registered vaccines. There's an acceleration in the advisory structure behind this. That's what we're doing. If I say "do it" here, I just can't live up to it. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 362 by Mrs Dik-Faber. This concerns the introduction of general practitioners and pediatricians. That's very much in line with what we're doing. As far as I'm concerned, I can take over this motion or give her judgment Chamber. I do not know what Mrs Dik prefers. As far as I am concerned, I can even accept this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u258	You're okay with taking over the motion, Mrs. Dik-Faber? Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 362 by Mrs Dik-Faber? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u259	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Diertens' motion on item No. 363, which is about how we're going to treat the promising newcomers, 18-plussers. At the moment I see the possibility to offer 18-plussers a catch-up moment. This is about the whole group throughout the Netherlands. This includes the group of newcomers. About that exercise, that investigation, I'd like to report to the Chamber around the summer. In fact, I would like to ask Mrs Diertens to hold the motion until then, because if I tell the Chamber about it and it is not to the liking of Mrs Diertens, then she can still put this motion in motion, I think. So a friendly request to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u260	Would you like to hold the motion, Mrs. Diertens? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u261	Mr. Chairman. The motion by Mr Diertens and Mr Kuik to item No. 364 concerns the role of pharmacists. It's been taken from my heart. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u262	Okay. Then the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u263	That is the motion by Mr Kuik and Mr Diertens on item No. 365. It invites the government to examine whether there are lessons to be learned from the process of the accelerated journey through an Outbreak Management Team for the regular route et cetera. That is entirely in line with the commitment I made in the debate. It's different trajectories, though. We have the regular consultative process and this panic path, so to speak. That should not be the standard, but I am looking at all the fronts where we can speed up. That's what this is all about. In that sense, this motion gets judgment Chamber. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u264	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u265	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the spokesmen and the people in the public gallery.
