ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr De Jong, on behalf of the PVV, for his question to the Minister for Social Affairs on the non-increase in income. Mr. De Jong, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. When this cabinet took office, we were promised that people would really notice that the economy is improving, that they would make a lot of progress. That didn't come out at all. Research carried out by Maurice de Hond shows that 68% of the Dutch indicate that the increase in the burden is higher than the increase in income. 79% of all Dutch people even indicate, it is not noticeable in the wallet that things are getting better. And last week everyone could read that income hasn't risen for ten years. This is an absurd situation. Business profits double and there are billions going abroad through this cabinet, but our own people have checked. In the meantime, people see that their energy bill explodes, that their own risk has become almost priceless and that the messages become more expensive again. Mr. Chairman. This has to stop. It is time for the common Dutch to stand at one and take advantage of economic growth. That is why my appeal to this Minister is to reverse the VAT increase, eliminate the risk and reverse this bizarre increase in energy costs. Do it now. This saves citizens hundreds of euros, and that is a significant step towards improving purchasing power. This can also be done without problems and again this year, by using part of the budget surplus and by not allowing the reduction of the tax on profits for large companies to continue. Mr. Chairman. Ordinary, hardworking Dutch deserve real purchasing power gains. That is why I am asking this Minister here today to take these PVV proposals directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'm a little confused, because I thought I'd get questions about the CBS investigation. Last week the CBS came up with a survey on income developments in the last ten years, from 2007 to 2017. In that we have seen that incomes have indeed fallen behind during that period. This, of course, was largely due to the financial and economic crisis that has taken place, which has led to a sharp rise in unemployment and a fall in wages. As a result, on balance, there was limited income progress over the whole period. The cabinet said at the start of this cabinet period that it wants to support incomes. That is why, for example, we have included in the coalition agreement measures to reduce the burden of EUR 5.2 billion. That's on balance; that's all pluses and minuses. They are included in the coalition agreement. What is also positive is that this morning the CBS figures for the year 2018 showed that household income has increased significantly again in 2018, as more and more people have found a job. People have either come to work from a benefit or have seen their income rise. Mr De Jong is now asking for a reversal of a number of policy intentions in the government agreement that were discussed on Prinsjesdag, such as the VAT increase and the energy tax. You will understand that I cannot go into all the details during Question Time. In part, it is also the responsibility of other directors. I would like to say, however, that in general this cabinet reduces the burden on balance. Yes, there are measures to increase the bill, such as the VAT increase, but on balance there is a greater reduction in the burden on labour. As a result, according to the most recent insights of the Central Planning Bureau 96% of the Netherlands improves in this year. These are positive developments. Finally, Mr President. We see that in the first two or three months of this year collective wage increases are increasing. I'd almost say: finally! Of course, that took a very long time. The shortage in the labour market also leads to higher collective wage increases, which fortunately increases the disposable income of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's the same little straw we've heard in the last few years. No one's watching this at all, believe that. I think there is one more person who believes this story, perhaps two people, namely Minister Koolmees and Prime Minister Rutte. They're pretty much the only ones who still dare to defend this. Because what is the practice? The practice is that a vast majority of Dutch people are not making any progress at all in the wallet. They see that the energy charges are going up like hell and they're getting caught on all sides. In the meantime, they will see that this minister indicates that everything is going so well. So that's a falsehood. That is why I ask this Minister once again: look at the citizens and what they really are going through in practice. He's having a really hard time. He's been busted hard in the last few years. The minister isn't doing anything to meet these people. He says they're getting better, because on the one hand they're getting a euro. On the other hand, however, they are caught hard by, for example, higher energy costs. Some people are unable to pay for their own risks or the groceries are incredibly expensive. Some people can't even pay the rent anymore. That's the practice of every day. That is why once again my question is: make sure you restore this as a cabinet. That is what you can start by saying: we are reversing the VAT increase, eliminating our own risk and also reducing energy costs. You can do that, because today the paper said that there is a budget surplus of 11 billion. You could use a piece of that. You can also choose to reverse the profits of companies via the profit tax as a cabinet. That's what's needed right now. This cabinet must unite the citizen. I just want to get a yes on that from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	I am going to answer the questions that Mr De Jonge has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	De Jong, excuse me. For example, when it comes to energy costs, the Prime Minister announced two weeks ago, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, that a different choice is being made here in anticipation of the climate agreement: the energy tax is going down and a larger part of the bill is being deposited with companies. In that sense, therefore, Mr De Jong is actually served at his beck and call. When it comes to the other measures that have been taken, I would like to emphasise that we are looking at the overall picture. Measures have indeed been taken to increase the burden on households. Think of the VAT increase and the energy tax. There has been a great deal of confusion about the latter, and that has been very bad for confidence in these figures; I certainly want to acknowledge that. However, there is a significant reduction in income tax. At the start of the coalition agreement, we made the choice to mainly give relief to people. On balance, this period amounts to €5.2 billion of relief to people and €1 billion to businesses. So this particular cabinet has put the emphasis on supporting people's incomes in the Netherlands. The last point made by Mr De Jong concerns the surplus. I also saw the news this morning about the surplus on the 2018 budget. That is, of course, also good news, because we agreed in the government agreement on a very large investment agenda with extra money for care, education and Defence, but also for burden relief. But we do use the good economic times to supplement our buffers and reduce public debt, so that we are in good shape when there is a next economic crisis; and it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	You have nineteen seconds, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	So the conclusion is simply that this minister is not going to give back to the citizen that excess tax money from the budget surplus is not going to reduce energy costs at all, is not going to eliminate his own risk at all, and is not going to ensure that people's messages simply remain affordable. That's a hell of a scandal. I will use all the possibilities in this Chamber to try to change his mind, but unfortunately I do not see that as a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. There are studies showing that disposable income has remained the same for 40 years. At the same time, the money is plotting against the plinths of companies and shareholders and we see that the number of people working in poverty is increasing. Extremely poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	This is a run-up to demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask whether the Minister thinks that this is a disgrace and whether he is prepared to take over the SP plan and therefore raise the minimum wage by 10% so that we can get those working people in poverty out of poverty at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	Research into disposable income over the last 40 years has indeed been carried out very often. We have just had a little debate with Mr Van Weyenberg on what the statements to that effect are. One of these is, of course, that the household composition has changed considerably over the last 40 years. The second is that in the last ten years care premiums in particular have taken a big bite out of disposable income. You don't see that in your private consumption, but of course you do in our collective consumption. In fact, healthcare expenditure has increased considerably. I also think it is important to point out that a CBS report dated two weeks ago states that unemployment has fallen to 3.4%. That's the lowest level since 2003. I think we should be satisfied with that, too. This means that a lot of people have come out of benefits or that a lot of people have been able to find a better job. These are all positive developments. Apart from that, I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that we must combat working poverty in the Netherlands. Secretary of State Van Ark has announced a number of measures to this end. I mention, for example, the broad offensive that allows people to go to work and improve their income. However, I do not think that the proposal to increase the statutory minimum wage is a sensible route because it makes people at the bottom of the labour market vulnerable because they are not adopted by employers and therefore stick to unemployment. My route would be to reduce taxes and make the labour market work better, giving them a chance to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that many parties in this Chamber and also the Minister are a bit upset that wages are not rising anymore. What a lot of people hate more is that the salaries of CEOs, top men, are a thousand times higher than those of the people on the job floor. One example: Unilever 283 times the average employee's salary. I therefore have a question for the Minister. Does the Minister consider this to be unfair? Is the Minister prepared to come up with measures or support measures from the Chamber that reduce the pay gap between the ordinary employee and the CEO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. I believe that you are having another debate on this subject this afternoon as a result of an initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u19	Yes, Mr Smeulders knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Smeulders knows that. I think he is a spokesperson, because Mr Snels is here in trade-K right on this subject. Let this speech end up in that debate. I myself sometimes pull up my eyebrows when I see the wage ratio in the market sector. At the same time, it is fair to recognise that as a cabinet, we are not talking about salaries in the market sector. I have many views on this and you have views on it, but this is clearly a responsibility of the shareholders and also of consumers. But you have a debate on this in your Chamber this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u21	That's right. Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr President, thank you. I have also heard the Minister say a few times today that 96% of Dutch people are improving their purchasing power. I really wonder where this myth came from and what it is based on, because the same minister and also his colleague Rutte, our Prime Minister, predicted in 2017 that more than half of the Dutch would make progress. In the end, this minister had to acknowledge in 2018 that more than half of them did not progress; that was based on inflation. How does this minister know how high inflation will be next year? How does he know 96%, he just doesn't say 96.1% or 96.2%...? That accuracy, how can it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u23	First of all, I did not become a minister until the end of 2017. I think Mr Azarkan is confusing me with my predecessor. Secondly, what is the fable based on, Mr Azarkan asks. These are the figures from the Central Planning Office on 5 March. Last week the total CEP came out with these purchasing power figures. I didn't make it up, that's our independent calculator's estimate of the Central Planning Office; that's what made this calculation. I agree with Mr Azarkan that there are many assumptions underneath this. So Mr Azarkan is right that an inflation forecast has been estimated, but it may be higher and it may be lower. The same applies to contract wage development, which has now been estimated at 2.7% for this year, but which may be higher or lower. They're still estimates, they're not concrete-cast predictions. So I agree with Mr Azarkan. But the point is, those estimates are sometimes wrong; they were indeed negative over the past year. But two years before that, for 2015 and 2016, they were underrated; then the final result was higher than previously expected. So it's still estimates, there's uncertainty, but it's the best figures we've got at the moment, which are made by our independent calculator, the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u24	In 2017, the mathematicians with inflation were incredibly far off, making more than half of the people afterwards realize that the myth, that they would improve on it, was wrong. And it is indeed Mr Koolmees who recorded that in his annual papers in 2018. But I'm really wondering about this. If you tell the people in the country that 96% are making progress, everyone's happy. I wonder: if this is not the case after a year, is the Minister prepared to compensate somewhere, for example with the 11 billion surplus? 'Cause that's butter with the fish. That's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u25	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u26	In 2017 and 2018, and Mr.Azarkan is right in that respect, the final results were lower than previously expected at Prinsjesdag the year before. In 2015 and 2016 it was exactly the opposite: at that time the realisations were higher than previously expected. That has everything to do with the estimates of wages and inflation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yes, you just explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u28	And in August and September before Princess Day, we're going to talk again about the proposals for the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr President. This minister is a defender of the employee, thezzp'er, the beneficiary. He's the advocate of the labor factor, you might say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u31	So much for the compliments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u32	I can feel him coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u33	So much for the compliments, Mr. Chairman. We also see that the wage for the labour factor has not risen for a long time. The capital factor is. This is partly because the factor capital can draw endlessly from later and elsewhere, if you look at the broad concept of prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u34	And your question is, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u35	And the question is: does the Minister realize that he is competing unequally with the capital factor? Does he even understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u36	That is what you want to have answered during oral Question Time? The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mr Van Raan. Mr Van Raan and I are a big fan of the broad concept of prosperity. As a former member of the committee, I attach great importance to this. I am also very pleased that we are debating this point with your Chamber. But I do not entirely agree with Mr Van Raan on the analysis. If you look at the labour income ratio, i.e. the share of labour in national income, you can see that it is rising again in recent years, especially as a result of a better working labour market, lower unemployment and more people at work, increasing the share of labour in the economy. And if you look historically over the last 30 years, she's back on a normal level. So I do not entirely share Mr Van Raan's analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u38	It is good that we use this concept of 'wide prosperity', because then we also speak in the same language. I think it is rather silly of this minister to take one year, a very short term, and then to raise that labour income ratio in one go. In fact, it has generally been falling for years; that is the main thrust. I suggest that we have an interesting follow-up debate on this. Again, I don't think the Minister realizes he's fighting an unequal battle. And actually, I'd like to help him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u39	I understand Mr Van Raan's question. In fact, I very much agree with him in terms of thinking about broad prosperity. In recent years, however, the labour income ratio has risen sharply. And that's what you see in the CEP, the Central Economic Plan, last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yes, Mr President. I would like to continue on the other side than where Mr Smeulders began. He was talking about top incomes, and I would like to ask the Minister. If we look at purchasing power, is it not the government itself that is partly responsible for this low-income advantage, which means that large companies such as IKEA and the Bijenkorf have every interest in continuing to reward employees as low as possible? I'm just saying, 0.75% increase in wages. Isn't this part of the government's debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u42	There are two sides to this question. The first side is next. My predecessor, Mr Asscher, introduced the low-income advantage, precisely to give people at the bottom of the labour market a greater chance to find a job and to give employers a subsidy to employ people. I think that is a positive development. On the other hand, there is a risk, and I agree with Mrs Van Brenk that it is going to be a sort of trap that does not come out. That is why we also ensure that every year the limits of the low-income advantage, so where you are entitled to that benefit, are indexed with contract wage developments, precisely in order to prevent what Mrs Van Brenk sees as a danger, from happening. So I certainly have an eye for it, and I'm gonna keep an eye on it, because I don't want that low-income advantage to become some kind of prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u43	You can actually see that two groups have benefited. The first are India all those hundreds of thousands of people who have found a job. So that's right. The second group, as Mr Smeulders rightly said, are the bosses of our big companies. I call Shell's boss who gets 20 million; that's not only a multiple of what his employees earn, but it's also more than the entire House of Representatives combined. Is the Minister prepared to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to discuss with the Dutch industry that they are part of our society and that they really fit in with control?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u44	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the thrust of Mr Van Weyenberg's question. These talks are, of course, taking place here in this Parliament too. I'm going to transfer that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you.
