ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u1	This debate, on the Participation Act, is again being held with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and, to a large extent, with the same spokesperson. Mr Van Dijk, whom I saw just now, is the first speaker. He walks in the corridors and I don't think he hears... Oh no, not Mr Gijs van Dijk is the first speaker, but Mr Jasper van Dijk, who is not yet here. We are therefore suspending for a moment because the first spokesperson is not yet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u2	The next item is the report by Mr van Dijk, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the Buma motion (35000, No. 14) strengthens the existing infrastructure and knowledge of the SW;]] [[noting that social work provision is under threat of closure of SOWECO;]] [[calls on the government to engage with relevant municipalities in the efforts to maintain the existing infrastructure of 50 years of SOWECO for the broad target group of the Participation Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas municipalities that do little for sheltered work are still paid for it and that municipalities that show a lot of commitment get nothing extra;]] [[Considering that in 2021 the cover bonus of €3,000 per place will be dropped and the accompanying fee will be reduced by €1,300;]] [[calls on the government to consider how these negative incentives can be reversed in a policy that encourages financially rather than punishing municipalities that accompany many people to sheltered work;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify rapidly the continuation of the sheltered bonus and the accompanying allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with a medical time limit who work according to their ability and are covered by the employment agreement are unable to work more hours because of this restriction;]] [[noting that they are unable to generate sufficient income from wages and therefore need an additional income;]] [[Whereas a supplement from the assistance makes labour restrictions financially dependent on partner or roommate;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to provide an income supplement through a supplement to people who are able to work with a medical hour limitation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-170]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-171]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people on long-term assistance are often not seen and spoken by municipalities for a longer period of time;]] [[Considering that as many as 60% of the people in the assistance are under the assumption that they are relieved of a job application obligation, whereas in reality this applies only to 10% of the people;]] [[whereas this is socially unacceptable;]] [[Considering the need to provide appropriate support to everyone in the assistance for reintegration on the basis of the principle of social activation and to assist them to return to active participation in society;]] [[Whereas, under the principle of reciprocity, people in the assistance should make every effort to actively seek employment or, if this is not possible, to otherwise contribute to their development and society;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to explore within the funds available to municipalities for participation no longer or, in the case of municipalities, to provide people in the assistance with a non-binding offer that suits them, with the social activation for their own development and reciprocity as defined in the current consideration;]] [[Invites the Cabinet to agree, on the front side, with municipalities, on the common task of guiding more people from the assistance to an appropriate offer, taking a broader look at best practices and all social costs and benefits for people in the assistance;]] [[Invites the Cabinet to consider as an offer a job, a learning and reintegration path, an internship, volunteering, a study/language course up to at least level 1F, debt support, care under certain conditions or a route in the current consideration, from which the municipality can make the choice which is considered best suited in the individual case;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to pay particular attention to the situation of single parents with children under 4 years of age;]] [[Finally, asks the Cabinet to inform the Chamber of this matter at the same time as the cabinet response to the evaluation of the language requirement and the consideration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Raemakers, Mr Nijkerken-de Haan, Mr Peters and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u5	It was a very epistle indeed. In Trouw of 16 September, I read an enthusiastic opinion article by Mr Raemakers, in which he quite abhors that paltry consideration which is now simply in that motion and in which he advocates a legal right to help. This motion is asking for something quite different. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u6	Maybe it's good to explain the motion first, because I didn't have time for that in my two minutes. It is therefore a good thing that Mr Jasper van Dijk asks a question about it. As a coalition, we have put our heads together and asked ourselves how we can present to each other a solution that does something for this group of people on this subject, which we think differently about. This also fits in very well with the meeting that was held last week, namely that as political parties you bridge the differences and that you see how we can get on with this social issue. I've made a start on that. Glad Mr Van Dijk read that in daily Trouw. Yes, we have that counterprestate and it's in the law, but we as a party think it's about helping people, helping people who don't have a job and who sometimes don't know what to do and who are in trouble, helping people out of those problems and helping them make a meaningful contribution to society. If there are now municipalities that are no longer helping certain people in the assistance because they think it is no longer worthwhile because they have been in the assistance for five or ten years, that is socially unacceptable. That is what we say you should be much more committed to the right to help. Well, CDA, VVD and Christian Union have their accent. We simply put that together and made a major motion as four coalition parties on how we can help these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u7	I had thought and hoped that Mr Raemakers would take the flight ahead in his powerful, sharp opinion in Trouw on 16 September. That is a solid article and I am now getting a plea or a statement that this wonderful article has been watered down in the back rooms with the four parties. Now the consideration simply stands and the legal right to aid has also expired, I must assume. What a damper!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u8	I do not hear a question, but I would like to contradict what Mr Van Dijk says. Last week, I called for the right to social activation to be made very clear in the law. And so does this motion. This motion says that it is not only about the consideration but also about that right to social activation. This motion says that municipalities have full freedom to see how they are going to help people in the assistance. The motion also says that it is no longer about whether or not we are going to help those people, but that we are going to help them. How municipalities do that then............................................................................................................................................................ So it is true that what I have argued in that document of opinion, namely that municipalities should help everyone in the assistance how they do it, doesn't matter, but please go help people fill in with this motion. We ask the Secretary of State to present this to us simultaneously with the evaluation of the language requirement and the consideration. We hope this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u9	It's nice of you to give us some space, Mr. Chairman. I could not attend the AO myself because of illness, but in the meantime a lot has happened at the coalition. To understand exactly what's going on here, here's what's going on. The motion says that there is a non-voluntary offer to those in the assistance. So that's actually VVD policy with a D66 sauce where we're going to say to municipalities from the Lower House: that's how it works and that's how we're going to fill it out. But when we talk about children in poverty, where a lot of municipalities unfortunately choose not to use these funds, here is always the answer of D66 and the State Secretary: no, no, that is up to municipalities. If we are talking about integration here, we have the same idea from the VVD: harder intervention, which goes beyond municipalities. When it comes to the SW that we are concerned about from the Lower House, the answer from D66 and the Secretary of State is: well, that's to municipalities how they fill it out and if a social work facility disappears, that's decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u10	And your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u11	The question is which side will take D66. Is it the VVD side, which says: we are going to get the people who are new here or take people in welfare and then we are prepared to intervene? Or are we going to intervene in several areas, for example in the SW where things go wrong, for example in all those children in poverty who don't get the money? Because then I see a coherent story and otherwise I just see VVD policy in a D66 sauce.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u12	Look, I will not deny that VVD and D66 have seen that Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA in debates in committee over the past few years have also disagreed on this. I will not deny that, but we have said that we are going to bury the hatchet and that together we are going to make one proposal with which we are really going to help these people. In fact, I hope that you will be able to participate as an opposition party. You can keep discussing for a very long time whether one party or the other is right, but whatever you can do is get you together and say: shall we make a proposal together in which we really improve this? Well, let's get to the point. Mr Van Dijk says that we are restricting the policy freedom of municipalities. That is precisely not the case, because the motion states: "from which the municipality can make the choice which is considered best suited in the individual case." On the contrary, we want all the options described in this motion to be possible, including debt relief, including family care, also a study or a language course, as well as volunteering, where there are still many bottlenecks. We say: it doesn't matter what you offer as a municipality, if you offer anything. I'd like to ask another question. Does the representative of the Labour Party find it social to say to some people in welfare: yes, you've been on welfare for ten years; we're not doing anything for you anymore? Do you think that's social?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u13	I'm getting another question now. What I find social is that we talk to people in welfare about how they stand and what we can do for them. In it, municipalities themselves choose. It is not for nothing that we have all kinds of experiments, about stricter assistance, about regulation-free assistance, which is now being experimented with, because we think: what is the best approach? That's what we're all looking for. I see, and I read the motion as well, that the municipality is making an offer, while the other way around it could be that I, as a welfare worker myself, have long found a way of life with which I can manage, and the municipality might now say: fine, good that you fill it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u14	Actually, I agree. If people themselves have an idea at which association they want to do voluntary work or at which old lady in the street they want to do care for themselves, and then come to the municipality to tell them how they see it and what they want to do, then I would say as a municipality: what a pleasure that you have already thought of it yourself. Fortunately, we now have a motion and a new policy that allows for care and voluntary service. Let's do that; once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u15	A motion is suddenly becoming a new policy. Honestly, I think it's a wonderful motion. It seems more like a kind of paragraph from a new government agreement to be written. I'm wondering one thing. The word'reciprocity' falls into this motion no less than twice or three times, while I have recently understood very clearly that D66 is critical of the consideration. Why does D66 choose to instruct the municipality to take everything out of the closet and offer everything, while a lot of research shows that when people choose themselves, when people come to activity from voluntary and personal choices, that is much more effective than when their things are imposed? D66 has also recently tabled many motions on the use of research based on confidence in people receiving welfare benefits. This is going to be very much on offer and impose something. Why does D66 make this special twist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u16	Well, yeah, I don't really see that as Mr Renkema describes. The things I have just mentioned, volunteering and caring, are not things you can impose on people as a municipality. That's not in return. It is true that my party, which we have also exchanged in the debates, is quite critical of that consideration. When we say "let people who are on welfare but who are doing a gardening somewhere," this does not contribute to the employment rate, because then you're just going to use people to do a bad job. It doesn't work. You have to ask people where their hearts are, what they would like to mean to society. But here's what I'm gonna say. If you ask people what they want to do, they might say: I don't really want to do anything anymore, I sit at home on the couch and I like it that way. That doesn't make that person any better, but I don't think that's fair towards society either. Then I say you can do anything, we want to help you with volunteering, with debt relief, with a language course, but you're gonna do one thing. I think that is a good explanation, as long as it is not that silly work in return; it must be something meaningful. But if people really don't want it, it can also be a consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u17	Mr Renkema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u18	Yes, very briefly. If you have to choose or the municipality decides what someone does or that someone takes control of themselves, then D66 says that the municipality decides what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u19	No, we don't actually say that. We're just saying that everyone has to do something. Now, the municipality of Trouw, which is also the meaning of my speech in Trouw, says to some people: you have been on welfare for so long that we are not going to help you anymore. The four of us find that unacceptable. We believe that the municipality should help everyone, but if anyone has a good idea of how they want to contribute to society, I would say: be my guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u20	Good. Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Renkema on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a slightly shorter motion. We in the group have wondered when you are going to table a motion and what it should be about, not how long it should be. When considering whether you want to file a motion, I personally consider it an important criterion that the adoption of that motion has a direct effect on people's lives. That certainly applies to the next motion. It's about the Participation Act, especially about the confidence experiments in there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the confidence experiments in the Participation Act will cease on 1 October 2019;]] [[noting that people taking part in these experiments are in turn covered by the regular welfare regime;]] [[Whereas this may have negative effects on the participants concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly state to the municipalities concerned that participants in the trust experiment do not need to be treated in any other way, at least until the conclusions and follow-up of the experiments are known,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the employment agreement of the social agreement up to 2018 has already helped nearly 52,000 people from the target group to get a job and that we are on track to achieve 125,000 jobs by early 2026;]] [[noting that many of these jobs are created through postings by social development companies, but that they may be put under pressure as a result of the Labour Market in Balance Act (WAB);]] [[noting that the exception to the WAB payroll provision will apply only to the WSW group;]] [[Whereas these payroll provisions should not be at the expense of those who could or should have been given employment through the employment agreement and sheltered work;]] [[Calls on the Government to present and report to the Chamber, by summer 2020 at the latest, the impact of the payroll provisions on the target group "jobs appointment and sheltered work' by means of a quick scan;]] [[calls on the government to activate the social agreement agreement to open the lowest wage scales if the quickscan shows that the non-exception of this target group at the SAB limits the job opportunities of these groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijkerken-de Haan, Mr Peters and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u23	Actually, this is about social posting, right? There is a chance that the provisions of the SAB would confuse that and that this would no longer be possible. So I want to be specific about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u24	Yes. It's about the concern we have about that. We'll have to address them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u25	Thank you for your contribution. Finally, Mrs Van Brenn has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u26	Mr. Chairman. We have our concerns and there have been people in the debate on social development companies. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with an indication of sheltered work and those with an indication of employment contracts which are not part of the easy-to-intermediate group of workers should not fall between shores;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State particularly appreciates the knowledge and expertise of the SW companies;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the maintenance of social employment in municipalities, the maintenance of knowledge and expertise, as well as guidance to and during work through social development companies within its capabilities, so that more people with disabilities who are still on the side of work can be helped in an appropriate and sustainable job;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-176]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u27	Mr. Chairman. I handed a letter to the Secretary of State from a family from Papendrecht who was concerned about the sustainable employability of a daughter. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State has been able to deal with this letter. I would like a response to that. Because this was such a poignant case the following motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with disabilities who are going to work should be encouraged rather than discouraged;]] [[Whereas it is still too common for people with reduced working hours to decline financially;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to make work pay at all times and to remove obstacles to it;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-177]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u28	I look forward to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u29	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u30	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the report on a general consultation Act on participation. We are ready for the deadline of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, in which she will also give an opinion on the eight motions for resolutions tabled. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I look back at a debate in which we have actually had a very special exchange of views. I look back at the process that has gone through in order to launch a broad offensive and the broad programme to help people with disabilities on their way to work. In fact, we are on the verge of a great deal of decision-making and legislation coming to the Chamber. So it was a very good time for me to try out the opposite of the Chamber and to get various suggestions. We also heard that some things might be able to count on a little enthusiasm and we heard of things that we can put a little bit more effort into. I am therefore looking forward to the various legislative moments that are to come. For now, there are a number of motions. On the subject of the very first motion, in part No. 170, by Mr Jasper van Dijk, we also had a general exchange of views. I advise against this motion, because it is ultimately the municipality that is looking at how it is shaping the implementation of the Participation Act, thereby exploiting the infrastructure of social development companies. I am very much in favour of that, as is well known. But it is ultimately up to the municipalities to determine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u32	Then my question is what was the use of this broadly supported Buma motion? The broad-based motion states that the government must make an effort to maintain that knowledge and infrastructure of those SW companies. Now we have a SW company here in Almelo, SOWECO, that's about to fall over. More than 2,000 people work there with a lot of passion. Are you gonna drop them hard, or are you gonna say, "No, I'm gonna talk to these municipalities?" That's all. That's all the motion calls for. Does the Secretary of State wish to convey the message of the Chamberwide supported Buma motion? That message is: maintain that infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u33	We also had an exchange of views on this during the general consultation, and I would like to take this up here too. There are many layers to this issue. One of them is the organizational form. Apart from that there are knowledge and skills, and there are also regional facilities. Mr Renkema has also tabled motions on this subject, and I shall come back to that at a later date. The Economic and Social Committee has also said that we want to help with this. But this is without prejudice to the fact that people working for a social development company, while retaining their legal status, are sometimes helped by the municipality in another place. Their legal status will remain the same. There are municipalities that go hand in hand with social development companies. The industry organisation, Cedris, shows that social development companies are forming in many variants. It is not for me to express myself on the form, but I must express myself on the preservation of knowledge, skills and experience, the added value. And, of course, I have to comment on the legal status of the people who work there. I've been trying to fill out those cases in the AO. And in the end it is also up to the city council to decide what form one finds best suited to all those functions that one has to organize there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u34	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u35	There's something in between leaving it entirely to the municipality, which the Secretary of State is doing now, and wanting to leave everything to the old. There's something in there. That is what is called for in this motion. It would be brave if the Secretary of State said, "Okay, maybe things are going wrong here with these six municipalities." I'd have a lot of respect for it if she did. It would be courageous if the Secretary of State were to say: I will explain to the municipalities what the idea is about the former SW companies that have been pronounced here in the Lower House by Buma and which have been taken over by the government. Then the Secretary of State can have a conversation. That's all. That's all. Talking. Will you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u36	As much as I like to get respect from Mr Jasper van Dijk, on this particular point I have to say that it is really up to the municipality to choose the form of organisation. I am, of course, talking to Cedris, the sectoral organisation of social development companies, also in a broader sense about all developments. I am, of course, working on the Buma motion and other motions adopted in this Chamber. In doing so, we look at how we can maintain that knowledge, skills and infrastructure. This is different from talking about each specific local organisation, however important an organisation at local level can be. The city council is legally the body that chooses the form of organisation. I don't think it's my job to discuss such a specific local organization. What I do think is important is to balance these issues at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u37	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u38	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 171. Perhaps I can regain some respect from Mr Jasper van Dijk by giving that motion judgment Chamber. I'd be happy to. These are themes that come back to the evaluation of the sheltered work, which will come in the autumn. I would, however, like to say the following about what is stated in the second recital, namely that the accompanying allowance is likely to be reduced by €1,300. I can give the motion judgment Chamber if I do note that this is a budget-neutral shift of resources from municipalities to UWV, in the context of the implementation of the no-risk policy. So that money isn't gone, but it's spent in a different way. With that, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion for a resolution 172 deals with an inquiry into the inclusion allowance. This motion I must advise against. I really think this is a major change in the system, which also has far-reaching consequences for its implementation. I am now working within the framework of the broad offensive. This is something for the longer-term agenda. This is without prejudice to the ongoing work on the partial release of work income for part-time workers, with wage costs subsidies and a right to additional assistance. Thus, working can also be rewarding for them, in accordance with the regulation that is now in place for people with medical hours limitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u39	For the sake of clarity, this is an investigation, not a policy change or a system change. In general consultation, I understood that the Secretary of State had a good ear for that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u40	I have been working with all the ideas that have emerged from the discussions we have had with social partners. I find it transparent to put in the letter what I have heard, but not to do. One of those things is the inclusion fee. I did put it in the letter so that there could be a social debate about it. But an investigation is not something that can be free of charge or without commitment. Right now, I just need all the people and resources to work out the whole package from the broad offensive. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 173 by Mr Raemakers, Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan, Mr Peters and Mr Bruins. If it's a total picture, I'll keep my words limited. What is good about this motion is that it expresses how important it is that people do not stand aside anonymously. In terms of timing, it also fits perfectly with the evaluation of the consideration and the language requirement that comes with it. That's why I'm happy to give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u41	There is an interruption by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u42	Yes, on the evaluation of the consideration. There are experiments going on right now, aren't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u43	That's two different trajectories. There are experiments with a certain timetable, and I shall come back to Mr Renkema's motion. In addition, I have a mandate from the government agreement to hold talks in the context of the language requirement and the consideration to see where improvements can be made. That's two different trajectories.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u44	Okay. This motion actually gives the Secretary of State a direction. Perhaps the Secretary of State can also imagine that we are somewhat surprised, because in the AO there has been a brief discussion about this. I have just read it and now a huge number of directions are being laid down in one go from the coalition parties. It is difficult for us to judge this or to vote on it next week, because we have not had this whole debate together at all. Do you understand? I mean, does the chairman understand? I would like to inform the Secretary of State that I would like a little more clarification from her. How exactly does she point this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u45	I have left the impression to the general discussion... I also believe that there was an interruption debate between Mr Raemakers and Mrs Nijkerken on the consideration or personal development. Then the discussion, which I liked to hear, unravelled that they thought differently, but actually wanted the same thing, namely that people do not remain anonymously on the sidelines. I also read this motion as a reflection of how people found each other in it. I also think that the motion is right to the agenda that I am trying to implement from the coalition agreement. In this Chamber, wider than the coalition alone, it is often said that we find it unacceptable that people are sitting on the couch. If 60% of the people in the assistance think they have an exemption, while 10% of the people have an exemption, then we are all concerned about that. I may have had a few minutes longer to read this motion. As I estimate the motion, I think I can give an answer to this in the evaluation of the consideration and the language requirement, which I hope I will send to the Chamber in the not too long term. I would therefore like to include the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u46	Let me make a comment on the order of business. It is that we have wiped the rest of the agenda, otherwise I would not have allowed everyone to ask another question about this motion. You may ask one more question, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u47	Thank you for that space. It's about exactly how this is going. From the coalition parties, I mean from the Chamber, there are five requests to the Cabinet, to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says: fine, judge Chamber, I will respond to it at a later moment, because that fits better. I think that's a bit of a crazy order. I don't see an assessment here, but it goes beyond one request. This is a very broad request on a number of perhaps fundamental, perhaps less fundamental points concerning the consideration. However, the Secretary of State is now saying: fine, let's do it this way. I find that strange, because that is certainly not a good way to advise my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u48	I always try to look for cooperation in committee, which I also taste when there is a motion. The same applies to Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion from a moment ago on sheltered work. I'd be happy to include them in the evaluation. I'm really looking for ways to do that. In this case, I think the motion is quite logical because I also recognize it from the debate. Then I saw a link between reciprocity and the personal development of people. That doesn't have to bite each other. It can strengthen each other. At least that is how I experienced the debate. I see a number of conditions here, but also a direction. I will come in November with the evaluation on the consideration. I'd like to involve the motion in that. I therefore propose to the Chamber in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u49	Mr Gijs van Dijk for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u50	This is also about municipalities. What does the VNG think? If there are fundamental points, many municipalities are involved. That's normal, too. Then you have to ask everyone and then the Secretary of State gives a direction, so that the groups can make a good judgment, but now I don't know. I'm not gonna find out in a few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u51	I can imagine that there are several stages to a process. Because I think this is important, I consult a lot with municipalities, in different stages. I am now evaluating the consideration and the language requirement. Of course I send it to Parliament and discuss it with municipalities. As a result, we may want to do a number of things differently, or we may continue to do a number of things the same. That always happens, even at the table with the VNG. You will not hear me say that I will have a draft bill on the table next November which will be sent to the Chamber without consultation. However, in the motion I am asked to give a direction in the context of the evaluation. I think I can say on that: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u52	I, too, have difficulty explaining how to do this. We very much want people not to be sidelined. That's what this Chamber agreed on. But it also says in the motion: "... how municipalities can make people in the assistance a non-binding offer..." That's a very broad understanding. Can we assume that this includes such things as education, in the sense that people are working on themselves, or that, if there is an addiction problem, it will be solved first? How am I supposed to read this non-binding offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u53	I do have some work to do. Looking at these requests, I'm also doing this very businesslikely, and this does justice to the discussion about making an offer. I think there was broad consensus on this too. It's about making an appropriate offer. This also reflects the personal development of people. We would like to see that, because then there is a bit of reciprocity in it. One of the groups also made a recognizable sound when it comes to the position of young single parents with children under 4 years of age. If I see the framework of this, given the various observations, then my assessment is that I can do so in the evaluation. Then, of course, I am very interested in the debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u54	Mr Raemakers wants to speak, but I think he wants to respond in particular to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u55	If I may, I would like to make a brief point of order. Mr Van Dijk says that there has been no debate about it. I understand that there may be circumstances which sometimes cause people not to be present at an AO, but we have discussed this very much in general consultation. You can also read that back in the Minutes. In fact, we have already received a commitment from the Secretary of State at the time of the AA that a number of further investigations will be carried out in the Chamber for the budget on the long-term assistance group. I just wanted to pass this on. The claim is that there has been no debate about it, but for that we hold that general discussion in this house. We've been talking about that for a really long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u56	Okay, we're not gonna discuss that any further. Mr. Renkema, did you want to post an interruption? No? Then the Secretary of State continues with the motion in part No. 174.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Renkema's motion on the experiments must be discouraged, because an experiment has a start time and an end time. We've made agreements about that, and I'm sure they're in the law. The experimental period runs until 1 January 2020. That is the moment when the results are mapped out and we can see if there is any reason, for example, to amend the Participation Act. That's why I'm dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u58	I am disappointed; the Secretary of State will understand that. We are always talking tonight about people who are on the sidelines, who are anonymously on the sidelines, but that is not true in this situation. These are people who are involved in these experiments, who may earn a little more, for example, for whom a number of benefits do not apply and who receive a different guidance from the municipality. That goes for Wageningen, Nijmegen and Groningen. Does this mean that next Tuesday, then, it is 1 October that people are simply left to their fate in these experiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u59	I haven't had a feedback myself, but I can imagine that there are some enthusiastic experiences. I can imagine anything. However, since it is a scientific experiment, it is also important to establish this. That's why there's an end to it. At the same time, there is already considerable policy freedom within the Participation Act, especially when it comes to providing services to people, about providing services. I really think it's important to get a good picture of this. In addition, we have really established with each other that this is the end time. I think we should be able to reach a scientific conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u60	Finally, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u61	Shortly. If that policy freedom were there in municipalities, we wouldn't need those experiments. The point now is that research is being carried out. Soon it will become clear that a number of approaches work. Then it's said, like, evidence-based: hey, this approach works. We are now getting the situation that people who work for it now will have to stop doing so from 1 October, that it will probably be found that it is working in a year and a half and that we will continue to do so. I do not think that is a consistent policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u62	I haven't been in this role at the start of the experiments. But the moment you know you're starting an experiment that's finite, I think it must have been part of the consideration that you're going to do this anyway because you want to know what's coming out of it, and that it weighs more than this disadvantage. At least that's how I saw it. I am also very curious about the results of those experiments and whether there are any leads in it to change the law. But I do think it is important that we can simply end the agreements that we have made, which include scientists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u63	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u64	Then there is Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan's motion on the Labour Market Act in balance. I have already indicated in the general consultation that the introduction of the Labour Market Act in balance really poses a dilemma. On the one hand, we are all motivated to the bone and we want to help people with disabilities as quickly as possible and as easily as possible, but we also want them to have good and full-fledged work. Well, there's a field of tension in there. That's what this motion is about. Easier access to work will benefit from cheaper working conditions. But good and full-time work benefits from better working conditions, so that people with disabilities have the same working conditions as their colleagues. In the AMvB which regulates the exception for the WSW target group, the government has already indicated that it wants to monitor the effects of the Labour Market Act in balance. This simply has to do with the fact that that is not yet clear. Then the quickscan mentioned in the motion, which fits into the monitor proposed by the cabinet to get a good view on the possible negative effects. We expect that the financial impact of the SAB will be limited by 2020, that the effects will be small for the time being. Monitoring will therefore take place after the first half of 2020. The fact that I have to discourage the motion has to do with the final passage. Activating the legal provision that employers can take on people who work with wage subsidies at the level of a statutory minimum wage if not all collective agreements have a lowest wage scale is a real option. This has been agreed with the social partners, but I also agreed that I should first consult with the same social partners. That is why I do not recommend this motion, when I can imagine that it can be a strong signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u66	Then I come to Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 176 on social development. For the same reason as Mr Jasper van Dijk, I must advise against this, namely that the municipalities themselves ultimately decide on the design of the implementation. The motion in part No. 177, as far as I am concerned, is extremely good at expressing the motivation behind the broad offensive: to make every effort to make work pay at all times and to remove obstacles to it. I am happy to give that motion judgment, Chamber, because it supports the commitment in the broad offensive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u67	Thank you very much. Finally, I see a question from Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u68	I did not receive an answer to my question concerning the problem and the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u69	Yeah, that's right. We're working on the answer right now. It's quite a complex situation, so we're doing some digging, but we're definitely working on it. Anyone who writes to us gets an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u70	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the treatment of the VAO Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-21.u71	We will be voting on the eight motions tabled next Tuesday 1 October. All I have to do is close the meeting.
