ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and all the other leaders here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u2	I would draw Members' attention to the fact that five Members will make their maiden speech today. After each maiden speech, I will address the speaker briefly, and suspend the sitting after the last maiden speech for congratulations, so at once as a group. I now give the floor to Mr Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today I would like to devote my contribution to the General Political Reviews, including my maiden speech, to the democratic rule of law. My reflections will then focus in particular on the issues of Justice and Security, emigration and asylum, Home Affairs and Social Affairs. But first, I'll tell you why I wanted to decorate it like that. Mr. Chairman. My own party is called Forum for Democracy. It would, of course, be very nice if you would all be deeply aware of the validity of my party's ideology, that you would all know that the world would consist of about 200 sovereign nation states, that those nation states needed borders and that democracy and the rule of law could only develop within the boundaries of that nation state. Anyway, I know, of course, that I cannot assume my own ideology in general. But that's the situation we're all in today. My friends from the CDA Group must live with the fact that we are not all cultural Christians. My friends from the VVD must live with the fact that our colleagues from the SP or the PvdA will find liberalism the wrong ideology. My friends from the PVV will have to live with the fact that many D66 colleagues will not see that Islam is a very different religion from other religions. And my friends from the Animal Party must note that all animal friendliness in our debates will come to an end immediately when we go to the restaurant. That's just the tragedy of modern times. That is the tragedy of diversity. But there is also commonality and that brings me to the real subject of my reflections. The good news begins here, Mr President, because when I looked at the budget chapters and the Throne speech, I immediately noticed that there is always reference to a shared heritage and that no one is questioning it. I have noticed that all these documents talk constantly about the democratic rule of law. In a way, that's quite hopeful. So we also have a shared home; the home of the rule of law. And on that rule of law, I would like to have some general political considerations today. I have heard that these must be general political questions that I can put to the cabinet, in particular to the Prime Minister. Good. Then the first step we must take is that a rule of law is a state. A state is an organization whose purpose is the peaceful coexistence of a group of people, the population, on the territory of that state. That can only be done, I think, if that state has power and authority and can exercise it on the territory of the state. If the state can't, then that state isn't a state. Now from the state to the rule of law. A rule of law is a state that has decided to restrict its own power by law. The rule of law is therefore self-limitation. A rule of law considers itself bound by its own laws. The State is the restriction of anyone else who has the pretence to exercise power in the territory of the State. The rule of law is self-limitation by law. The Democracy Forum believes that a number of challenges will come to us in the coming years. These can be divided into challenges for the state and challenges for the rule of law. I shall now say a few things about these challenges for the state. I hope to return to the challenges of the rule of law in my second term. State and rule of law, that's what matters to me. I'm starting the state now. There has already been a lot of attention in politics for the report De backder van Amsterdam, a reconnaissance of Tops and Tromp's drug-related crime. If you've read that report, you can't really say anything other than that Amsterdam has become some kind of failed state, or perhaps I should say: a failed city. I have the impression that Tops and Tromp's findings didn't really get through until after the murder of the lawyer Wiersum. Only then did the question really descend: whose city is this? If you read all that, it's hard to say that city is the law-abiding citizens of Amsterdam. Drug-related crime is free to go in Amsterdam: drug tourism, a strong increase in xtc, cocaine, amphetamine, liquidations and crime journalists under police surveillance even, 24/7 surveillance. The Telegraph even came up with the message that the mocromafia is carrying out liquidations for Iran. I'll get back to you on that. Our group has taken note of the letter from the Minister of Justice and Security of 11 July 2018, the Minister is here, announcing a package of measures to combat this drug-related crime that undermines society. Our group supports the robust approach of the cabinet, but now the question is: are all these measures, all these new legislation, going to help? My party is deeply concerned not only about the criminal challenge, but also about the culture of tolerance, the lack of willingness to enforce in public institutions. Mayors who, for example, openly declare that they are not going to enforce a burqa ban because this would not suit the city, undermine respect, not only for that measure but actually for the law in general. The Prime Minister wants to distance himself from this culture of tolerance. So that's my first question? Tops and Tromp formulate it very well between the rules when they write: "The Dutch drug problem is at the core that drugs are legally forbidden in a culture of tolerance and more than that. This creates an ideal climate for self-enrichment by criminal groups on an unprecedented scale." If that is true, Mr President, and I think that is true, then we have the core: a culture of tolerance. We are dealing not only with the mocromafia, but also with a problem with ourselves. And that is a cultural problem, which cannot be solved with all the money in the world and not with all the laws of the world; not yet with 100 million, but not with 1000 million. Police chief Akerboom actually explains it very well to my taste when he says: as long as there is demand, there is supply. And that brings me to the question of whether the demand for hard drugs should not be tackled harder. Are these Tops and Tromp right with their somewhat last-stripped conclusion that legal prohibitions in a culture of tolerance are never going to help?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u4	I apologize for interrupting the maiden speech, but I was allowed to. I will limit it very much and ask a very simple question. I very much agree with what Mr Cliteur said. In the Lower House, his foreman, his party, did vote in favour of the weed law. My question is whether that means that it is different in the First Chamber for the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u5	I need clarification, because I see no discrepancy between the First Chamber and the Second Chamber on this point. The culture of tolerated and non-maintaining is an important point of action of my party, as far as I know also in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u6	But the weed law gives room to sell weed legally in a number of cities. Isn't that contrary to what you're warning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u7	What I thought I had put forward here is that once you agree that certain laws apply, those laws must be enforced. That is very often not the case. Very often the kind of idea that the Netherlands was a tolerant country in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries governs and we give the wrong interpretation to the concept of "tolerance" in such a way that a tolerant culture emerges from it. I think that is a very important point that has caused the misery we are in. The government can now develop all the plans it mentions in its letter of 18 July, but they will only really help if we also tackle the cultural problem of tolerance and non-maintainment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u8	Schalk, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u9	Then let my appeal to the Democracy Forum not to give more room to the culture of tolerance by accepting the law of weed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u10	What was the last thing you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u11	By accepting the weed law soon or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u12	That will be on 5 November. Then my colleague will continue to do so. We have a cultural problem. What police chief Erik Akerboom says is true, I think: as long as there is demand, there is supply. That brings me to the question of whether the illegal drugs should not be dealt with harder. This problem is, moreover, much wider in scope. I would like to stress that organised crime and also drug-related crime are a problem facing us as the First Chamber. We control the laws, so to speak, but we should also note that we really need to enforce them. So much for what I would like to say about the criminal challenge for the state. There is a second challenge for the state: jihadist terrorism. I purposely use official government terminology here. The legal framework for combating this is in place, but is it working? Are we successful? The AIVD's 2018 Annual Report notes an increase in incidents with a jihadist, terrorist or radicalist background. The AIVD therefore refers in 2018 to Jawed S., the 20-year-old Afghan asylum seeker, who entered our country through Germany and stabbed two American tourists at the Amsterdam Central Station on 31 December 2018. Think also of the open borders. He was recently sentenced to 26 years by the Amsterdam Court. In his own words, he did so out of revenge because Geert Wilders wanted to organise a cartoon competition in the House of Representatives. Today, by the way, another Pakistani suspect is on trial for the threats to Wilders over those cartoons. That brings me to the following questions. Now I really come to my questions, because these were still considerations. Now come my general political questions. One. Does the Prime Minister think that the EU's open border policy has made us more resilient or vulnerable to terrorist attacks? You understand, we think more vulnerable, but we like to hear his vision. Two. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the impact of the Marrakesh immigration pact will make the Netherlands more vulnerable to people like Jawed S. and Junaid I.? Third question. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that due to the uncertain situation in Syria there is justified fear of an outbreak of IS terrorism? Fourth question. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that these IS terrorists have about the same world view as that Jawed S. and Junaid I. I referred to before? Fifth question. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we have not made any significant progress in curbing jihadist terrorism over the past 20 years, taking 9/11 2001 as the reference date? Sixth question. Does the Prime Minister agree that countries such as Pakistan, in which the Dutch flag is openly burned and where threats to the leader of the opposition in the House of Representatives, Mr Wilders, should not at least be held accountable? Why hasn't that happened yet? Or did I miss it and something happened in the field of silent diplomacy? Of course I can, but then I'd love to hear it. Seventh question. For the ministries of Education, Culture and Science and of Social Affairs it is also important that there is a task here for Dutch education? Isn't it true that every travelling Syrian is a walking evidence or a traveling evidence, can you say about the failure of our integration policy, or of a failing school system in a sense? A transfer of democratic values? We are confronted in Amsterdam with the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. NRC Handelsblad and Nieuwsuur recently reported on salafistic schools: 30 no less, 30 educational places where salafistic education is given, where children are taught to turn away from the Netherlands. Those children are told that people with different beliefs or beliefs deserve the death penalty. Imagine that! Why are Articles 137c and 137d of the Code of Criminal Law on inciting hatred and violence not even used here? There we have real examples of inciting hatred, discrimination and violence on the basis of faith, or in this case, non-belief from another group, I would say. The performance of the Hofstad group from 2004 is about 15 years ago. But should we not acknowledge that we are dealing with an unsolved problem? Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that if the AIVD finds in 2018 that the jihadist threat is still present in Western Europe, it would be better to say that in the twenty years that have passed since 2001, the Dutch government has not succeeded at all in getting this problem under control and that the situation is now worse than ever, partly due to international migration movements? This weekend, De Telegraaf came to me and I already referred to it with the message that the fugitive criminal Ridouan Taghi would have been taken into protection by Iran. Taghi would have helped Iran with liquidations in Europe, including in the Netherlands. That's how the mocromafia flows into jihadist terrorism. If the government should not announce sanctions against the Iranian state, then the question is then. Mr. Chairman. So far I have talked about the state, about the monopolistic organisation of the compulsion and a number of challenges for the Dutch state at the moment. A state that fails here fails in its core task. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Mr President, I would like to leave it at that as far as the state is concerned. Soon, in my second term, I will return to the challenges of the rule of law. I would also like to say that the Forum for Democracy is in solidarity with the builders and farmers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Cliteur, there's been an interruption by Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u14	I have waited until the end of the speech, because interfering in a maiden speech remains a bit of a cursing in this Chamber. We agreed to that in a few minutes. Mr Cliteur started by saying that I am going to consider the democratic rule of law. Then I thought: this man is in his place, because we have been holding major policy debates on the democratic rule of law for a number of years in a row, and with effect, I think. But then I only heard Mr Cliteur talk about two very serious problems, the drug mafia and jihadism. Are there any other issues for the Democracy Forum that play a role when we talk about the democratic rule of law? Otherwise, it's gonna be really skinny. I refer, for example, to the rights of our citizens, the democratic rights of our citizens, the threat to the rule of law and to the independence of the judiciary, and all these things. Can Mr Cliteur also give some consideration to this, because otherwise, frankly, I do not know what the Forum for Democracy meant when he said: I am going to talk about the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr Cliteur can fill a whole lot of other problems with the democratic rule of law for a long time to come. I have tried to focus on the basis of the state in the poor 14 minutes that we have been given for the first term, and that is the monopolistic enforcement of the compulsion. I have noted that there are two major challenges at the moment: on the one hand, the mocromafia, which I have done in response to the Tops and Tromp report, and on the other hand, the fact that jihadist terrorism is still not under control. I think I've got two very important things to do with that. There are, of course, other things that you could argue, but I do think that these are very important challenges. That's why I've said so much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u16	But should we wait until the second time to hear the reflections of the Forum for Democracy on the problems of care and education, the problems of nitrogen and CO? All that sort of thing is less of a priority than the drug mafia and jihadism? Those are big problems, but they are not everything else that determines this fine society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u17	A brief answer, Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u18	I am going to disappoint Mr Kox very much, because even in my second term I will not talk about the things he would like to hear about. You can rest assured that in the coming period we will be taking part in interventions... We are going to discuss a number of things again on 5 November. Soon the General Financial Reviews will come and a lot of things will be discussed. But to keep a little order in the argument, I have not listed a whole series of Forum for Democracy action points in the few minutes available to me here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Kox, last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u20	It is still nice that those with the most speaking time complain that they have so little speaking time. I think you have 18 minutes, and you can say a lot of things. I've had the experience that this could happen in the past. Yet the question remains whether the Forum for Democracy presents itself here at the first General Political Reviews as not a one-issue but a two-issue party: crime and jihadism. Or can we really expect more from a party with such a beautiful broad name, the Forum for Democracy, when it comes to the real problems in our democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr. Cliteur, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u22	I think that is a rhetorical question from Mr Kox and of course he understands that he has more to expect from our party on these issues. They now joined a little less with the problem of how to maintain the monopolistic compulsion on the territory of the state. Hence these two examples, but rest assured, the others will certainly be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u23	A quick question. You said that the laws must be enforced and enforced. That is an interesting statement, but your last words were: 'and we agree with the farmers'. Does this also mean that you think that the ruling of the Council of State on nitrogen should be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u24	In principle, judgments must of course be enforced. When I say that we agree with the farmers, I mean that we understand the protest. We believe that they have a number of legitimate claims on the table, but ultimately the word of the judge is sacred. Of course, all the rules must also be observed in the protests themselves. We cannot, of course, destroy the state itself. Respect for the laws is of enormous importance. At a time when respect for the laws is no longer there and people are going to take illegal action, this must be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u25	Sure, it's not about illegal actions either. I am more concerned that you now say 'in principle it should be done'. That's the first nuance you've made. I'm just looking for a little consistency in the reasoning, because that helps me to judge your plea. I understand you in such a way that you say that the judgment of the Council of State also applies to the Urgenda judgment, as the judge has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u26	Certainly, Mr Rosenmöller understands well. I believe that the laws should be implemented and that the judicial interpretations of those laws should also be implemented. But that does not change, which brings me to an important point, that you also have the right to protest against certain judgments. It's not gonna happen enough. I will say something about this later on in the second term. What I find very unsatisfactory, for example, is that the Wilder process is not being discussed now and that it is happening with the argument that it is under the courts. I think that's very misleading. It is a political persecution and it has a political responsibility to do so and it must be possible to do so. You just need to be able to question court decisions. This applies to statements made in the context of the Wilder Process, but also to the Urgenda statements and, of course, to the decision of the Council of State on the nitrogen issue. You can argue about that, and you can protest against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u27	Third and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u28	I think it's clear. I am the first to agree with you that, even when it comes to a judgment, you should be able to demonstrate against it in a free country. However, I note that you believe that the Urgenda judgment should be enforced and that you believe that the ruling of the Council of State on nitrogen should be carried out. That's a clear statement, and a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u29	In the end, you'll always have to execute the judge's rulings, but you can protest against them. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u30	I would like to go even further on what has just been mentioned. We saw this week in the peasant protests that the farmers also moved to the RIVM. The scientists of the RIVM were threatened. As a fellow professor, it must be an abomination for you to see that scientists are increasingly threatened and that independent science is in danger. How do you assess these actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u31	There are two things. "Actions" is a broad term. You have the right to demonstrate and you also have the right to question the calculation method of RIVM. You have that right in science, and farmers also have the right as experts of experience to question it critically. They can move out with their equipment, of course within the limits imposed by public order. I think the mayor has a leading role to play in assessing what is and is not permitted. Eventually, there is also constant discussion in science about these things. You hear people say you have to join a majority view in science. My point is, if that had happened, you'd never have a Darwin, Newton, and Einstein. Sometimes minority views are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u32	You are now going to take a very postmodern position by saying that we can actually question all the scientific results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u33	Oh, postmodern!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u34	In logical science something is simply true or not true, but in empirical sciences it is ultimately overwhelming probability. At some point you should be able to conclude that something overwhelming is true, for example statements by planning agencies about global warming. These are often called into question. As a fellow scientist, you have to have a problem with that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Cliteur, one final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u36	I regret to say that that is overwhelmingly incorrect. There are very few overwhelming truths in science that are not overturned by later developments in science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u37	So much for the philosophy of science. Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u38	Then I'll ask you a slightly simpler question. You mentioned in your speech the importance of good education for children and that it often goes wrong when children receive poor education. You also know that there is a considerable shortage of teachers and has been occurring for a long time. Do you agree that this shortage of teachers needs to be addressed and that structural investment is also needed, for example by equalising the pay gap between special education and secondary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u39	In general, I think that this lack of teachers is serious and that it deserves our attention. I would like to make the point that I have the hope of putting my finger on the fact that in the transfer of value to the so-called Koran or Sharia schools something goes seriously wrong, because the children there are indoctrinated with a very negative attitude towards the Dutch society in which they will have to function later. This is not helped by more teachers, but by letting the teachers who are there be aware of the principles of the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u40	I have heard that part of your speech, but the point is that there are good teachers with good pabo-training and that students in higher education also opt for the teacher class. I am sure that the pabos and universities will also be taught about the democratic rule of law. That requires a structural investment. Does your party agree that we should make that effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Cliteur, the last one at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u42	I've been teaching at the University of Leiden for 30 years. That is the walking proof of the fact that I have a very warm heart for this part of our society. This also applies to pabo-education and primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u44	First of all, I would like to compliment Mr. Cliteur on his wonderful contribution, a relief in this house. Of course, we have been here for eight years alone on the position on Islam and such matters. Chapeau! I do have a pressing question about this. Mr.Cliteur indicates that the difference between PVV and the Forum for Democracy is that PVV does not see Islam as a religion, such as Christianity or Judaism. Then Mr Cliteur talks about jihadist terrorism, which is a threat to the democratic rule of law. Then my question to him is: are there other religions that are also a threat to the rule of law in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u45	An interesting question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u46	A brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u47	That is in the book The monotheistic dilemma of 400 pages and I am now going to try to sum it up in two words. What I've been trying to do with my maiden speech is to connect to more or less common terminology. The "democratic rule of law" we all share was the first term in which I did so. Secondly, I have tried to do so by simply taking over the term "jihadist terrorism" from the AIVD and saying: look, government, this is your own AIVD. There's this, and that's a problem you still can't control. Does that idea of this holy war, which Mrs Faber refers to, also exist in other religions? Yeah, that's what you find in other religions, including Christianity. Christianity in the 16, 17 and 18 centuries was a very different Christianity from what we are faced with today. Think of the term "culture Christianity" that I have just told my friends from the CDA. That's different, because there the holy war is no longer preached. The problem is that within Islam we are now faced with certain radicalised currents that have not yet renounced that violence. That is a big problem for our schools, think of those Koran schools that I have just mentioned. But it is also a problem for our young people who travel to Syria and then possibly, I hope not, come back here again to put things in order by, among other things, shooting at the leader of the opposition in the House of Representatives, actually your leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mrs Faber, would you like to make a brief comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, but I can actually conclude from this that there are no other threatening religions for the rule of law than Islam. There is, of course, a big difference between Islam and other religions that are currently present here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u50	You're right about that. I am somewhat reluctant to make general statements about Islam as such. But in any case, Islam has a radical variant, advocated by al-Baghdadi, who has just fortunately escaped us and those kind of people. That is a huge danger. So I would like to mention that as the danger of radical Islam, of political Islam, of jihadist terrorism. I therefore remain close to the government and to the AIVD as far as my terminology is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u51	Then I must say one more thing from the heart, because Islam is Islam. Within Islam, we have Muhammad, the perfect man, the example for every Muslim. I don't know any Muslim who renounces Muhammad's life, who rapes, who kills, who had slaves, subjugated several women and everything. That's the perfect human for every Muslim. There are moderate Muslims, but there is only one Islam, with one Sharia and one Koran and one perfect man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mrs Faber. You will also have your own input later, so I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Cliteur on his maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u53	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u54	You studied philosophy and law in Amsterdam, respectively at the UvA and at the VU. Those two studies keep coming back in your life. We actually saw and heard that again today. From 1995 to 2002, you were a professor of philosophy at Delft University of Technology. Since 2002 you have been professor of encyclopedia of law at Leiden University. A large number of us have met you via the newspaper or television, as a columnist in daily Trouw and on television at Buitenhof. Regularly you wrote and write opinion papers in weekly and daily newspapers. You are also the scientific director of the Metajuridica Institute of Leiden University. The metajuridica study the law from an external perspective, as in your case from the philosophy. I imagine that you are now taking the perspective of politics into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u55	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u56	You already did that in the book Dirk Verhofstadt wrote about you in 2012. In it you say: "The great question of political philosophy or state theory is 'how can citizens find a modus vivendi within the borders of the national state?'" That is a question that we all ask here in this Chamber with some regularity, in different terms. Especially during General Political Reviews like today. Your political leader met you when he asked you to be his promoter. Before you got involved in the Forum for Democracy in 2015, you were active with two other political parties: the VVD and the Party for Animals. At the Forum for Democracy, you will be a member of the council of opinion and chairman of the Renaissance Institute of the Party. Bertrand Russell, who influenced your work I understand, once said that "the greatest challenge for thinkers is to formulate the problem in such a way that a solution is possible." I believe that is exactly what you are trying to do here as a thinker politician. I wish you every success in that. Once again, welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u58	I now give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma-Lebbink on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. May I begin by warmly congratulating Mr Cliteur on his maiden speech? There were many elements in his speech that we could very well agree with. I also take the liberty of congratulating Mrs Vos, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Otten and Mr Gerbrandy in advance, otherwise I will not be able to do so in public. Finally, of course, I would also like to congratulate Mr Snel on his birthday. Fantastic. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the rich budget, but, of course, we are talking about much more than that. The General Political Reviews actually Mr Cliteur has shown that his traditional time to raise the level of abstraction of the political debate. Society is changing, the political landscape is changing. We can only see that when we look around here in this room today. And yet, in the midst of all that, the function of this Chamber is unabatedly important. Because in a fragmented political landscape, where compromises are always needed, the testing of feasibility is more important than ever. And let that be just a task of the senate. Mr. Chairman. The conversation about politics has long since stopped being held alone in this house or across the street. Part of this changing society is a high degree of involvement of the electorate, an urge of many people to have more participation. Maybe not in the traditional sense, the number of members of my own party is steadily falling, but people want to talk. Online or offline, the discussion is being held and that is a good thing. Our job is to continue to explain what we are doing and what we are doing, and perhaps even more, why we are not doing something. Snapping the political landscape and changing majorities also means more compromises. And although we have elevated poldering to art in the Netherlands, too complex legislation is not what the Dutchman is waiting for. I am asked regularly why we do not introduce a threshold for voting in this country. That would make politics much clearer. And indeed, that thought occurs to me every now and then, of course. But that thought quickly disappears when I look at the United States, or at Great Britain, to countries where one party rules. Can I say that the system in countries such as the US and France, where presidents have very large mandates, does not always lead to decisions that can be supported? In fact, some presidents don't even seem to be looking for support. We believe in the compromise, but, of course, we also occasionally go a little further on to the other side. The poldering is sometimes difficult to explain. I would just like to give you an example of the climate tables. Its aim is wonderful: to bring everyone to the table and to develop a broad climate approach supported by political, civil society and business. And yet I suspect that if Minister Wiebes had known how the trial would go, he might have chosen a slightly different form after all. Anyway, there is now a package of measures that will allow us to pass on our earth a little cleaner, and we will not stop there. On average, we have elevated the compromise to a large form of art and, ultimately, decisions are made that are based on broad support. We need that broad support, especially now that the coalition does not have an automatic majority. However, if the past Cabinets have taught us anything, then it is that the o-so-Dutch compromise is always found by this Prime Minister and that the e.g. the Netherlands is constantly pushed forward. Even so far that, according to the World Economic Forum, we are number one in Europe and number four worldwide. I can still hear some opposition parties screaming that we were ruining our economy. On the contrary, our economy is thriving like never before. There have never been so many people working in our country and the number of people living in poverty is falling. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is now looking further ahead and has indicated its intention to set up an investment fund with the aim of pushing the economy forward in the long term. What is the situation and can the Prime Minister take us back into consideration? Just because we're on the right lists doesn't mean the country's finished. Of course, there are still a lot of challenges. We need to build, build, build to solve the housing shortage. But in order to do that, we need, among other things, to put an end to the nitrogen crisis. We must pay attention to the farmers, because it cannot be that the measures are disproportionate to them. Those people, who stand up daily before day and dew, deserve our appreciation and at least a more constant government policy when it comes to agriculture. Complex problems will continue to arise. In varying majorities, solutions will become at least as complex. So what we will have to guard against is making policies unnecessarily complicated. The fact that we do not actually have large parties anymore and that there does not seem to be an end to the fragmentation also leads to more and more complicated political compromises. In the past, you could come to a compromise with two or three parties in which parties recognized themselves and that you could also explain to your own supporters, but that becomes a lot more complicated if you need four, five or six parties to do so. Here in this House, we have the clean task of weighing that compromise and voting in favour of its feasibility. And that is becoming increasingly important in this context. A few months ago, there was a law in this Chamber that demonstrated exactly how a complicated compromise can have an undesirable and unfulfilled outcome. I'm talking about the asbestos bill. We all agree that asbestos is very nasty stuff and that it can make you very sick. That is why a ban was announced. But if you find that there is only a limited number of asbestos removers, that the demands for clean-up are sky high and that the demands for entrants on that market are about the same, then you are creating a very undesirable situation. Individuals and companies have to remove their asbestos, but are on a waiting list for months and then pay themselves blue. The whole process is so viscous that the end date cannot even be reached. In the execution, so many parties have had something to say that the outcome was unworkable. The law that would seal that has rightly rejected the previous Senate in our view. We'll get those kinds of examples more often. Not because someone in our Binnenhof is out to make a bad law, but because the compromise, although essential in our system, can go through something ugly. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has now come up with an alternative which I hope will really help people. At what time can we look forward to these new measures, if we can already see them? I am convinced that in a number of areas this can lead to too complex solutions. I myself find how we deal with our tax system an ugly example of that. We look at the purchasing power figures, the distribution between categories of people, the distribution between age groups, and of course we try to solve everything through our tax system. The tax authorities can't handle it then. Then we get angry about that and then we come up with something new, which is more complicated. In its opinion on the Millions note, the Council of State spoke wisely about how to shape successful transitions in a fragmented society. They advocate a very careful preparation and clear choices on the front. This preparation should start with an adequate problem analysis and consideration of policy instruments based on relevant available knowledge and facts. The RvS quotes: "It is important that an overall assessment is made so that consideration can be given to possible tensions between objectives." They mention as examples the tension between income protection and promoting employment or the tension between stimulating the economy and protecting the environment. Another example mentioned by the RvS is the shortage of employees in some sectors of the public sector, such as the shortage of teachers in education. The fact that too little can be taught to our children is a problem. Would more teachers solve the problem? Yeah, but it would also help if we could seduce teachers to work less part-time. We also know that about 50% of all primary school teachers work less than 0.8 fte. Our picture is also that the workload in this sector is partly caused by the many transfer moments. Individual teachers report that, but only a single dome wants to burn itself about this. So could a targeted increase in wages not make much more sense? An ex ante analysis. We must therefore take these elements into account in the comprehensive consideration that the Council of State describes. Then, together with other parties, we will have to look for solutions. We can't miraculously open a can of teachers tomorrow, but we can find solutions together. This house is the final piece of the Dutch polder compromise. That's how I see our Senate. And in the current political climate, where compromises will have to become more complex to do justice to all the parties involved that are needed for majorities, that conclusion is more necessary than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u60	I am pleased to hear that the VVD also considers the lack of teachers an important problem. Does the VVD think that you can be a earner with a salary from primary education and that you can work full-time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u61	If you're working full-time, you can. I know examples of situations where that is so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u62	Do you know the cost of living and living in the Randstad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u63	I know them better than anyone, because I live there myself. By the way, I live in a municipality where a lot of teachers and teachers live who work in the other city next to us. They can live right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mrs Vos, your third and final interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u65	Do you know the complaints of the group PO in action that you can barely live off a teacher's salary in primary education and especially if the rent is at least €1,500?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u66	We are now having a very detailed discussion about the cost of living in the Randstad, while we are talking about the total deficit in education. To be honest, I think this is a subject where my Lower House Group is undoubtedly going to have a lot of debates with the Minister for Education. Then we will see the legislation, if it comes, in this Chamber. I am referring to the fact that we also need to see whether the problem analysis at the front is so good that we can also get legislation out of it that is of such quality that we can say yes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u67	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u68	I'll try one last question. Do you find the difference in salary between someone who works in primary education and someone who works in secondary education right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u69	Yeah, you can have a discussion about that. I'm not saying it's wrong in advance. There are many reasons why it may be justified in some respects. I'm sure you'll find something else. That doesn't mean anything about the salary. Moreover, I do not think that any increase in salaries will lead to more teachers in any way. I've let go of that thought a long time ago. Too often that has been a reason to think about salaries. There are other things that have to be done. I really think you need to figure out how to make it more attractive to work a few more hours. I'm really sorry that for too many people in education education is a job you do for a few hours. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u70	Please continue your speech, Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. The political debate is alive, not only here but fortunately also on the streets and on the Internet. The need for greater involvement in this discussion led us to ask Mr Remkes, I simply said 'we' because we have given the start to lead a state committee with the task of examining whether our parliamentary system is still working properly and whether it is future-proof. It was, of course, ultimately done by the cabinet. I am very grateful to Mr Remkes and his committee for this and hope that together with these recommendations we can indeed work towards a future-proof system in which people feel heard and involved. However, part of these recommendations has already been watered down and put into a legislative proposal. I am referring to the legislative proposal which ensures that constitutional changes should be dealt with at second reading by the united assembly of both chambers. And although it is unusual, since the bill in question is still under consultation, I can give a hint of the veil as far as my group is concerned. We will not approve any proposals restricting the position of the Upper Chamber, our Upper Chamber. Because, like the Council of State, when we ask for a change of people because laws change, we have to make sure that that change is easy for people and that it can fit into their lives. And let that be the core task of the First Chamber: to test for the feasibility of laws. Quite rightly, the Council of State is calling for attention to be paid to this. Mr. Chairman. In the coming parliamentary year, my group looks forward with interest and enthusiasm to the debates on legislation and regulation in many key policy areas. I will mention some of them. Exploring the possibilities of implementing the agreed pension agreement in a responsible manner, avoiding unnecessary reductions in pension benefits. Simplifying the tax system and, of course, regulating box 3 in order to achieve a more equitable and balanced tax on the yield achieved. Implementation of the Climate Agreement with measures and initiatives that effectively address CO emissions. My group is really curious as to how the government proposes to achieve a CO-neutral economy without the economic growth needed to finance the agreement. Many studies and scientists are convinced that without the use of nuclear energy this can hardly be achieved responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u72	I would like to go back to the previous section in which Mrs Jorritsma commented on the constitutional reform and she already gave a hint of the veil. My question is: does the same appreciation of her for the election of the First Chamber apply? That is the same issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u73	We are positive about this, but I have already said so. I even think I said it during my previous General Reviews, but that was, of course, in the previous period, not of the Cabinet, but of the First Chamber. We have argued earlier to go back to what it was like for sometime in the 1980s.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u74	Perhaps we should discuss this later, but that has a lot of consequences, especially since there have been a number of changes in recent years which at least make it more difficult for small parties, for example the disappearance of the list links and the retention of the largest averages. Mrs Jorritsma has today argued that it is important that there is proportionality in this Chamber. Is she prepared to take this into account in her early vote for a change in the election, already mentioned in the previous General Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u75	I did the latter because I would be sorry if such a law, which would have been dealt with nicely in the House of Representatives and might even be able to count on a single majority, did not come through. That is why I must make it clear how we feel in the First Chamber. The other bill you are talking about, of course, concerns a matter which must first be dealt with by the Cabinet and the House of Representatives. I know in what elements that will be reflected in the bill that will eventually reach our Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u76	Last one, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u77	Obviously, Mr. Chairman. Does this mean that Mrs Jorritsma at least agrees with my group that such legislative proposals can be better dealt with after the report of the Remkes Committee has been discussed in the Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u78	I honestly don't know. The Remkes Committee's report is not something you say: we are going to have a big debate on once and then we know exactly which legislation should and should not be done. I think it is a process and that parts of what the state committee has written down will be translated into legislation every now and then. Some things will have to wait for elections. Some parties will want to include things in their election programme that other parties will not want to include in their election programme at all. That is how it works with the results of this state committee, I think, because quite a lot of things are also subjects that are considered politically differently. The state committee was therefore very wide-ranging.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u79	Then we'll go to Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u80	I would like to ask Mrs Jorritsma the following. In fact, I just want an explanation of two words she used: 'wide support'. That struck me a little bit. I imagine you don't think you should go with the farmers and the builders, but at the moment there is no broad support? There are huge protests in the country. We have just found that people who generally do not protest go to RIVM with their tractors. Our colleague from D66 has asked me a little more about that. There's a huge discontent in the country. Then I don't even have to talk about what I've been talking about in my own maiden speech. I don't see the broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u81	I still think that everyone is still very happy that most people are at work. I also think that everyone is very happy that poverty is falling in this country. There's broad support for that. I think there is great satisfaction about a lot of things we do in this country. And yes, there are still a number of serious problems, for which you will have to try to find the broadest possible support. Today, therefore, that support is always wider than the coalition. You'll always have to look for major majorities. I still believe that wherever you can do it, you need to find the broadest possible support. That will not always be the case that all parties are in favour. No, I wish it were so beautiful. But politics is also in favour of highlighting differences. Eventually you have to do it with majorities, in this case on both sides of the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u82	I had the impression that Mrs. Jorritsma was coming to the end of her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u83	I'm... Just a few more. One more thing, one more subject, well, subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u84	What I'd like to discuss with her is this. She has put a great emphasis on the importance of compromise in Dutch politics. I think that's totally justified. The compromise is always based on principles of one party and principles of the other. The remarkable thing about the debate in the House of Representatives was that there was a shift of principles. That's what I thought, and many of them found it with me in the media. For years Mrs Jorritsma's party was harnessed in the idea of neoliberalism: less government and more state. In fact, this seemed to be abandoned by her party in the debate in the Lower House. That really means something for the compromise. I'll take that as a turn to the left, let me put it this way. Whatever you call it, Mrs Jorritsma's party also distanced itself from positions she had previously adopted. Does that also apply to the group in the Upper Chamber or are we dealing with two VVDs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u85	I would almost tend to ask the counter-question whether it is also true for you that you do not hold on to your well-balanced views.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u87	Okay, then there's talk. Let me say what my party is discussing, something I am very pleased about. We have liberal goals and we are very keen to achieve them. We are still in favour of a liberal state. We also believe that people should be able to make their own choices as much as possible and where that can be done. But sometimes you have to choose to use a non-liberal instrument to achieve a very nice liberal goal. This means that state intervention is sometimes accepted by us, precisely because we think that the underlying objective is better achieved if the state plays its role better. In this sense, we are undoubtedly looking at things differently today than we had done a great many years ago. Sometimes we were a little too optimistic about what people themselves could do. Now we're looking at the target a little bit more. We think that is the most important thing. If we have to do this occasionally with a compromise on the front, sometimes a compromise that is politically enforced and sometimes because we think that the goal will be better achievable, we will do so. In that sense, we are not shifting to the left, because we remain as liberal as I-know-what, but we are going to check once in a while whether the resources were the right means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u88	There's nothing wrong with a good liberal, my colleague Van Raak would say across the street. That is also true, because liberals can go in all directions, including the right direction. I'm very happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u89	That's very nice in a country where so many people all have different opinions. The Liberal will never say that he has the solution in his hands. And I'm really glad we find that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u90	And that is why I am so pleased with Mr Jorritsma's statement, because the Liberal would never impose a single solution. The neoliberals we have had in office for the last ten years have done so. They said: we need less government and more market, and we are going through it everywhere, even against better knowledge. I am very pleased that Mrs Jorritsma says that thinking is also developing in the largest liberal party in the Netherlands and that it is also moving, not to the left, but to the idea that under conditions a stronger government, a stronger public sector and a stronger community are important to achieve what we want to achieve together. I think this is a gain from this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u91	If I may respond briefly; I have never felt a neoliberal. I still think that where the market can solve something, the market should do so. I think that where people can make their own choices, they have to do so, not only because they think so, but because I think it is important that people sometimes have to make their own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u92	I'm going to see Mr Van Rooijen, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Jorritsma is actually making a nice little bridge to my interruption saying that the liberal does not always have the solution. She used two words just before the end of your speech: unnecessary reductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u94	Besides, I think I said something else, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u95	Unnecessary discounts. My question is this. Do you not agree with 50PLUS that all discounts are unnecessary and unnecessary, given that the yields have been 7% over the last 30 years, that this year's yields are 15% to 20% in three quarters and that pension funds' assets have increased by 200 billion this year, 200 billion? Then you will say: yes, but we have an arithmetic interest rate that is about zero and a standard of 0.1% that is also about our arithmetic interest rate. Do you agree with me that, especially with regard to the pension agreement, you should not cut it unnecessarily now and that all discounts should be cancelled, including with a view to the further negotiations on pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u96	I don't agree with you there that easily. If it were that easy, there would have been a proposal that everyone could agree on a long time ago. It's really a little more complicated than that. It is about solidarity between people who currently have a pension and those who need it in the future. There are great differences between the funds, very large differences. It's about the question of which system we're actually going to. Will it be a collective system or will it become much more an individual system? As the latter is more the case, the solutions will be a little easier to find than when the latter is the case. In short, it's very complex and I'm not going to say here "well, I totally agree with you; well, Mr. Koolmees, why don't you have a little chat; all the discounts off the table and solve it nicely." No, it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr. Van Rooijen, last on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u98	That wasn't the suggestion I wanted to wake up. I am glad, by the way, that you did not say 'no' clearly. So we can keep thinking together. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u99	That always seems good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u100	My question is, however, following your response: what do you think, apart from the fact that we as 50PLUS have this view, of the fact that 60 men and women scientists, 30 professors, a number of politicians and the former director of the planning agency and De Nederlandsche Bank have said that you should not only look at the calculation rates of zero but also at the returns and whether you can find a combination of market interest and return? Would it not be an idea, they say, to set up a committee that can deliver a sensible opinion on this very quickly? What do you think of that suggestion, so apart from my party's position? We are now supported by many, at last. I've been screaming in the desert for a long time, but I haven't felt that way in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u101	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u102	I've seen that, of course. By the way, I have also heard about as many opposite sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u103	That was 20!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u104	So the numbers are decisive? In short, it is far too complex to quickly come up with a nice solution here. I wish Mr Koolmees an extraordinary strength in the search for a really good solution which can also be a structural solution. So don't do something quick that we're gonna regret in the future. My kids are at an age that it's gonna take them a long time to retire. But I hope that they will eventually be able to grow to a pension of a decent size.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u105	Mr. Van Rooijen, last time at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u106	Short. Do you take the 60's advice seriously? Don't you take that off with "there are 20 who think differently"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u107	Any advice is serious, but seriously doesn't mean I accept it automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u108	Mrs Jorritsma pointed out that the VVD still supports the liberal values. That's good. She says herself "I'm as liberal as I know what." I think it's crazy here. 'Cause I didn't expect that at all. I come to the question about the prevention agreement. Your party participates in this government that comes with a prevention agreement. It didn't appear in your election program. Your party did come up with it anyway. How can you, as a liberal, as a real liberal, interfere with other people's way of life? That's not liberal at all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u109	Well, actually, I've already given the answer to one of the previous interruptions. We have come to the understanding that you sometimes have to use a non-liberal instrument to achieve a liberal goal. A liberal goal is also a healthy society. If we can contribute to people's healthy behaviour, we must do so above all. As far as we are concerned, as little as possible through all kinds of prohibitions and things like that. But agreements on this are of course fine. They're all good. You have to do it wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u110	In fact, I can conclude that you think people are too stupid to decide for themselves what they eat, move or whatever. Then you can say that sometimes you do not have to be liberal in order to get liberal positions through, but that is actually just dictatorial. You're going to tell me to eat less meat, I need to move more and I need to drive less. That's really not liberal. That's dictatorial. The SP is nothing! It does not consider the prevention agreement to go far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u111	I'm not SP. I do not think that the prevention agreement does not go far enough. Maybe I think it goes a little far on some points, but that is not the question. There is no provision in the prevention agreement for you to stop eating meat. And that's a good thing, because I like a piece of meat. I'm not a vegetarian. Maybe I'll eat more than healthy for me... Well, not these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mrs Jorritsma, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u113	It's getting very personal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u114	Yeah, or I might go too far, that's true. But living a healthy life is very nice. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about one law: the Environment Act. That is a very complicated law, but it is a law where provinces, municipalities and water boards that have to implement it, like the market players, are waiting for clarity. I hope that we can provide it as soon as possible. Mr President, these are a few examples of the challenges ahead. It is also matters that affect people directly at home and that risk becoming extremely complex. A beautiful metaphor from the municipality where I myself have been mayor, is the phenomenon of elephant paths. When a municipality builds footpaths that don't make sense, people walk somewhere else. There are so-called elephant paths. Almere chose at some point not to build any more paths in new neighborhoods, but to see where the elephant paths arise and then to turn them into formal paths. I liked that. Now, of course, I am not suggesting that cabinet and parliament sit on their hands and see what unfolds. But we will have to keep an eye on all these issues and take into account what society demands of politics and how the solutions in the ministries and across the street in the House of Representatives get people home. As a senate, we are the final stage in this. Let us all go down those elephant paths together and continue to test the compromise critically each time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mrs Jorritsma has indicated that more needs to be built. But with the current migration, there's no way to build against it, is there? My follow-up question is: does Mrs Jorritsma see migration in this house as a positive phenomenon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u117	Migration in general cannot be seen as a negative phenomenon. In fact, this country is almost exclusively made up of migrants. There are also members here in the Chamber whose roots were somewhere in another country. That's fine. A lot of migrants who are currently coming to our country are people who are just doing work and who are also coming here for work. I see these lists every time, and then it's like there's just unwanted migrants. A lot of these people are very wanted. Because we have work for them, they're coming to this country too. What we want to be strict on are the people who come here illegally on the asylum title but who have no chance at all of asylum because they come from a safe country. We think you should try to get those people back to their country as soon as possible. That's not easy. We are working hard on this both in the Netherlands and in Europe. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. As far as asylum seekers are concerned, I believe that we should take our fair share with regard to political asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u118	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u119	In fact, I can conclude from this that the VVD entered the elections with a false election promise. She said she was going to restrict immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u120	That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u121	This year's estimate is 120,000 coming in. Last year, there were 80,000. You say if we have a job for it, it's fine. I can tell you that out of the 90,000 Syrians who came in here, three quarters depend on the assistance. So nothing's being contributed, it's not that positive. We had the same discussion last year on the allocation of houses. Because it is also true that these asylum seekers are the first to get a home. About the expulsion of hopeless asylum seekers the following. I believe that out of the 1,500 or so, only 5 have been deported, because the other countries, the safe countries, are not cooperating. Then the Secretary of State may walk out of the fire to get it done, but if there is no further pressure from this cabinet, then it just won't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u122	What is your question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mrs Jorritsma cannot seriously believe that migration is a positive phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u124	With all due respect, but a great deal of work in this country is done by people from Poland, Bulgaria and even Romania, so they contribute positively; yes, wonderfully, but it is done so from England, America, Germany and France. Everywhere, migrants come from. You're not going to tell me that you think we should send Syrian refugees who fled their country for a reason, back on the plane? Come on! We're going to take it nicely, as far as I'm concerned as temporarily as possible, and if it can't temporarily, then they'll stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u125	Mrs Faber, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u126	Actually, I can conclude that the VVD overtakes GroenLinks left in the area of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u127	We will hear that in your own term. Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I shall now give the floor to Mr Rosenmöller for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Exactly 30 years ago, I became a member of the House of Representatives. That was after working for eleven years in the port of Rotterdam; for the last four years as trade union manager and for the first seven years as a boatworker. The ideological motive to take that step, I threw it overboard after a few years. The young revolutionary soon became a young reformist. And that reformist I stayed. That young man didn't quite succeed, but I learned a lot in the harbor. Among other things, what it is to have colleagues doing hard and unpleasant work year after year and earning not a middle income but a low income from it. Then, because I made television, I saw a lot of the world. Every time I came home, I thought, "I'm lucky my crib was here." Every time I thought, and I still think: The Netherlands is a beautiful country, but it can be so much better, especially for the people who ended up on the wrong side of the line. That line has become a gap and precisely that feeling of injustice motivated me to go into politics. That was 1989. The United States had just eight years of Reagan. Margaret Thatcher still lived on Downing Street. The Wall had yet to fall. With strong backwinds from the United States and the United Kingdom, the victory of capitalism was celebrated. The neoliberal thinking conquered the European continent and the Netherlands was not a meloper, the Netherlands was a frontrunner. Public tasks were independent of privatisation and deregulation was the order of the day. The government had to be run as a company, a small company well understood: the e.g. the Netherlands. The consequences of the retiring government quickly became apparent in housing, spatial planning, youth care, nature and public transport, not to mention the labour market. We still have a thinned welfare state, but the two million flex workers are outside. That makes us absolutely a European misfit. Our country has the dubious reputation of being a turntable in global tax avoidance and money laundering and we score poorly on ecological parameters. See the broad welfare monitor that gives an integral picture of how our country stands in front of it. Congratulations on this document, which we would like to return to in the financial considerations. The promise was that this retiring government would be cheaper, more efficient, better and more in the interests of citizens. The effect was exactly opposite. Herman Tjeenk Willink describes that strikingly in his call to think Bigger, do smaller. In particular, it was the least resilient citizens who suffered from one-sided thinking in economic terms such as profit, cost, return, competition and self-responsibility. In the crisis, they were hit hardest. But there is also hope, Mr President. Neoliberalism is on its way both internationally and nationally. The effects of market failures are facing increasing resistance. Klaas Dijkhoff has recently argued for a liberalism that works for people. Hailed for the understanding that today's liberalism is not doing enough. Minister De Jonge states that the market forces in youth care have gone through. Minister Hoekstra has expanded the State's share in Air France-KLM in order to gain more control over the company as a government. Pieter Heerma wants to keep the Volksbank in public hands. What about the Prime Minister? He wasn't left behind. He has a vision. The much discussed elephant that obstructs the view seems to have disappeared. After almost ten years of government, this Prime Minister is also really looking forward. He has recently spoken passionately about Europe and said that it is really a little more than that single market. The fact that there is also an environmental debt in addition to public debt is the recognition of the Prime Minister, and that the multinationals should not be defended and supported at all costs, but should also be called upon and attacked if necessary, for example when it comes to raising wages. My question to the Prime Minister is whether that is his lesson from the debacle on the abolition of the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u129	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u130	We can talk about that later. I am hopeful that the Prime Minister will be able to say something about the turnaround in the ideological debate on the role of the market and the running of that small government as a company. I won't do it to him to ask for his vision, but just say something about it! Mr. Chairman. Our story today is about the revaluation of the role of the government which, together with citizens and their representatives, directs the major necessary transitions. First of all, we want a government that protects the vulnerable. Secretary of State Blokhuis was shocked when he heard at the end of August that the number of homeless people has doubled in ten years. It is one of the consequences of the non-functional housing market. You scared the hell out of me when I read this spring that half a million people in the dentist business have become priceless. Poverty is now reflected in the state of your teeth. I was shocked when the Nibud reported that 25% of the tenants are financially trapped and that half a million people have serious financial problems. You scared the hell out of me when I read that 40% of Bonaire's residents don't have enough money to make ends meet. But scaring the shit out of you isn't enough. We must prevent these abuses, but at least now we must fight them. The government is supposed to be a shield for the weak, but the shield for the weak is now a colander for the weak. The pay gap is increasing and the capital gap is greater than ever. All this brought Kim Putters, director of the SCP, last year to the rhetorical question of how much inequality a democratic rule of law can endure. What is the government going to do to combat this growing inequality? When will people themselves experience that they are improving? I refer to the promise in the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. We want a government that stands for the rule of law. Drug-related organised crime is really testing the rule of law. The murder of attorney Derk Wiersum has crossed a new line. The hard core seems for nothing and no one flinches back on the hunt for power and millions. We will agree that the fight against undermining must be pursued more effectively. We also read the letter from Minister Grapperhaus in which he outlines the outlines of an offensive against organised undermining crime. The Italian mafia expert Roberto Saviano recently said: "Amsterdam belongs to the most corrupt places in Europe. Because of your financial system, control is almost impossible and money laundering is all Dutch." I ask the cabinet to take concrete action to gain insight into the criminal flows of money and to fight them. The hard reality is that we are lagging behind. This is partly due to the years of austerity in the organisations serving the rule of law: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u131	Mr. Chairman. I dare to break into the maiden speech of someone who first entered the House of Representatives 30 years ago. So far, congratulations on the fine speech and the underlining of the maintenance that our rule of law requires in many respects. At the same time, Mr Rosenmöller mentions Amsterdam, the worrying state of serious drug crime and how the police are under pressure to get it back in order. Hard drugs play a very important role there. Now I hear from his party once in a while that you could, for example, legalize ecstasy and other forms of hard drugs and that that would work. The Netherlands is currently the world exporter of hard drugs. What does the serious crime finance? Drugs, especially hard drugs. Mr Rosenmöller has outlined a great deal about our dislike of neoliberalism. Isn't this actually a touch of neoliberalism that we thought: we leave it to the market, we legalize it and then we'll be okay? How does he look at his party's view of hard drugs over the past decades? Does he see any reason why he should take a look at certain points, as he congratulates the Prime Minister for that? Does he see any reason to correct something for GroenLinks himself at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u132	Thank you for the idea at all that I could change my party's line. But anyway, I'll try to answer the question more seriously. We are dealing here with an extremely complex story. Everything that has been said in recent months about the legalisation of hard drugs, with everything that my colleague Cathelijne Buitenweg has said about this in particular in recent months, falls to the majority in politics as seed on the rocks, while that is what many experts say in society. Then there is the complexity of whether you do it in the Netherlands or do it internationally. We are, of course, dealing with the Netherlands, but then we are dealing with international treaties. So the complexity is such that we would prefer to see, for example, the Minister's letter, which presents a rather comprehensive picture, in such a way that we eventually control drug-related organized crime rather than the underworld in some areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u133	But the analysis is correct that this drug mafia in the Netherlands has been able to grow due to the years of tolerance policy. It is precisely the conditions in the Netherlands that make the port, the regulations and our fantastic infrastructure that make sure that serious crime likes to settle in the Netherlands. Even if we legalize drugs in any way... I'm sick of it. You think it's a solution, and that's why I want to talk about it, because I always want to think about solutions. But even if we legalize it, those other characteristics continue to apply to the Netherlands and the Netherlands is a paradise for criminals to export solid hard drugs that destroy lives. I do not see how GroenLinks can continue to think so brightly that we can change this complexity by talking about legalization, because that is how we normalize the use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u134	Mrs Bikker calls the word rosy. I want to stay away from that. It is extremely complicated, but I am fighting against the fact that the criminals, the organized criminals, are able to find the Netherlands because of the tolerance policy. To a large extent, these criminal organisations are able to find the Netherlands because of the fact that it is an extremely attractive location to be able to do and continue illegal activities. That's what research is currently establishing. And so, in his letter, the Minister also says something about tackling these financial flows. That's exactly what I'm putting an extra emphasis on: follow the money. That's what we have to do. Again, it is not all we have to do, because we also have to do something about, for example, those often young children who are framed to do the crappy work, to do runner work. So there is clearly a preventive and a social side to it, but I am fighting that organised crime settles here because of the tolerance policy. See what the Italian experts say about this, which I have also quoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u135	Mrs Bikker, a third and final interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u136	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In the analysis carried out by the police academy on synthetic drugs, it is argued that the Netherlands had a rather naive policy on this element since the 1970s. Let's face that honestly. Then I'd like to talk to you about all the solutions. I'm not megadogmatic in that. But I do think one thing is important, and that is that we do not normalize this use, because it would destroy the children of our country when we say it is normal to use drugs. That's my big concern when we say things about legalizing parts of hard drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u137	I don't think it's normal either. I welcome the fact that there is one element in this debate that affects the consumer's responsibility. Absolutely. I find it hypocritical in some way, but we had another solution in the policy of tolerance, namely: the back door is closed and the front door is open. Yes, that is the Dutch policy of tolerance for decades, criticized by your group on the one hand and criticized by us on the other, but it was not good. That has certainly caused problems. That is what I would like to say on this point. Let us continue this debate. It is more complex than many think, but we have to do it here with sufficient capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u138	I enjoyed Mr Rosenmöller's speech, but I must say that I am a little shocked. He doesn't do himself any good if he says he doesn't have any influence on his party's policy. I hope not, because then we can all go home. Such an important man within GroenLinks must have influence. And I would say: especially in Amsterdam. I have also already started on Tops and Tromp's report, which has been a little under-exposed. This illustrates the situation in Amsterdam. It says Amsterdam is a failed state. I made the word 'a failed city', but I can say that Amsterdam is run by GroenLinks and you should have some influence on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u139	I don't see this relationship, unless you'd like to say it's been a failed state for 15 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u140	Mr. Cliteur, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u141	If we're going to talk about the historicity of that failed state... I really liked that you were talking about 1989 and that Saviano guy. Saviano is a crime reporter who has been guarded throughout his life, at least in recent years, for criticizing the Mafia. Actually, a situation similar to Geert Wilders' situation with regard to jihadist terrorism. Very similar those two to each other, and also something that should give us some thought, which fits very well with the first part of my speech on the state. 1989 is also an important moment because in 1989 a fatwa is pronounced by ayatollah Khomeini about Salman Rushdie. An important event is the fall of the wall in 1989, but on the other hand this is also a very important moment. From that moment on, we have enormous problems with jihadist terrorism, and so in recent years we have also had a lot of problems with organised crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u142	What's your question, Mr. Cliteur?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u143	The question is: how are we going to do that and what is GroenLinks going to do about it, especially in Amsterdam? I have the impression that Amsterdam is, in a sense, a city where the problems are very great, but also where the political power lies, especially at GroenLinks, to do something about it. So what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u144	The question is clear. Mr. Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u145	The Green Left in the big cities are doing what they can when it comes to combating this issue, but ultimately the decisions here will determine what can happen locally in the big cities. There is indeed agreement between a part of your story and mine. We both talked about Tops and Tromp's report, which you explicitly mentioned and now by me. We share the concern that ensues from this. So let's stay away from the question of who is where the most local and who has the most influence on what or not. We believe that this is essential, and if that is something that also binds us, then we are going to have to take the reasons why organized crime settles here away from each other. And that's really part of the location factors. That's part of living and that policy, and it's in the lack of capacity to solve it. We need to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u146	Would you like to continue your argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u147	I had stayed with the organisations of the rule of law that were or are run as a company, with too much focus on funding, on output. I would like to stress that the rule of law is not a business. Chief Akerboom said we need to put an end to the yo-yo policy. He is right to say that we cannot maintain the rule of law if we do not opt for more constant funding. We need a long-term vision, including budgetary frameworks, for the organisations that serve the rule of law: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, justice, including the legal aid financed. We ask the Cabinet to set up a wide-ranging independent committee of experts to advise us on this in such a way as to ensure the necessary independence, accessibility and strength of action and to sustainably strengthen the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. We want a government that directs the great transitions we stand for. One of them is a timely and effective response to the climate crisis. There is a great deal of international consensus to drastically reduce CO emissions. The lives of millions of people are already being affected by climate change, and the urgency comes further from those protesters who ask governments around the world to take action. The urgency comes from the Secretary-General of the United Nations who constantly urges governments to implement the Paris Convention. The urgency comes from our financial supervisors such as DNB that encourages financial institutions to take their role in that transition. With the Climate Act and the Climate Agreement, we are making real progress, but the Prime Minister says we have until 2050. It's like he's still there. That is exactly the wrong message, in all kinds of ways. Of course, the government can't do this alone. We will need the movement of citizens and their organisations very much. The same applies to sustainable business. We want to implement this transition in a way that adults can wear and young people ask of us. This requires direction and coordination of an active, fair and binding government. Active in the sense that its own instruments are being actively used, I am thinking of the investment fund. A fair government that lets the polluter pay and the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens. Everyone will have to make their contribution, but it cannot be that the lowest incomes pay the highest price. Great transitions require a minimum of certainty. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? That government is also governed by the law. I ask the Prime Minister to confirm in clear language that both the Urgenda judgment and the Council of State ruling on nitrogen will be implemented. Mr. Chairman. We want a government that is a reliable enforcer, but what have we done to cut back and make it complex? The problems at the CBR, the Tax Office and the UWV are known. Decentralisations lead to shortages and chaotic scenes in urban areas, while we are facing huge transitions in the areas of climate, energy, agriculture, mobility and so on. Many of these transitions need to be established locally through the instruments of the Environment Act. Experts have told us here that we are on our way to another crisis in which we are threatening to overrule the implementation services and the municipalities. What is the government doing about the policy and implementation capacity in order to carry out the core tasks and necessary transitions properly? Mr. Chairman. We want a government that provides an attractive public sector. For decades, marginalising the government has also had an impact on the value of public work. Many people who nevertheless opted for a career in the public sector were faced with an enormous workload. Ask the people in the police and the judiciary, ask the teachers and nurses, and so on. People who are invaluable to our society; professionals who do not opt for the highest salary, but in many cases three strokes to work around. The appreciation for the public work does not match the performance delivered. That appreciation should always be there, deficits or not, high-conjuncture or not. This appreciation also contributes to a higher status and these people deserve it. If you choose education with two masters, you're supposed to be a hero and not a loser. I'd almost say the Prime Minister's a hero, too, because he's in front of the class every Thursday morning, but I think he only has one master. Mr. Chairman. This high status also includes an acceptable workload, a decent salary and confidence in professional autonomy. The Prime Minister's appeal to private employers to increase wages also creates obligations for the role of the government as an employer. We are confronted almost daily with poignant stories about drop-out; mostly young children who do not receive the education they are entitled to with additional consequences for children with fewer opportunities. They often live in vulnerable neighbourhoods of large cities. And we're talking about equality of opportunity. I will confine myself to my main role in education, but we urge the cabinet to solve the acute problems in basic education in particular. I'd like a concrete response. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We celebrate this and next year at many moments 75 years of liberation. Today in Breda. With a look across the border, we must recognise that many people do not have that freedom, that people are fleeing hunger and violence. I am thinking of the Kurds, but not just of them. We will often hear in the coming months that the trinity of freedom, democracy and the rule of law is not self-evident, that we must fight for it. The regaining of authority and trust in the government is very important. We want to remain a democratic rule of law, but too many people turn away from it. Apathy is death in the pot of democracy. We like to talk about one country, one society, but the hard reality is that there are parallel societies. The government, together with civil society organisations and civil movements, together with the benevolent business community, will have to direct major transitions, and this requires direction and reliability. After all, these trials last longer than a cabinet period. The government will have to protect the less resilient citizens. It will have to reduce unacceptable differences, improve its executive functions and comply with legal rulings. Mr. Chairman. On these lines, our group will assess government policy. The reformist in me doesn't pick up his nose for small steps. We will therefore support legislation which will take us a step forward on balance, but we will not hesitate to block backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u148	Mr Rosenmöller points out that it is very urgent to reduce CO emissions. We as PVV are different in this film, I would like to emphasise that. But if you think it's so urgent, why don't you keep a story for nuclear power plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u149	Well, Mr. Chairman, how much time do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u150	Not much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u151	We do not do that because we are on our way to a sustainable society and we do not consider nuclear energy in the present state to be sustainable and unaffordable. That is why we reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u152	Can you explain why you don't think it's sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u153	I'd say read the pieces. There are some people who have said something about storage, that you have to do it underground, that it does not disappear there and that next generations suffer from it. I think, looking at you a little bit like that, maybe we're not anymore, but okay. That's not sustainable. Sustainable is that in a few generations you won't suffer from it. The problem of storage is such that it has not yet been resolved, is not sustainable and that you should not do so with those forms of radiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u154	Mrs Faber, third and last time on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u155	I think it's fair to say that I'm doing it for the sake of time, a little bit of bullshit, because there are really good solutions. thorium plants are also coming. You probably prefer windmills. There was another piece in the newspaper this morning about the greenhouse gases released by windmills. That was already known by the Kyoto Convention, but it was deliberately removed from the Climate Agreement. So, in fact, it's a little hypocritical, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u156	We disagree, but if you have a different opinion, do you swear or are you a hypocrite? Is that a bit of the PVV Group's assessment? Then I can get used to it a little bit, because it will happen more often that we may look at reality a little differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u157	I propose that we hold the debate in substance and that we do not take the same measure in these terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u158	I'm responding to the interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u159	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u160	I'm gonna have to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u161	I had to respond. Would it be okay if we just put it down in a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u162	President. - I call the Group of the European People's
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u163	Mr Rosenmöller, the chairman has given me the floor and I am allowed to speak in this House at that time. Anyway, you're gonna have to get used to it, too, because this is your maiden speech. Okay, that happens. Of course, you may have a different opinion, but of course it is true that I am only going to use the words'somewhat gibberish' once again that there are no good solutions for radioactive waste. There are techniques in which we can very, very, very reduce radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u164	My conclusion is no different than that we disagree. I have only responded to the qualifications given by Mrs Faber herself. I won't mention them. In future, let us continue to discuss on the basis of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u165	I waited, because I have just learned from Mr Kox to wait at a maiden speech until it is finished. I congratulate Mr Rosenmöller and also Mr Cliteur on their maiden speech. Mr Rosenmöller has made a nice plea to the cabinet to stick to everything that currently exists around the climate situation. We note with each other that construction is still at the moment. This is about 18,000 projects and there are probably more by now. Earthmoving's jammed. The farmers have a huge problem. Does Mr Rosenmöller, in sticking to these measures, suggest to the cabinet how we can get the Netherlands out of this hold and get it off the lock again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u166	Yes, we have talked a lot about this in recent weeks, also with farmers. We have to go to another agriculture. That's, I think, our both starting point. The legal statements we are faced with are the starting point for our action. We do not look backwards in this case, because that is the starting point. We have a huge nitrogen problem. I think we share that. How do you then deal with the future of agriculture separately from the question of the nitrogen problem? How can public money or money from farmers' financiers, such as banks, tempt farmers into other activities? Of course, we have all kinds of ideas about this, sometimes with farmers' organisations. So, yes, I do. It is not a question of supporting everything the cabinet says. We're talking about a big transition here where we have to get out of each other. You cannot say to farmers: boys, the way you produce in the present and have produced in the past is acceptable for the future. That's really... I can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u167	Mr Rosenmöller's reply is aimed at farmers. Maybe it's something else with the builders and the earthmoving. Pfas is now a tricky extra problem. Should construction also be halved or otherwise organised, so that we get a completely different way of decorating the country or something like that? We cannot tell those people that we have discussed with the farmers that we have to do something else, because at the moment the country is locked. I mentioned the 18,000 construction projects. That's gonna cost thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u168	There is a more concrete and a more general answer to be given. The more concrete thing is that farmers must be given a perspective. As far as construction and pfas are concerned, I heard something on the radio this morning about the cabinet's intentions to instruct RIVM to look at other standards. That's not what I'm gonna talk about here. That's all gonna end up here someday. The builders are also changing. In construction, in the nature of the work and the materials changes a lot. That's the situation we're in. Mr. Schalk, we are in an economy that is transforming from an old-fashioned economy to a modern, sustainable economy. This gives all kinds of effects and all kinds of uncertainty. I understand that uncertainty. However, we must be absolutely clear about the perspective we are working towards and then take people with us on that journey. Leaving everything as it is means burdening the new generation with a debt that is unacceptable. I hope you, your party and your supporters will understand this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u169	Mr Schalk briefly and then we finish this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u170	When it comes to the economy, at the moment we are dealing with an economy that came out a few years ago, went full circle and is now crippled. I can follow Mr Rosenmöller when he says that we must look to the future to resolve this. That's the long term. We're gonna talk about that. But in the short term, it will not help the builders. There seem to be people coming from the earth moving towards The Hague tomorrow. This morning, one of the secretary of state said she was absolutely right. At least I understand that they are welcome and that she will address them. These people will not benefit if we now tell them that in a number of years it will have to look different. Right now, the case is locked. How do we get that off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u171	Let me say one more thing about what has puzzled me over the past few months, if I may say so, was the question of how it was possible for the PAS law to pass the First Chamber. How did that happen? We are talking about problems that were discussed here years ago. With an overwhelming majority, this First Chamber has agreed to legislation of which we are today experiencing the consequences. The Animal Party, 50PLUS, SP and yours truly did not vote for it. I don't think I'm shorting anyone right now. Oh, the OSF, excuse. That was the handful of opponents. The vast majority, including your party, was for that. I would almost be inclined to use the faint you-bak by saying: is there also any reflection possible on why this could have happened in 2014, which meant that we now had to close things down in 2019 as a result of legal rulings?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u172	Mr Schalk briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u173	I thought I was out of room, Mr. Chairman, but I was actually being addressed. Was there any reflection? Yeah, there's some reflection at the SGP. That is why my party recently voted against the Climate Law. In doing so, we will once again place some sort of percentage in the law that we will be faced with in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u174	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. In your own term, you will be given an extensive opportunity to respond to this. I shall go briefly to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u175	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Rosenmöller on his maiden speech. Those congratulations also apply to Mr Cliteur. In line with what has been said before, I have also waited until the end of the contribution. I missed something, and you can guess what that is. You did not use the words'retirement agreement' or 'pensions'. That is remarkable because GroenLinks supported the pension agreement with the Labour Party as opposition parties. My question is mainly based on what happened after the beginning of June when that agreement was signed. The interest rate fell and the discounts are increasing for millions of people. Do you not think that, in view of the further progress of the negotiations on a pension system, all reductions should be removed? I would remind you of the initiative I submitted last year in the Lower House together with colleague Smeulders van GroenLinks to extend the five-year period by two years in order to give more time to pension funds, who threatened to come under water because of this absurd calculation rate. Now we're months away. Do you not think that we should say in retrospect that, in order to succeed in these negotiations, we do not think that they are necessary, but that you should at least withdraw those discounts? Large cuts are, of course, very damaging to confidence, but there is also a good chance that the agreement will fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u176	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u177	I say to you as my second colleague in a row that we cannot keep everything as it is. This applies to agriculture and construction, but also to pensions. When it comes to the threatening reductions, I say to Mr Van Rooijen that our Parliamentary Group, with other political groups and with the Minister, has discussed whether you cannot reasonably think of anything that would prevent these reductions from going ahead. We're in transition. It was precisely the intention of the pension agreement to avoid these reductions. You know what happened in the financial markets. You know what happened with regard to interest rates. You know what effect that has on the level of coverage. You know what coverage level is needed to avoid shortening. You know these boundaries as well as I do. Nevertheless, we have said to the Minister: look what you can do to avoid discounts on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u178	Mr. Van Rooijen, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u179	I think I might even be able to ask a third question. Colleagues may, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u180	In this house, as under my predecessor, there are two interruptions and, exceptionally, three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u181	Or sometimes four.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u182	We're gonna go through that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u183	I'm only my second and I'm almost being called to order. With the answer that you cannot keep to everything, I agree in general at least. But then you gave me an answer which gives me some of the confidence you have with us here in this Chamber. when proposals come to mind on how to avoid these reductions, especially in view of the new system. That was also the background and motivation of the joint initiative-law design with GroenLinks for young and old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u184	It may be that Mr Van Rooijen is surprised, but then he really missed something. The well-known Paul Smeulders on the other side says exactly the same thing, for months. I see a non-verbal reaction from the Minister of Social Affairs who is doing me good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u185	I didn't see that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u186	No, that's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u187	Thank you. Let's get this over with. Are you saying that at the end of November, when that letter comes, you expect all discounts to go off the table or something to be done only in the margin with unnecessary discounts, in particular helping ABP and Care and Welfare in relation to that critical coverage rate that they would just be covered by? Then you may have to reconsider the VEV discount. I am talking here about the discounts in metal at the end of the year. Do you think that, for the 2 million workers and pensioners in the metal industry, one and a half million workers and half a million pensioners, the discounts should be cancelled and that the Minister should decide at the end of November?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u188	I can't answer that question, and I'll tell you why. Do you think that in the General Reviews you should answer the question of what should happen to one of those dozens of pension funds we have, with all that variety, whether or not, when we don't even have the Minister's letter yet? Our group's policy here and on the other side is that everything must be done to work in the spirit of the pension agreement and continue to work to undo discounts. I can't make it any shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u189	I'm going to see Mrs. Bredenoord now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u190	Do you mind if I take a moment to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u191	No, you've had four interruptions. That's one bonus. You will have your own speaking time and then you can address it. Mrs. Bredenoord?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u192	I have a short question, with an emphasis on'short', to Mr Rosenmöller. You've asked a lot of cabinet questions about drug policy. In your contribution and also in the contributions made by colleagues on this subject, I heard a considerable inconvenience about the current situation for a number of reasons. The back door of coffeeshops is forbidden, but the front door is tolerated. Now, next week when that bill is discussed, we have a very good opportunity to finally start a policy change. In ten municipalities we see if we can do pot experiments in a closed chain. My only gesture is an outstretched hand to Mr Rosenmöller: shall we try to change the situation there, shall we see if we can change the current policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u193	I quote the last sentence I said: the reformist in me is not getting his nose in small steps, and we will support legislation that brings us a step forward on balance. Our intention is to do so, but it is all next week to see this as a step forward and to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u194	For a reformist, Mr. Rosenmöller keeps a good story. I'm very happy about it. I am also very pleased that you are participating in the General Reviews. I think it is important to put one more question on the table. There's a lot of criticism coming as soon as you say here, even as a reformist, that we have to do something on the production side and that we can't go on like this. That's what I'm getting from the heart. Is it not my question to Mr Rosenmöller that was the big mistake of the last twenty years that we almost systematically did not look at the production and were only concerned with 'everyone can produce what he wants and then we are going to look at it in the consumer sphere'? We will now have to look at how we produce food, how we produce goods and what the consequences are. If we don't look at that, we'll never be able to solve the climate problem. If we agree, I will forgive Mr Rosenmöller's reformism and like to join his club.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u195	There's an opportunity for Mr. Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u196	We agree, Mr President, I will help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u197	Then Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u198	I agree with many of what Mr Rosenmöller has said. He said he wouldn't make any statements about the PAS and about pfas, but luckily he came back to it by saying "how could the PAS have passed this house?" Our parties were shoulder to shoulder when we tried to stop the PAS. That didn't work. Now GroenLinks has announced that she wants to take a slightly different position vis-à-vis the cabinet. She voted in favour of the agricultural budget. Also with pfas and PAS it becomes very important what the position of GroenLinks becomes. Will GroenLinks still fight shoulder to shoulder against measures like PAS, or will it be different? Can Mr Rosenmöller clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u199	I'm not sure what you mean by looking at the cabinet differently. However, my colleague Jesse Klaver, at the General Political Reviews six weeks ago, held a story in the House of Representatives that included another political culture. I knew that story. Insofar as there is any concern for you that we may not have been aware of that, I can take that care away. That's one. Two. We stood and stood, I think, shoulder to shoulder when it comes to the PAS. With regard to pfas, we are at the very beginning. I wouldn't know what to say about that, now that the Secretary of State has given RIVM an order. We all see that coming along here; probably there first on the other side in the case of legislation and then here. I cannot therefore imagine that it will be any different to what has happened in the past and that we will continue to work together in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u200	Mr. Koffeman, last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u201	I'm glad. My concern was not, by the way, that you would not be aware of the extension of your second parliamentary group to the cabinet position. My concern was much more that you might do the same with regard to pfas. The Secretary of State has given RIVM an order: boys, could you please consider how to extend that standard? That's not normally the assignment you give to scientists. You ask scientists: can you say what a safe standard is? If you take an advance on the outcome and actually say "do everything to make the norm wider," I actually expect you to say shoulder to shoulder: but that can't be the focus of that investigation or that assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u202	The point is clear. Mr. Rosenmöller?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u203	There's just been a small interrupt debate between scientists. I do not interfere in this category, because I have to acknowledge my superiors in the fellow professors. But I honestly think that RIVM has such a track record that it is not limited to an answer to the question "it is safe; give another standard so that we can go back to work." That's not how RIVM's gonna do it, I guess. If that were the case, we would meet again in the same quadrant of the political playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u204	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-3.u205	Thank you. Mr. Rosenmöller. Congratulations on your maiden speech. It's strange, of course, to speak of a maiden speech in your case. But we do. Regardless of your record in that other Chamber, your first contribution to this house is considered "maiden." Allow me, therefore, to outline some of your background. Before entering into your political experience, I would like to take you back to 1978, when you became a student in the port of Rotterdam. This is gonna be a long story. A student or port worker is someone who loads and unloads the ships. As strike leader in the port and district director of Vervoersbond FNV, you have already gained some fame. In 1989 you were named Havenman of the Year, a title previously reserved for port entrepreneurs. You became a member of the Lower House for GroenLinks in the same year. From May 1994 to November 2002, you were political leader of the party and group chairman in the Lower House. In January 2003 you said goodbye. After an interruption of more than 16 years, you have been active in politics since 11 June as group chairman of GroenLinks in this Chamber. In the intervening years we also got to know you from other quarters. So you made for the IKON programs such as Speaking Affairs, in which you interviewed well-known Dutch people on current topics. In addition, you were a member or chairman of various working groups advising the government, such as the Commission's participation of women from ethnic minority groups, and you were an ambassador to young people on healthy weight. Since 2013, you have been chairman of the VO Council. Both inside and outside the Lower House, you have shown great interest and commitment in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom over the years. You were chairman of the permanent committee for Dutch-Antillian and Aruban Affairs in the Lower House. Outside the Chamber you have been a member of the Working Party on Administrative and Financial Relations Netherlands Antilles. It is therefore no surprise that you became chairman of the permanent Committee for Kingdom Relations in this Chamber, KOREL. In your autobiography A nice dog track from 2003 you wrote in the epilogue: "A return to The Hague? I don't have to think about it right now. But the saying 'never say never' also applies to The Hague." That has only been proven once more today. Once again, Mr. Rosenmöller. We're gonna suspend for lunch now. I propose that we start at 1.30 p.m., because we still have a large number of speakers, which we are all looking forward to.
