ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	Like every Tuesday, we start with oral Question Time. Today we begin with Mr Van Raak's question from the SP Group to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the internal network of hundreds of companies and ministries that was open for months. I call Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	The President is right to say that for months the door was wide open with important vital infrastructure, because there was a security breach. That was the case with Shell, with Boskalis, with defence companies, with newspaper companies and with air traffic controllers. You could go in like this. You could use files, passwords and usernames. You could pretend to be an employee. You could manipulate data. You could be spying. In all these types of companies, China, Russia, Iran and America were able to put in their espionage software. They could do that for months, while these companies were warned about it. All they should have done was run an update to put security back in place. But it's not done. We were told that through the Volkskrant. Later on in the weekend we were told through Reporter that there were many more cases, including schools and healthcare institutions. The Minister's first reaction to the NOS was: if you as a company or institution are not able to make a security update, then you are entitled to quote the Minister of Foreign Affairs an unbelievable ball of oil. Is it true that, as the Volkskrant writes, there has also been a leak at the Ministry of Justice and Security for months, because it hasn't updated for months? I ask the Minister: does he think he is an incredible orb? And how is he going to make sure that organisations do update on this kind of vital infrastructure? How can we organize that? How can we ensure that in the context of national security?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate that your Chamber is raising this issue through Mr Van Raak. And by that, I mean the issue of cybersecurity and not so much, in the run-up to the turn of the year, the problem of baked goods. But I'll come back to that, too. It is true that, as de Volkskrant reports, the internal network of hundreds of organisations in the Netherlands had a vulnerability for several months. This vulnerability arose from the lack of timely security updates for the so-called virtual private network software of the company Pulse Secure. I will explain very briefly what virtual private network software is. That's actually software that allows you to connect anonymized to Wi-Fi. On 15 April, the NCSC, the National Cyber Security Centre, which is under my responsibility, issued an opinion highlighting this vulnerability. It has also actively informed the target public authorities and vital infrastructure companies about this. Based on this, organizations have been able to run updates. On 21 August, the NCSC converted this first opinion into the highest level of security advice. Afterwards this was also arrested by almost all JenV-organisations, but also by JenV there was talk that they were behind on that security update. The NCSC's advice has led to all JenV authorities finally implementing those updates. I am trying to highlight the issue of cybersecurity very strongly. That is why it is really good that we are talking about this. This subject is underestimated. The report of the WRR, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, says: something can simply happen in the computer systems, creating a sustainable social disruption. It seems very difficult to highlight this in such a way that there is a complete alertness on this point. And I have indeed indicated that if you give up as a reason "we can't update now, because then the production will stand still," as far as I'm concerned, you're an incredible ball of oil. You do have to get to work as soon as you get those updates. Especially if the NCSC warns you, you need to pick that up immediately. Finally, Mr President. I have spoken today with the CEOs, the highest bosses, of a number of companies, including Schiphol and Rabobank, to listen to this problem too. In any case, an additional idea emerged, namely to see whether we should not be making some kind of chain responsibility, as is already the case in the financial sector. If you are the end user of a very large system, then you are responsible for it working well for those who have parts of it under their responsibility. Mr Van Raak is right to draw attention to this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u5	We're talking about energy companies, we're talking about defence companies, and we're talking about media companies, which for months were out of order and had just opened the door to espionage, malice and manipulation. The same applies to the Ministry of Justice and Security. How long has the Ministry been subject to oil ball? How long did it take to close the hole? We have someone who warns, namely the National Cyber Security Center. That was already warned in March. Only governments and companies have done nothing and have been oil orbs. And then there is a national interest. How is it that we leave this security of vital infrastructure to public interests or civil servants who do not want to act? Why is it not possible to ensure that the National Cyber Security Centre can provide binding advice and much more control? For example, why doesn't the government employ hackers to track down holes like this? Now we've depended on Matthijs Koot, who in his own time as a security expert has been looking for this sort of thing. Why aren't fines being paid? Why don't we have a supervisor who can look for this himself, I'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u6	Before I answer that question, I would like to add some nuance. It is true that on 21 August the highest level of security advice was issued, because then it became clear that the so-called exploitation code of these systems would become publicly available. At the time it was said: now we really need to get the companies in the highest gear in order to adapt this. Now it is true that at the moment the situation is according to the law that we adopted in this Chamber a few years ago, namely the Security Networks and Information Systems Act, the Wbni. In principle, the NCSC does not pass this on to the relevant or responsible ministry as two warnings, and this may impose so-called administrative constraint. In last summer's cybersecurity letter to your Chamber, I announced that I am doing a study on whether there should be central supervision with a separate authority. In fact, that is more or less what Mr Van Raak says: a kind of cyber security authority that should be given perseverance power from now on. I said today in a publication in one of the newspapers that we must be careful not to turn it into some kind of A-Team, because it still has to be within the context of our society. So I share Mr Van Raak's point that we need to look at a central authority that can say at some point: now we are going to do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u7	I'm happy about that. The Minister takes it seriously and apologizes for what happened at the Ministry. I'm glad someone's coming in with perseverance. Is there gonna be anyone coming to investigate those leaks? Otherwise, national security will remain at risk. I don't think that's a case we can leave to companies. Reporter has also shown that hundreds of companies still have a security breach at the moment, so despite the warnings. It started in March. In August, the alarm was sounded. It applies to this VPN provider. It also applies to others. Hundreds of companies haven't sorted out the leak yet. Can the Minister indicate which companies they are and how many companies they are, or does he not see that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u8	The NCSC, the National Cyber Security Centre, does indeed have the possibility, even different forms, to scan the Internet for certain vulnerabilities that occur. The NCSC shall have that power and capacity. We should definitely continue with that. We should link that to one of those authorities I just described. I think Mr Van Raak is thinking about that himself. You will understand that, for reasons of confidentiality, I cannot tell you which specific companies have been competing with this problem. But know that the NCSC is on top of that. I just outlined that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u10	First of all, let me congratulate the Minister for taking substantial action on this problem. That's very good. I'd like to get a little more information on the following. I am happy to join Mr Van Raak in that. This is an extremely urgent issue. I read in the Minister's plans that it will be a while before something happens. What possibilities does he see for really taking measures in the very short term to prevent this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u11	We got that Wbni. For the viewers at home, his name was originally the cybersecurity law. But this law was eventually renamed Wbni. That law allows governments, especially ministries, to really force a company to do certain interventions by means of so-called administrative coercion. I now notice that we have to be very honest about this. If we really want to take cybersecurity seriously and get it right, we need to put it right centrally. Following on from the letter I sent this summer, I will soon return to the Chamber with a detailed plan. Then I come back to the idea, the question, which comes from the companies themselves, namely: why don't you do something with some kind of chain liability?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u12	The vital infrastructure was wide open. No whizzkid was needed to use information and play it in the wrong hands. It is important, however, to identify the risks involved here and why no action was taken in April-May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u13	The action has been taken. I have just described this in the first period of my reply to Mr Van Raak. That is also the action we have described in the legislation, the GNI Act. We have to go through that process with each other. I say quite clearly here: I note that there is still a missing element. That is that an independent authority should be able at some point, after warnings, to say: nothing is happening; we will have to go through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u14	I am pleased that the Minister is very serious on this issue and is talking about a central authority. But it does raise a question for me. We have the National Cyber Security Center. This is to detect these problems in good time and to warn companies and government organisations. That's what it did. Only, does it have enough opportunities to play that coordinating role? You can take the step to a new authority, but we have a National Cyber Security Center. That may need to be given a little more powers, but that might be a much more logical way forward. So I'm just looking for what the minister is thinking right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u15	It is very good that Mr Verhoeven makes that point quite explicit here. I am not interested in making another new window or anything like that. What matters to me is that the NCSC has no perseverance. So they can't tell Company X, a very large company that plays a role in the vital infrastructure, and now you're gonna do it, you're gonna get a commitment, or we're gonna do it for you in a month. We need that authority. I would certainly like to talk about this with Mr Verhoeven as a specialist or that the NCSC should be or that we should invest it elsewhere. In any case, we need to set that up properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u16	Second question by Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u17	It is nice that we can indeed look at exactly how we are going to organise it, in a way that fits in with what we already have instead of something new coming up. By the way, there is another suggestion I would like to make to the Minister. D66 and the VVD filed a motion six months ago, I think, calling for the vital infrastructure to be scanned in its completeness and the holes closed quickly. I get the feeling here and there that the Minister does not give such a high priority to this. I would never call him an orb, but I'd think it would be silly if we didn't work on that. It's just an adopted chamber motion that fits seamlessly with what was in the Volkskrant last Saturday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u18	There is already such a scan of important parts of the vital infrastructure. Painful enough. That is the report of the Court of Auditors on this subject in March. As a result, I said in my letter to your Chamber this summer: I think the best way forward is to have this power of perseverance. Of course, I can do that scan periodically every time, but it's all about "update" that says the word "update" already says that these vital systems are constantly on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u19	In reply to Mr Van Raak's question, the Minister stated that it was true that there were organisations that were lagging behind with the update. I think that is a slightly too friendly wording for what is really going on, because that is that systems and networks are everywhere open to evildoers. The minister says if they don't take care of it ourselves, we'll come and do it. In doing so, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to pay attention to businesses and SMEs who need support in this regard. Can I understand this statement by this Minister in this way, and does he mean it that way? I would also very much like to have an analysis of this, and I understand that this is not now possible because of the risks we have been running recently, for example because the Ministry of Justice and Security had to deal with this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u20	A genuinely thorough analysis, let me say, because then, I think, we are going to go beyond the brief part of this debate. I do think that the NCSC has, in any case, been the design of the law, which has indicated this in time and has also given the highest security advice in good time. I have here, Mr President, precisely to accommodate those small businesses, the cybersecurity dictionary that I would like to present to you in a moment on behalf of the NCSC and myself. That has come out today and is a first step towards making what cybersecurity is accessible to everyone, because that is the only way we can offer everyone that cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you.
