ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the Act on Language and Accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr Wiersma would like to have the floor again, but I will not give him that. Mr Futselaar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law that we are dealing with here is about different parts that are a bit separate from each other. They are linked, but almost all deserve a separate debate: firstly, the discussion about the language of our higher education, which is a continuous social debate, but also the controversial subject of numerus fixus, and so there are some other issues that the law regulates, such as asking for contributions of its own. I would like to begin with the question of English-speaking education. The reality of English-speaking education in the Netherlands in higher education, I add, is not generally that we attract top talent worldwide, as is sometimes suggested. The reality is that we in the Netherlands are training our neighbours. Three quarters of foreign students in the Netherlands come from the EEA, the European Economic Area. More than a third of the Bachelor's students, 35%, come from Germany. In fact, the Netherlands also finances the defects of German higher education. That would not be such a problem if the opposite were true, if our Dutch students could very easily go to German, French or Italian universities. But these universities are not so crazy to offer, like us, a large part of the curriculum in English. It is no wonder that for every Dutch student abroad there are about nine foreign students in the Netherlands. That's a crooked affair, whatever else you think of it. Mr. Chairman. They will undoubtedly deny it, but some of our institutions, in particular some of them in what D66 calls "outsiders," have seen internationalisation as an opportunity to raise their own student numbers, and thus bring in a larger proportion of the constant cake of funding education. Because, of course, there is a perverse incentive to attract as many foreign students as possible. We have seen that institutions have been actively recruiting abroad in recent years. This incentive is extra perverse, because due to the large influx of international students from recent years, the average amount of education per student has fallen. Mr Bishop has already referred to this. Also, the annual assessments of new students that we have to make, partly due to the international influx, are always wrong, creating a million hole in the budget that needs to be resolved again. If you want to attract international students on a large scale, you have to offer a lot of English-language education. That's the formula. That is what institutions have been doing on a large scale in recent years. They have not often been stopped by the spirit and sometimes not by the letter of the law. We saw, for example, that a large number of institutions, according to a report, did not have the mandatory code of conduct for teaching English. If there was, it was often very short or simply untraceable. For example, you have to click on the website twenty times. In fact, these institutions violated the law. They may have done that for years without OCW ever sticking out a leg to correct them, but nevertheless, they violated the law for years. Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, the SP has never been a strong supporter of forcing institutions to go back to mass education through legal means. We believe that you should be reluctant to tell institutions how to teach. We have always been much more in favour of removing the incentive, so to deal with it through the funding system and to ensure that that incentive disappears. The Minister has made a start with this by increasing the fixed foot, because with this you finance less per student and thus remove part of the incentive. We will see whether further proposals are needed for this, but as far as we are concerned, it is the route through which we can best tackle what we do see as a problem. This bill is based on the principle of "Dutch, unless." That is a wonderful principle, but that was also true for the old law. In the old bill, the criterion on which an assessment was made was necessity. The necessity was considered. In the new legislative proposal, the criterion under assessment is added value. At first glance, that looks like a relief. Mr Bishop referred to this as well. But the big problem with the old "need" was that this concept could be interpreted so widely, and was also explained in practice, that it became meaningless. The old law was massively bypassed, ignored. The exceptions that existed were used. And "additional value" may be lighter, but is in any case tested by the NVAO on the basis of criteria. Those criteria may be adjusted by means of an AMvB if necessary. This gives the Chamber and the Minister at least some possibility of controlling and controlling language policy, more than we have had so far. In fact, we are replacing a very strict law that offered huge exceptions and where enforcement was virtually impossible in practice, with a law that basically gives more scope, but also gives much more scope for containment in practice. It will eventually be the execution how are we going to do it? It determines whether this law is successful in limiting foreign-language education where this is nonsense on the one hand and ensuring that meaningful examples are well substantiated on the other. That is something to follow critically, specifically in the final implementation of the AMvB. In fact, we are also delaying the discussion until the criteria are known, because they are not yet known exactly. But the criteria that we are going to set will depend very much on them. The VSNU calls for the criteria to be limited to just checking whether the quality testing systems comply with the language choice. Yes, thank you the cuckoo! I really want a substantive weighting of language choice. A substantive review should be carried out. On the other side of the spectrum you could in theory also enforce "there must be so many hours of Dutch lessons in a curriculum or, specifically, Dutch language skills." That's going a lot, I'd say. I do not think that as a government we should intervene in what curricula look like. You can talk about language, but not about which subjects to teach, because that is basically in the institutions. There's gonna have to be a middle ground somewhere, and that could be pretty tricky. Good luck with the Minister. But in general we are quite positive about this development, Mr President. When it comes to combating needless English, we see, as has been said, a great deal of use in the funding debate. However, we are concerned that Mr Wiersma has already said something about the question of whether all the training committees can actually handle the extra work. They will be given a new task, namely to review the choice of another language. Are they sure they're up to this? We have previously advocated a better guarantee of good support for training committees. The differences between institutions and sometimes also between training courses are quite large. How does the Minister see this, even in the light of this law? Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal provides for an extension of the possibility of asking for own contributions. It hasn't really been about that today, but there is that possibility. We are always a little reluctant when it comes to our own contributions, especially in the care dossier. But when it comes to graduation, this is actually somewhat reasonable. Not only because the maximum amount is quite limited, but also because we hear from universities that in practice they run into the fact that quite a few foreign students register at various institutions, also because they do not understand the Dutch system and do not know that you are not being rejected as in the UK system, for example. Then the universities can't plan how many students they'll get. A very limited administrative amount is probably a good way of reducing this. We therefore understand that choice. We are less enthusiastic about the possible charging of language tests to foreign students, also because the Minister in the legislative proposal is very brief in arguing that there is no alternative. How high are these costs actually going to be for institutions? In principle, I would like to ask: is paying for a language test for an institution not a logical consequence of choosing another language? Then the final subject is the numerus fixus. As far as SP is concerned, a numerus fixus, apart from the exceptions such as medicines and that kind of training, should only exist when an education is unexpectedly confronted with much higher student growth than planned. I taught that kind of training once. I won't say it was just me that made the training much more successful than planned, but I can say that as a teacher you're really looking at each other in a panic. Where do we get the locals? Where do we get the people? Are we gonna schedule unauthorized people? It can be a serious problem if you are in danger of getting such large student growth that can no longer be reasonably compensated. At such a time a fixus may be justified, but it must by definition be temporary. In the long term, you can always fix this, even if you have to set up new buildings and so on; that is possible. What is problematic about the bill is that the Minister proposes a procedure with prior consent for a numerus fixus. It is precisely the kind of unexpected situations I have outlined that do not lend themselves to extensive pre-emptive routes. You're not gonna say two years in advance, we're gonna panic in two years and we don't know where to get the people from. That'll be at the registrations you see coming in. Then you see that there are 500 registrations instead of the 50 you expected. That is why we see more of an ex post procedure. Then an institution can introduce the numerus fixus on the basis of capacity problems, but it is subsequently tested by OCW and may disappear again if it turns out to have been improperly used. Because it is a capacity problem, it can certainly not last longer than three years. To be honest, I've been a little spacious in that. Anyway, building a building could take some time. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr. Chairman. This seems like a strategic moment for me to stop talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u4	In my view, Mr Futselaar, like D66, is not in favour of much selection. We see a lot of disadvantages in this. That is why we are looking at these measures. Now I hear you say that there are situations where there is such a huge influx that it becomes very impractical and you need to take emergency measures. The government is also doing this by saying: we want to see if such an emergency measure can be created. Wouldn't that be much better than having the consent requirements dropped immediately in all cases and it becomes a test of three years after that which all students who register up until that time have nothing to do with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u5	As far as I am concerned, the test should not take place after three years. The test can be done, so to speak, in the same year in which the numerus fixus is entered. OCW can then conclude that it is not a valid reason and that there are no capacity problems. So that numerus fixus has to go. I disagree with the government because I believe that there is no other argument for a numerus fixus than a temporary, suddenly emerging capacity problem. It's weird to make an extra handshake and create something extra. I think you should only create a numerus fixus in this case, but if you do, it makes sense that you do not enter into a pre-established procedure. You can't enter it if you have a current and unexpected capacity problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u6	A current capacity problem is that you don't expect so many people to come, but it does happen. The institution couldn't see it coming. If you have a good solution to that, would it not be very good if we did have a check of those consent requirements for consent to the fixus? This is why, for example, the inter-urban student consultation believes that the fixuses should only be set up with a well-reasoned capacity problem. Therefore, a consent requirement is good, because then you have a clear check in advance, and not one afterwards. That's what students who couldn't get in at the time have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u7	Eventually, it also comes down to the question of how much you trust institutions to do this kind of thing properly. I am by nature an extremely cynical person and distrust institutions almost by definition. Fortunately, I also distrust the ministry of OCW, so that is not necessarily a good relationship. I do not really believe that institutions will simply take advantage of this means. I think it will have consequences if an institution is turned on afterwards: you should not have set this numerus fixus at all. I did not sanction the amendment, but it will only happen to you as a driver that you set a fixus and then OCW says that it was done on totally wrong grounds. I can't imagine, for example, that a university council would say: well, mistake, can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u8	I know Mr Futselaar as a colleague who always argues very well in terms of content and substance. Nevertheless, in his speech I heard him say, "without any justification," in a word, really between the nose and the lips. That was when he said: you don't want a numerus fixus at all, except for drugs and stuff. I wondered what is so special about medicine that Mr Futselaar accepts so humbly that without any thought or criticism there is always a numerus fixus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u9	Mr Bruins is right on several levels. First of all, I deliberately did this in a minor way, because I do not really feel like having a discussion here. Traditionally, we have chosen to regulate it for a number of very expensive training courses, which simply cost a lot of money, and train them for a very specific field that is in demand, such as medicines, veterinary medicine and so on. I imagine you're questioning this again whether you should do it that way. I always think of the huge shortage of veterinarians in the Netherlands at the moment, for example with the Dutch Food and War Authority. We ourselves, of course, have also caused that huge deficit. I think that this debate is worthy of discussion, but I did not commit myself to it in this debate, I say in all honesty. That is why I would like to put aside those training courses on which there is often some kind of general political agreement, but it is a debate that is worth conducting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u10	Then I'd like to throw this subject into the lion's den. As far as I am concerned, there is no political agreement, because I also see in these subjects that there is a kind of artificial scarcity which, for example, keeps salaries extremely high. I hope to find Mr Futselaar by my side if we discuss this subject again in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u11	Can you imagine how much cheaper the SP National Care Fund would be if our specialists were not the best-earning specialists in Europe? So I look forward to seeing Mr Bruins' proposal and we will certainly study it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. I often talk from this place about the value of craftsmanship and our internationally highly regarded secondary vocational education, but we may as well be proud of our higher education. Our higher education is one of the world's top and our institutions attract many foreign students. This has a positive impact on our society and on our economy, especially when we manage to retain people for our labour market. Especially in sectors where we can hardly find well-trained staff, for example in the corner of science and technology, those people are worth their weight in gold. The internationalisation of our higher education certainly has a positive side, but at the same time we must note that funding, quality and accessibility of education are under pressure from the rapid increase in the number of international students. This is demonstrated, for example, by the ibo internationalisation mentioned above. The number of places for Dutch students may be under pressure if there is a large influx from abroad. The Dutch taxpayer also pays heavily for the training of foreign students because the tuition they pay is not always cost-effective. And Dutch language skills are also threatened by the large number of English language courses and the large number of foreign language students. In the meantime, the vast majority of the master's programmes are englished. More than three quarters of the masters can only be followed in English and Dutch plays less and less as a language of education and research. This is in fact contrary to the current law, because the WHW prescribes that Dutch is the language of instruction except for exceptions and those exceptions have now become a rule. It is therefore a good thing that this legislative proposal takes measures to ensure the accessibility of our higher education and to strengthen the use of the Dutch language. I would like to make a number of points. First of all, the language of training. Already in the sixteenth century, the mathematician and engineer Simon Stevin worked to promote the use of Dutch scientific terms. He was even supported by Prince Maurits. There was also a time about 130, 140 years ago when ambitious physicists around the world learned Dutch so that they could read manuscripts from our Dutch scientists without the intervention of a translator. Mr. Chairman. The bill is a bit pale about this. It regulates that institutions will now have to demonstrate the added value if they want to use a language other than Dutch as a language in their training. The NVAO will check whether this added value is sufficient. As far as my group is concerned, that is a small but justified step in the right direction. We need to look closely at whether it is really necessary to english all these training courses. Let us not lose sight of the beauty and value of the Dutch language. In this context, the term "added value" still raises questions. We are already seeing a lot of discussion, in the sector and in the written examination of the legislative proposal, about the definition of "added value" and how it should be reviewed. If this measure is intended to prevent unwanted or unnecessary ensnarment, it is questionable whether the added value criterion will succeed. How does the Minister see this? Do we have such objective criteria that the language policy of the institutions can be assessed? Can the Minister promise that the further development of this will go by AMvB, so that we as a Chamber can also have a say in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr Paternotte has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr Bruins just mentioned the beautiful tradition of great physicists we have in the Netherlands. He sketched the beautiful image that there were people in the world who were going to learn Dutch so that they could read the work of our physicists. In modern times, science has a lingua franca. My question is then what Mr Bruins is looking at now. Would he, for example, want a Ben Feringa to publish in Dutch? We do beautiful things in the Netherlands. My feeling is that we can share it much more easily if it is also available in the world language.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr Paternotte and I are in complete agreement. English is the lingua franca of science. My concern would be that in 20 years' time that would be Chinese. And then we have a much harder time in the Netherlands. So we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the training committees in the legislative proposal have an explicit influence on the language of their training. It is good that teachers and students are actively involved in the process of internationalisation and therefore have a say in changing the language. It is precisely the participation bodies closest to the training that have an important role to play here. It is important that higher education institutions properly inform the training committees about this new possibility and precisely inform them about the precise implications of their choices. How can the Minister promote this? We must ensure that the right of assent of training committees is given real teeth and does not become a shambles. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that this bill promotes the practice of foreign students in Dutch expression skills. That's why I mentioned Simon Stevin. However, we do see a lot of criticism from universities and colleges of applied sciences on this point. They are concerned that the Minister is going to interfere too much with how institutions are going to do this. I think that is a valid point. It is good that we ask from a political point of view that colleges and universities promote the Dutch language skills of foreign students, but above all we should not interfere too much in how they do that. The institutions are perfectly capable of doing so themselves. Does the Minister agree with me? Is this secure enough in the law? At the same time, my group considers it important to invest in the language skills of foreign students, especially when they come here for their entire Bachelor's programme. If I were the chairman of a board of directors myself, I would offer every student an intensive Dutch course in his first two weeks. Learning our language helps to preserve people for our labour market. It promotes the stay rate, to say it in very nasty Dutch. What other options do we have, I would ask the Minister, to increase this retention ratio, apart from language policy? Can she elaborate on that? Mr. Chairman. Then the numerus fixus. There is a great deal of concern in the institutions about the new rules. The bill provides that the Minister must give prior authorisation for the use of a fixus. The universities and colleges are concerned about this, because they fear that it is unworkable and because they cannot accommodate the influx of students if the minister forbids a numerus fixus. Can the Minister take those concerns away today? She's not gonna ban all numeri filxi all of a sudden, is she? We continue to look carefully and realistically at the capacity of training, at labour market demand and at the feasibility of the number of students to be admitted. In other words, if an institution proves that a numerus fixus is necessary, then the minister will simply grant it. Can the Minister confirm that? Mr. Chairman. My group is right to think that we should look closely at whether or not to introduce a numerus fixus. There are too many stories of training with a fixus that are then not full and are therefore underutilized, or of training where the question is whether the fixus has been properly established. In any case, I believe that we should deal with this instrument carefully. For some courses we may not want a fixus at all, for others that might be good. I just had a nice little debate with Mr Futselaar on this. In this context, as far as my group is concerned, the labour market perspective should be taken into account. In the legislative proposal, the committee that judges the numerus fixus is also given the opportunity to consider the labour market perspective. But the committee can only do so at the request of the institutions themselves, and perhaps it would be good if we also looked proactively at the need for a numerus fixus in some training courses. You hear how many psychologists, lawyers, communication scientists or sociologists actually need our country? Well, I don't want to put that so sharply, because freedom of choice is a great good thing, but more guidance based on labour market perspective and macro-efficiency would not be wrong for my group, especially now that academies are training more and more for the labour market and not just for a scientific career. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this and how the committee is going to be able to make an assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u19	I think Mr Bruins of the Christian Union speaks wisely about the fixus. We should not deal with that lightly. I am also highly recommended for the debate that we will hopefully have later on on whether we should not abolish this fixus in a number of studies. I also think that this brings a lot of benefits. In any case, it would be good to have that debate. However, I would like to ask Mr Bruins if he also has an idea of how we can ensure that if you start selecting 'cause there are a limited number of places in training courses where there is a fixus, we can do so in a fair way, and how we can ensure that students get all the opportunities. Does he have a visual on that? Should we do that by drawing lots or his other ways of selection in his opinion a better idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u20	There are several schools in it, even here in the Chamber. One says lottery is the fairest, the other says it's based on diploma grades. I myself am a great supporter of motivational conversations, cliffs. That's also because I have my history in relatively small courses where you can do that, with 30, 50 or 70 freshmen. Then you can do that, but it's harder when you have 1,200.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u21	But actually, I would like to give every young person in the Netherlands a cliff talk, one-on-one with a teacher, to look at: why do you want it exactly, what is your motivation, how did you like it at school, where were you good, what were you not good at, why do you want to do this, and what do you think you can do here? It is my dream that this happens with every education and that in this way a large proportion of young people find out themselves during such a conversation that it does not fit very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u22	Nice answer. Perhaps it is also good to discuss this in greater depth at the hopefully next debate, on how to deal with the numerus fixus. How do we ensure that selection takes place in a good way? But does Mr Bruins agree with me that it might also be a good idea that, if we allow a number of training courses to have a capacity fixus, we should give the Minister or the institutions a number of instruments to make that selection in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mrs Westerveld talks about "giving a number of instruments." Yes. At the same time, I think that institutions themselves are very well aware of the possibilities and the instruments they can use. I do attach great importance to the freedom of the institutions and also to the freedom of movement for how you do it. But giving 'a number of instruments' sounds enough to me to say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u24	Thank you. A question from Mr Futselaar. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u25	Like Mr Bruins, I myself have experience with motivational interviews, but with a large degree programme. I am therefore a little less enthusiastic, because it is my experience that it is very pleasant for well-painted, easily sympathetic people, as I would almost say I am. They benefit from this, but a sturdy, quiet boy like Mr Van der Molen, for example, very quickly loses sight of it. I'm making it a little... But it's a serious problem. Research also shows that this method has its limitations. Let me put it this way. There is a fundamental question: is there a fair selection possible with the resources we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u26	I'm the first to acknowledge that I have a limited look, because I've always been in training courses where nice talk didn't help at all. It was pricked right through there. I don't think the ideal world exists here. You have different ways. Maybe you should combine them. Maybe you should weigh them. Think of the one-to-one conversation, attention to that student and customization, for example, to ensure that young people who are slow to start, who have only six but who are extremely motivated and want to work hard, have the opportunity to do an education. I really want to give them that chance. Just those stubborn perseverants, who really want and can put their teeth in something, are the people who build our country in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u27	In conclusion, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u28	My follow-up question concerns the labour market perspective, which Mr Bruins might wish to take into account in a fixus. I have the impression that this is very difficult in practice. In my own province there are currently the most requested vacancies: ICT and GZ psychologist. How is this consistent with the other problems that exist? In their field, we hardly need historians. What's the consequence? Politics is populated with it! You'll find them everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u29	I rest my case, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u30	I'm one of them myself. So it is not so easy to say: this training is only training for this profession. And we already have so many of them, so we need to limit the number. This is a very complex consideration, which is almost unfair. Does Mr Bruins agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u31	I agree with Mr Futselaar that this earth and the whole universe are extremely complex. This is one of those. Mrs Westerveld mentioned earlier in the debate... No, that was in a VAO this morning. She said that technicians are going to work for a large part outside of science, or even outside their field of expertise. Why? Well, they can do anything. You can put them anywhere. So let's train a lot more, because you can use them anywhere. There are, of course, a lot of very wide-ranging training courses. The historians, Mr Futselaar and his colleagues, are also extremely valuable. You can use them extremely widely, because they've learned to think academically. They can think critically and they can see the future from history. So I would not say from any study that it leads to unemployment. Someone who can just think wisely will get a job. So it's pretty complex. At the same time, we know that there are major shortcomings and that there are professions where we are incredibly short of many people. I would really like to place more emphasis on that than we are now daring to do politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u32	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal also provides for the possibility that only a numerus fixus can be carried out on a foreign language course within a Dutch language course. In this way it is possible to respond to capacity problems that arise only on the non-lingual route, without limiting accessibility for Dutch-speaking students. However, the risk may arise that the other-language track will be seen as more prestigious and that the Dutch track will fill itself with students who did not pass through the selection of the other-language track. How do we guarantee the quality of both tracks, I ask the Minister. Finally, Mr President. Simon Stevin praised the ability of the Dutch language to move and convince. Let's cherish his beautiful words like "triangle," "medium line," "parts" and "root pulling." But let us not be unnecessarily afraid that Dutch will perish without protection, as long as we see words from our language, such as "pump," "polder," "dijk" and "dam," in international words and even in twentieth-century Dutch inventions like the blow skating, basketball and, yes, the rollator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you. I looked in the direction of Mrs Van den Hul, but she already came forward for her input. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul. It shall give its contribution on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead, ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This time I've got everything I need. Today it is a lot about the problems of internationalisation, but let me begin by saying that internationalisation is primarily an enrichment of our education. Fortunately, more and more students experience this in person. Whether it is as a Dutch student abroad or as an exchange student in the Netherlands, an international study experience I really do give everyone. I say this both as a former student who studied Arabic in Tunisia and as a former teacher at a class of different nationalities, here at the Hague University of Applied Sciences. But of course it's not just roses and moonshine. Several institutions and student organisations rightly warn that there are limits to growth, while many employees, researchers and teachers have long reached the limits. It is not for nothing that hundreds of scientists, under the leadership of WoinAction, have already reported to the inspection because of too high a workload. So it is clear that something must be done. Then the first question we need to ask ourselves is: what problem exactly solves the proposals on language and accessibility? There are two things that stand out. First of all, we must continue to discuss language in proportion. I say this as a daughter of a Dutch teacher. The idea that Dutch should be the absolute language of teaching in our higher education is now really an outdated discussion, donquixoterie, as Fathernotte called it so beautiful. I immediately think of the lecturer of the Year 2019 elected by the ISO, Calvin Rans of TU Delft, a Canadian lecturer in Aerospace Engineering. For example, there are many examples of driven top teachers from all over the world who are settling in our country for a shorter or longer period of time, because of our academic climate, because of our top institutions and because of the opportunities our country offers them. We want to preserve these opportunities, not only for top teachers and researchers, but also for non-European students. The purpose of the law we are discussing today is twofold in this respect. It aims to ensure accessibility for Dutch students while at the same time controlling the influx of international students. But access must also be guaranteed for those international students as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u36	A question from Mr Van der Molen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u37	My question is based on Mrs Van den Hul's statement that the whole idea that we should be teaching Dutch is outdated. She's linking that very much to accessibility. Before she talks about the African student who would like to come to the Netherlands, I would like to mention another example of a little closer. I've had a lot of tech students, regular boys and girls who want to take that step, at my table. They complained that, in addition to an apology, which was very complicated, they also had to show some kind of bilingualism, which meant that they could not actually go on in that first year, while they could do it on the basis of their technical skills. Are you saying to those students that they should get used to the fact that they will be fully English-speaking in the Netherlands, or are you also worried about the accessibility of education to that type of student?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u38	It is true that this situation also exists. I fully agree with Mr Van der Molen that accessibility must also be guaranteed for Dutch students. That is why it is very important to ensure that the whole educational pipeline is in order. We're still freaked out by falling PISA scores this week. I will come back to that later in my speech. We can see that students' reading skills are deteriorating. Unfortunately, language skills in other languages are sometimes also deteriorating. Fortunately, we also read that the Dutch language level is still very positive at international level. It's been referred to a few times. But I fully agree with Mr Van der Molen that it is very important to ensure that everyone can come along and that the language should never constitute a threshold for participation in a study.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u39	In conclusion, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u40	In the latter I can go along very well, in the sense that the language should never be a threshold, but you started your statement by saying that there is some kind of rearguard fight that we at least have the education in Dutch multilingual or otherwise, and then you suddenly switched very much in your care to groups that would like to come here. This is something I would like to point out to you at the moment when we are not going to deal with it, and I hope that you will agree with the CDA. We are also losing students who are not as easily involved in, for example, a full English education or who are not as well-spoken as you and I might wish for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u41	That is a complex question which Mr Van der Molen is putting before us. What I was just referring to and what it was about earlier in terms of donquixoterie, is that of course we should not pretend to be sitting here on an island with each other. The Netherlands and therefore our Dutch academic sector and our Dutch researchers are connected to an increasingly internationalising world, where the lingua franca that used to be Latin and then French is English. This means that a large part of the literature you will have to study as a student is also in English and that you will also have to publish in English. That takes a bit of your language skills. We certainly have to invest in this and that starts very early in the p.o. and the vo. There are certainly concerns there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u42	There is still a difference between having to publish and reading literature in a particular language and being consistently taught in that language. We run into the situation that Dutch-speaking students of Dutch-speaking origin receive lessons from Dutch-speaking teachers. For example, the groups that suffer most from this are stackers, people who reach the university via an MBO and HBO route and are suddenly confronted with a level of English that they have never had before and then run into an additional barrier. Does the PvdA see that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u43	Oh, yeah. I have already asked in other sections and debates for extra care for the most vulnerable students. We see that stackers, first-generation students and other students who may have gotten a little less from home are at greater risk of failure. If this is one of the factors involved, I would say that you should help those students to invest in their language skills, even if it is in English.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u44	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u45	If English is a big barrier here, then you can also say that we have to help those students to cross that barrier, but I think it makes more sense to remove the barrier. I would like to add one more thing, because I went to look a little bit too. The university in Europe, which according to the lists is most highly regarded outside the English language area, is the Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zurich, where Einstein studied. If you look at their website, there is education: you can take all kinds of Bachelor's programmes with us but they are all in German. And that's how the rest of the world handles this. We're an exception. We're not the rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u46	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about international students and that accessibility should remain secure for them. My question is how this relates to the proposals to charge students their administrative costs for graduation and a contribution to language courses and enrolment fees. How does the Minister ensure that not only students with a thick wallet get access to our higher education and Dutch institutions do not become Oxford at the Amstel, Oxford with a d, let me say in the direction of the people who wrote the college agreement here with a t- or Cambridge on the Meuse? Our concern is clear. This proposal threatens to increase inequality of opportunity. Let me start with the international students. That is what we are concerned about. As shown by ISO, LSVb and ESN's Annual International Student Survey, many international students struggle to find accommodation but also to find their place in Dutch society. Sometimes poignant situations, such as a separate entrance week, are of course not helpful. By the way, why doesn't the Ministry carry out that research that is now being carried out by student organisations itself? I also express a special concern here about the position of foreign scholarship students who are neither students nor employees and are therefore often unable to claim existing facilities and are therefore particularly vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u47	End of cup?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u48	End of cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u49	I recognize what Mrs van den Hul says about the pressure on the facilities. In Delft, for example, the municipality also complains about this: if a lot of students come, we simply cannot act here. It puts pressure on the housing market and on the rental market. This also increases the prices for Dutch students who were already looking for a room. So this is not exactly one of those points where the PvdA also says: "That is why we must pay close attention to the influx and also give the education space to be able to steer it, also in consultation with municipalities. We have to give them the confidence so that they can get it right. We can't do that from here"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u50	I will return to that selection in a moment, so I would ask Mr Wiersma to be patient for a moment. Then there's the point of the housing market. These are precisely the points on which we are very concerned. That is why we are also making many proposals to ensure that much more is invested in accessible social housing, including for students and also for start-ups in the housing market. Those are the people who are very difficult to find a place to live right now. So you can't separate this from each other. I also find it a little too easy to project all of that into this law now. But is there some kind of congestion, because the pressure is increasing enormously? Yes, I do, and I will come back to that in detail later in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u51	Very brief, finalizing. I'm really gonna call on you to keep the interruptions short, and so are the answers. Otherwise, we're really gonna be in a time trap tonight. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u52	Then I wait for the answer about accessibility, but this is also just a reality call: this is happening in those cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u53	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u54	Does it have to be solved? We can say from here that everyone is welcome, but it just can't always be. And then I think you have a little butter on your head, when you say as a party: then we have to plan here at the housing market... We have the problem now. That's what we need to solve now. So we must now also give room for institutions to offer these solutions. So let us have a little understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u55	That is why my party is putting forward proposals to ensure that there is much more investment in housing than Mr Wiersma's party wants. Mr. Chairman. There are also good points in the Minister's proposals to involve international students more in the Netherlands. But then things will get really crazy again, for example when it comes to Dutch expression skills. Because then all of a sudden it's all students, but what if you're only here for one semester? Of course we also want to maintain or improve their expression skills for Dutch-speaking students, but I said that just a short while ago in the interrupting debate that I had on this subject, that really starts in primary education. There, classes are still sent home every day because of the shortage of teachers. See also the sad PISA scores, among others on reading skills, which became known last week and on which we heard fellow Minister Slob suggest as a solution that grandparents should read to their children more often, rather than starting to bridge the pay gap between p.o. And vo, but that aside. Of course, offering Dutch lessons is a good plan, just like reading to children. But compulsory participation in Dutch lessons, let alone compulsory participation in Dutch lessons, we really find a bridge too far. Another concern is the level of institutional tuition fees and the selection in the form of numeri fili. Within the limits of current funding, we can imagine anything in the interest of placing caps at institutional level, where necessary. I have already mentioned limits to growth, but the question is: in what way? How do we ensure that this selection does not cause higher thresholds and extra divisiveness again, something including student organisations to warn about? Selection is always tricky. It was just there in a couple of interrupting debates about "whatever you do, it's never good." Whether it's about selection based on resumes or conversations or motivation letters, everything indicates that the odds are decreasing as selection increases. In this context, I am also very curious about the update on my previously adopted motion on research into self-selection in higher education. It is also unclear which review requirements the Minister will apply before institutions can proceed to numeri fili. I have a number of questions about this. How does the Minister assess the proposal of, among other things, the Association of Colleges of Higher Education to have that review carried out afterwards, as also stated in Mr Futselaar's amendment? Who is ultimately liable if the Minister does not authorise the establishment of a numerus fixus, but the institution does reach the limits of its capacity? And how does the Minister take things into account as a workload? We do not agree with the proposal in the letter of amendment to extend the period of a numerus fixus from two years to three years, because if working pressure or staff shortages contribute to those capacity problems, it requires other and, above all, faster measures. Then there's the issue of institution tuition fees. This bill seeks to send...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u56	You can finish your sentence. Mr. Wiersma will wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u57	... on both influx and income via tuition. This cup is about institution tuition, so I'd like to finish that. It is completely unclear to us what the basis for this is, and this is perhaps even more important to us as to its impact on access to and equal opportunities in our higher education. Is it effective to send in via tuition fees? What does this mean for diversity? For non-EEA students, a minimum tuition fee has been chosen; why not a maximum? I was talking to Mr Wiersma earlier. I suspect I know why: because of the €69,000 to €97,000 that non-EEA students produce, as the CPB calculated earlier this year. But isn't this the most perverse incentive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u58	I see Mr Wiersma has a question. Short and concise. So no long introduction, because you want to be able to interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u59	Mrs Van den Hul referred to Mr Futselaar's amendment and asked questions about the proposal of the Association of Colleges. I am curious to see how she looks at this herself and what is the framework for her consideration. Does she support what is in the proposal of the Association of Colleges, or does she find it interesting to support Mr Futselaar's proposal? What's her opinion on that? 'Cause I hear her asking questions, but I haven't heard what she thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u60	I am very curious to hear the Minister answer my question, but as I said very clearly, we do not agree with the proposal in the letter of amendment to extend that period from two to three years, because we think it is sometimes necessary, if there are capacity problems, to adjust faster and in other ways. I was at the pay model with non-EEA students. My question is: what is the Minister doing to give students from low-income countries the opportunity to study here? I am standing here not only as an educational spokesperson, but also as a spokesman for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. For Minister Kaag, education is important in its international policy, as is the international importance of this minister's education policy. And yet, despite these interfaces, there is still little visible connection between both agendas. In fact, sometimes these agendas seem to contradict each other. Where BZ invests in alumni, local presence, development, focus regions, knowledge missions and scholarship programmes, we now see OCW mainly making retreating movements, such as removing the subsidy for the Holland Alumni network, the Neso's, and the lack of an active presence in countries where the Netherlands can position itself as a knowledge country. A common strategy, in which the SDGs, the sustainable development goals, could serve as a source of inspiration, would, as far as we are concerned, be a huge step forward in this respect. Finally, Mr President. The Council of State was also critical of this law, in particular because there is a direct link between capacity issues, inflow and funding. The Council of State therefore even calls the law premature in some sense. Why then, if we are still waiting for the results of the funding study and the impact of the measures in the wake of the Van Rijn report? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u61	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. Mrs Westerveld speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the treatment of the law, I'd like to zoom out. The reputation of Dutch education is greater than our scarce surface suggests. "What a small country can be big in" certainly goes for our higher education. Because knowledge is not limited by national boundaries and research is not only done in Dutch. Skills are also taught not only in Dutch. It is precisely for this reason that a certain form of internationalisation is of benefit to our education. This benefits not only the knowledge and skills of teachers, but also those of our Dutch students, because it enables them to put their language skills into practice, to learn how to deal with other cultures and also to gain inspiration through internationalisation to look at issues differently or to study abroad for a period of time. We also borrow many words from other languages, for example because they are new words. During my philosophy study it became quite clear to me what the power of language is and how we often cannot separate concepts from the spirit of time and culture. I told you, I studied philosophy. Heidegger's concept of "Dasein," for example, has a very powerful meaning in German. But if we try to translate that into Dutch, there is little of this powerful understanding left. This also applies to many other words. Take, for example, Nietzsche's concept of "Übermensch," not to be confused with the meaning that the national socialists later gave to this word. With this word Nietzsche gave meaning to people who try to separate themselves from the system, who dare to make decisions in their own responsibility. Try translating this word into Dutch. Or in English: then it gets all silly, because then you get "superman." We can talk about this for a very long time, but that is different from what Nietzsche meant by it, of course. This kind of example shows that we learn a lot from other cultures and that we learn a lot from other languages. They can really enrich our education. We sometimes need other languages in our education. We should just use that, for example, in a study of philosophy. It is clear that my group believes in the strength of the international link in education, not as a dogma, but because the world does not stop at our borders. We often see things go wrong, because internationalisation should not be a model of earning. In recent years, several news reports and opinion papers have rightly been published on the shadow side of internationalisation. In some cases, internationalisation has been an instrument, including of educational institutions, to maintain budgets, for example by asking for very high tuition fees. The one-sided focus on student numbers in funding is a cause of this. So we also need to look at our own role in the Chamber. We also see that higher education is under pressure. This is evident from a number of cases. It shows, for example, that the budget per student has declined considerably in this century. That was mentioned earlier in this debate. We see that the state contribution per student has been around 25% lower since 2000. So we really put a lot of pressure on our educational institutions. Those are political choices. It has to be said: despite the incomprehensible redistribution of scarcity, the Van Rijn Committee has also produced something good, for example a first step towards less output financing, less focus on quantity and a higher foothold. That is a long-cherished wish from, among other things, my group. Several political parties have contributed to the perverse incentives of internationalisation in higher education. Institutions also play a role in this from time to time. I think that is quite understandable, given the pressure we put on institutions. However, I would like to stress here that education institutions should not recruit foreign students, but that these students should sleep on arrival in the streets or in tents, because of housing. That's not an exaggeration, it's just reality. We hear from different cities examples of students who have to sleep in a car or tent, or who have to go to another student every night, simply because they don't have a room. Parents or other family members live too far away. Because you don't just go up and down to another country every day. We can see that this is being handled too easily. We see that institutions often see that as a primary responsibility of the student, but we find that too easy. Nor does it correspond to experience abroad. In the United Kingdom, for example, where there is also a lot of internationalisation, the institutions sometimes offer students their own accommodation. Accommodations are offered by educational institutions or there is a lot of close contact with the landlords. I would also like to say to this Minister that this can be done better in the Netherlands. That is why I would like to ask her how she looks at her responsibility for international students when it comes to housing. Does the Minister also agree with us that an annual monitoring of housing in the Student Housing Action Plan is insufficient, or at least has not produced enough results so far? What would the Minister say should happen? Does the Minister consider that the municipalities are sufficiently in dialogue with the educational institutions in their own municipality? I see at least in a number of places that this can be done even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u63	A question from Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u64	The focus is now very much on housing and I wholeheartedly support that. The spokespersons on the student housing dossier, including those of the SP and of other parties, are getting along very well in order to organise this better. You indicated that it is also a number of political choices. In particular, the influx of international students causes this type of capacity problem. I would like to have your response to two points. The first is that programmes that quickly english attract many more international students. These training courses themselves indicate that they must be able to control them. Do you think that the extra testing of the engulation of training is a sensible step in this respect too? Point two. If you say that we need to deal with internationalisation more wisely, are you also in favour of regulating these student flows more effectively, as proposed, for example, by VVD and CDA? These are also political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr. Chairman. I was still at my introduction. I have a number of other points that I am going to make and also a number of objections. Mr Van der Molen asked if I would send a little more on that influx myself. At least that was one of his questions. Of course, we must also be careful with internationalisation. We must be careful not to put too much pressure on our institutions, even in view of the funding they have now, because we simply see that this influx is rising enormously. Of course we understand that you need a number of steering tools, but the question is what to focus on. We discussed earlier in this debate that you can also steer by substantially increasing college fees. Is that one of your steering tools? If it's GroenLinks, it's not. If it is up to GroenLinks, we will ensure that we hold that equality of opportunity of students in the Netherlands, but also of students from abroad, high. The first point was that some studies, some training courses are rapidly changing and whether we should not keep a finger on the pulse, if I translate it as well. The law makes it very clear that the starting point is that courses are offered in Dutch, unless... and that there must be some guarantees before such training can be offered in English. For example, the NVAO needs to look at that. If it is up to my group, we would also ensure that students and teachers have more to say about the training and that they, for example in a training committee, can indicate whether or not they want such training to be offered in English. In any case, that seems to me to be two ways in which you can keep your finger on the wrist, also to prevent us from having only English-language training at our institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u67	Mrs Westerveld quite rightly denounces the problem of international students coming here and not finding the accommodation they need because they can't actually commute. This happens very often in cities, where in recent years GroenLinks is often on the board. There you can see that they tighten the rules in areas that could have made it easier for students to find living space, for example housing parts. Would you then support me in calling for the social housing stock to become more accessible to students and for the rules on housing sharing to be relaxed so that students do not get in the way? That housing question is huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u68	This is an issue that is taking place in Amsterdam. I am not fully aware of what has been agreed and what has not been agreed. I know that it is a very complicated discussion and that a lot of students are also afraid that they will be put out on the street, while on the other hand I hear that at least that is not the purpose of that plan. Anyway, I'm not on the city council in Amsterdam. What I am very much in favour of is that we see the Dutch housing market much less as a market and take much more account of social rental, that we ensure throughout the Netherlands that homes remain affordable for everyone. We should not regard this housing market primarily or simply as a market where money has to be earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u69	Finalizing, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u70	In fact, let us not have the debate on the housing market right now, although I say that there is also, of course, a limit to how much you can afford to offer, with the market indirectly subsidising it, and that limit has been reached in Amsterdam. But are you willing to look with me at where we can relax rules in the Netherlands and where we can help municipalities to make it easier for students to find a home? At the moment, the movement is going in the wrong direction in many cities, not only in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u71	I was a city councilman myself in Nijmegen. This may also explain why I am not fully aware of the situation in Amsterdam. We had that discussion in Nijmegen, too. At some point, people wanted to be able to convert offices more easily, even in the municipality, to meet students' desire to rent a house there temporarily or for a longer period of time. That was kind of complicated. There's a whole bunch of rules to it that couldn't do that. I know that we have also crossed the line of those rules. It seems very good to me to pick this up together. Of course, I have a lot of contact with those in my group who speak about Living, but let us also sit down with a larger group. I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u72	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u73	Before we have a whole discussion here about the housing market, I'm gonna move on to the bill. We are, of course, debating today the Language and Accessibility Act, which lies ahead of us. Let me point out that we have also seen laws passed that were more clear than this one. This is a legal amendment of 16 pages with an explanation of 85 pages and then another 14 pages of further changes. They caused a lot of spit work in my group. I assume that was the case with the other colleagues. But also for policy makers who should implement this law, this does not necessarily improve clarity. This raised the question of how the law before us relates to the Compatibility Act. Article 3.1 of that law clearly states that the explanation of a legislative proposal should address questions such as what objectives should be achieved, what is the effectiveness of the law and what is the efficiency that should be pursued. I keep missing those criteria in the bill. In other words, we do not see very well what this complicated, big law is a clear answer to. The Council of State considers that the explanatory memorandum of the legislative proposal should also reflect more clearly "the specific problems which the proposal should solve and the causes of these problems." The financial consequences must also be transparent under the Compatibility Act. I have my doubts as to whether the Language and Accessibility Act also meets those criteria. We have also asked written questions about this. The replies to that written input show that the administrative burden for institutions wishing to use a numerus fixus is around €117,300, and then compliance costs are added. This would cost approximately €176,000. But the same answer also shows that the legislative proposal allows for a reduction in administrative burdens. However, this is not further quantified. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if she can explain what is going on. Mr. Chairman. The law intends to promote Dutch expression skills for Dutch and non-Dutch students. That sounds nice, of course. My group also believes that a good Dutch mastery of Dutch is very important for Dutch students. And my group also believes that international students should be able to take lessons voluntarily in order to learn how to master the Dutch language better. Because we just know that when people from other countries come here, it has advantages if they can speak Dutch. This contributes to a better stay. It also increases the chance that international students will linger here for a few more years. And it also makes international students feel more at home in this country. There's another side to it, though. Research carried out by the student organisations shows that two out of three international students in this country are lonely. I've always learned: the sun goes up for nothing. The bill does not provide additional financial resources to institutions to facilitate education in the Dutch language. No additional financial resources will be made available to further stimulate the expression skills of non-Dutch students. No additional financial resources will be made available to further stimulate the expression skills of Dutch students. That's what I just said. The latter is salient, because Article 1.3, fifth paragraph states that the Minister may, by general measure, give more details of the obligation to promote the Dutch expression skills of Dutch-speaking students. In other words, with this legislative proposal, educational institutions are given an explicit social mandate, one that can be further translated into, for example, a measurable language level by general measure of government. And is it going to be C1, or C2 or another level? I'd like to ask the Minister. And I also wonder how the Minister sees this additional obligation for institutions in the light of her recent ruling in NRC Handelsblad. In it, the Minister indicated that there might be 1 billion more in higher education. That is an appeal that I would like to support, but on the other hand, of course, we are imposing additional obligations on institutions. And, Mr. Chairman, there's more crooked. Because last week the PISA report was published, which contains an international comparison between several countries. The report shows that the language skills of Dutch 15-year-olds have been steadily declining since 2003. That PISA report first appeared in 2003. Of course, this decline also has implications for further education, i.e. for rocks, for colleges and for universities. Because because of this they need to get more and more started to teach Dutch young people, who are less and less mastering Dutch, the Dutch language better. The response of the Ministry to this report by PISA was that there should be a reading offensive. The Minister actually said: let parents, family members, grandparents read children more often, for example. I can only support that, but it does not alter the fact that much more needs to be done to stop that falling line, that decline in language skills. And that responsibility lies, of course, in the fundamental education system, but it must also be extended to rocks, colleges and universities. We see a field of tension there, because you can also see that almost two out of every three university staff indicate that they are suffering from physical or psychological complaints due to high workload. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this. What should higher education do less to ensure that it can also promote Dutch expression skills? Why didn't the Minister attach extra funding to this extra task? Doesn't last week's PISA report show that it's time to invest in Dutch language skills? Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about Article 1.3 of this bill. Not in the proposal, but later by General Measure of Board can be included how institutions should implement the obligation to promote Dutch expression skills of Dutch students. Then we read: for example, a mandatory level of expression skills can be considered as part of the knowledge and skills that a student must have acquired at the end of the course. This is stated in the explanatory memorandum. It also states that the rules may also cover, for example, the provision of specific language guidance to the student. My group has quite a few reservations about this back door, because it is potentially giving the Minister an instrument to force a test of Dutch expression skills. Possibly, the Minister will also be given the instrument to impose a mandatory number of hours of Dutch lessons per year, for example. I see the minister shaking her head, so I hope she'll be able to explain why we're wrong. Because the way we read it, this is a central control. I'd like to ask the Minister to comment on that later. I would also ask her if, if she sets this standard, she would like to involve Parliament in detail. Isn't the bill much better off without this back door? Does the Minister agree that such a standard cannot be set without additional funding for educational institutions in order to achieve that standard? Then the numerus fixus. Because it would not be surprising if I said that my group is generally not in favour of this. Because this reduces students' freedom of choice or even worse: it also reduces the accessibility of training courses and leads to selection. We all know that every kind of selection also leads to a form of inequality of opportunity, except for lottery tickets. The legislative proposal before us provides that the numerus can only be introduced for courses of foreign language. Here the situation arises that with the same training within an institution the Dutch track can't handle numerus fixus, but the other language part can. Student associations indicate to us that they are afraid that this will lead to self-selection and elite education. In addition, many numerus-fixus courses have an extensive selection process. I've just indicated why we're opposed to that. For example, I have recently asked written questions about decentralised selection in medicine courses. What we see there, for example, is that commercial tutoring centres shoot out of the ground like mushrooms to offer special trainings for this purpose. You can even indicate at which institution you want to study, for which certain additional skills are needed. Then those commercial centers can make a customized trajectory for you, so you can practice very well for that test. No doubt that works very well, that leads to good extra test results and that leads to people getting through that selection easier. But if you look at the price tag, I don't find it so conducive to the equality of opportunity. That is why I am asking the Minister whether it is possible to apply selection not only to exceptional training courses. Is it possible to continue on draw? I also ask her why drawing lots is not included in the bill. Do you think she could respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Students and teachers are the closest to the training courses and also suffer the consequences of capacity problems, if there are any. As far as my group is concerned, it is quite natural to give students and teachers the right to vote before a capacity fixus is adopted. I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to give this right of assent to training committees, in which students and lecturers sit together. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the feasibility, because a law must be enforceable for institutions. Too often it is invented here that policies do not fit in well with practice. That's what we call GroenLink's "sign table politics." Then it can be very good on paper, but in practice it is not always feasible. The Association of Colleges of Higher Education is an urgent indication that the current bill is not enforceable for them. They call for greater control of institutions, and urgently call on the Court to amend the law so that it is enforceable. For example, they say that by checking the numerus fixus not in advance, but afterwards for legality. The SP has tabled an amendment on this. My group certainly understands the amendment, but we would also like participation to have the right to consent to a numerus fixus. This could also be the case, for example, in the training committee. Is the Minister prepared to include this in the law? Mr. Chairman. Then the institution tuition fees. I was chairman of the National Student Union ten years ago, when former Minister Plasterk decided to introduce the institutional tuition fee for the second study. I can tell you, and I have told the Minister many times, that we were not very good at the time. I still don't quite understand that, because higher tuition fees - and that is institutional tuition fees - are contrary to the ambition to promote lifelong learning. I also found it incomprehensible, particularly during the financial crisis that began then, that students were not motivated to continue studying, but instead, applying for benefits became much more attractive. I can also assure you that it costs a lot more to provide a monthly benefit than to allow someone to study. That was therefore an incomprehensible and frustrating measure at the time. There is little this Minister can do about that, but that was my objections at the time, and they still are. Here in the Chamber I have already put forward a number of proposals on institutional tuition fees, including the proposal to allow students with a second education or care course to pay the low rate. These are sectors where there are incredible deficits. We have both a huge shortage of teachers, which goes on, and a huge shortage of care. We must therefore ensure that as many students as possible receive a second degree in one of these sectors, so that we can hopefully work there later. Together with Mr Van Meenen of D66, I have tabled a motion asking that students never pay more than the cost-covering amount. Of course, the fact that this is being performed is only very nice. At the same time, there will be a minimum rate for institutions to ask students from outside the EEA. This is what my group is frowning at, because this also means that students from developing countries, for example, will be given an additional financial threshold. Mrs van den Hul rightly referred to this. My group, GroenLinks, cherishes the fact that there are, for example, students from Bangladesh coming to the Netherlands to study water management here, so that they can make their country safer with the knowledge gained here. For example, there are many more examples of students from other countries who benefit greatly from training here, and then use the knowledge here or in the country of origin. My question to the Minister is: why is it imposing this minimum rate on institutions? Is it not better for institutions to decide for themselves so that they can distinguish between rich international students and students from developing countries, for example? What is the Minister going to do to prevent this from leading to a drop in students from poorer countries? With this increase in institutional tuition fees, does the Minister not negate all the efforts of her colleague, Minister Kaag? After all, it is working on various programmes to offer students from developing countries a perspective on education in the Netherlands. Mr President, my final point. True internationalisation also requires, of course, that we bring students into contact with each other. It's just a shame if students from another country go to the Netherlands, but above all have contact with each other and have little contact with Dutch students, or if Dutch students go abroad and go there together and live with each other. We see some very good examples of how institutions and training deal with this. I remember from my time that at one of the student complexes we had the famous gang-Spanjaard. Each hallway actually had its own Spanish-speaking student. Of course, that worked very well. If you live and study between Dutch-speaking students, this will lead to a nice collaboration with each other. This also makes students feel more at home in the Netherlands. Similar examples can also be seen in student organisations. For example, the football club where I played myself always had room for students from other countries, so that they could participate in the football matches in the Netherlands. We must also do everything we can to motivate international students to become part of our student community. My final questions are about that. Is it true that students from other countries are often not covered by the Profiling Fund, the fund from which grants are paid, because criteria are taken into account in the old study funding system? If you're from another country and you weren't entitled to study funding, you're not entitled to a scholarship now. At least that's how we read the law. If so, is the Minister prepared to delete this article of law, so that international students can also receive grants for participation work, for work at a student organisation or in the event of illness? Mr President, I think I was quite clear. My group is critical of the law before us. We have also asked a number of critical questions about this. We are very curious about the Minister's answers, because our agreement depends on that. Finally, I would like to stress that this law is about accessibility, about language, about workload, and all in all about equal opportunities. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is an essential part of our society and also of our internationalisation policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u74	Thank you. There is a short question from Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u75	Yes, on the fixus and on the right of assent that Mrs Westerveld wants to give to the training committees. Is that instead of the consent requirement or the consent requirement? After all, we do not yet have the amendment. Then there's my second question. Suppose there is no agreement of participation, but there is a capacity problem. Then how are you going to fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u76	I said in my contribution that if there is a capacity problem, those who suffer from it first, are the staff and the students. It would therefore be very strange for them to say, in the case of a capacity problem, that we do not want a fixus. If that happens, they will undoubtedly have a very good reason for doing so, and that is why I would like them to be more closely involved. I also indicated that I see a great deal in the amendment tabled by Mr Futselaar of the SP, which assumes that institutions can assess whether or not they want to set up the capacity fixus. I understand the considerations very well. A sudden increase in the number of registrations cannot be predicted two or three years in advance, but I would like the training committee to be better involved in this whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u77	Thank you for your input. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen, who is speaking on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I'm looking at the clock, it's about 16:10 and we haven't even heard the minister yet. I notice in myself that I am very curious about all the answers to the many questions that have been asked. I had asked for a rather large speaking time and with this much too long introduction we are going to complete it. I would particularly like to focus on those points which are important to us. The Dutch language as an anchor point also in this law, but also the way we deal with language choices at universities and colleges are important points for the CDA. We see this as a point that has everything to do with accessibility. I had a very small discussion about it with colleague Van den Hul. Language is a key to a lot of things you could do in your life for your future career. By the way, not everyone makes such a distant international career. That image is sometimes displayed, but that does not apply to many people and does not have to apply to them. But it shouldn't be a way to shut the door for students who could actually do it but couldn't make this step. I was struck by an article that appeared at the BBC at the end of 2018. To use a little bit of English in this contribution, the title was "Dutch language besieged by English at university." It was written from some sort of wonder, because a journalist only writes about something that deviates. Especially that English word 'besieged', constantly under fire, was found very interesting. I agree with a point made by Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP. He said that if you look at other countries, the full engeling as we see it in the Netherlands with the masters, is not the norm at all. We're not the norm. That was also the surprise with which the BBC looked at our higher education from a British and English perspective. How is it that people in the Netherlands are running after them like that? If you look at Germany, Flanders or Scandinavian countries, you will see that these countries do not allow for international reality at all. Yet they make a very different choice. I would like to say that it is particularly well-founded, of course, not everyone in the Netherlands can easily ignore it, because in our language there is not only what we need to know in order to function in society or to do a job. As demonstrated by the Social Cultural Planning Agency, it is also part of our identity. The Dutch think very different about a lot of things, but when the Social Cultural Planning Agency asks about the Dutch language, it is said across all layers: that is what we share with each other. I should like to look again at the wonder with which the British look at the Dutch situation. Then it seems to us to be very easy, as if language is just something practical that you need to be able to communicate. I would argue that higher education should be the key to opening up an international career, but these institutions should not only maintain a language level. They're also here to guard this with us. That is not a nationalist attitude at all, but these institutions make a wonderful contribution to our language and to keeping it alive. They also contribute that young people know enough Dutch to acquire a place in our society. I would like to give it to every international student to acquire as much Dutch as possible, so that they can work successfully here too. I was also not surprised that over 180 prominent people wrote a piece from political background, social, art, literature and educational institutions themselves a long time ago. They wrote that we do it very easily in the Netherlands: we easily ignore the language we speak with each other at the coffee machine; then we suddenly have to speak English to each other in a consultation. Something is lost in that, even more so than sometimes we cannot express ourselves at all in relation to each other. Mr. Chairman. I've been able to make a lot of work visits. I am quite critical of how we internationalise, not that we internationalize, but how we internationalise. Education institutions then say: Van der Molen is coming along, so we have to do a major part of internationalisation. That always goes quite well and quite well, and there is always one permanent part: the uncomfortable conversation with a group of Dutch students with one international student. I often have a member of the board sitting next to me trying to convince me that things are going well. That conversation is incredibly difficult, because everyone suddenly has to speak in a different language and, I confess, often it is also the members of the boards who do not score best in relation to other staff at participating in those conversations in English. I fully understand that, and it is not easy, but it shows that, fortunately, with internationalisation, we are now at a stage where we do not have to discuss with each other whether we want to internationalise. I didn't start this contribution either, because I think it's important. I don't think that's the point at all. Internationalisation in the Netherlands is mature. We didn't start it, we're doing it, and we can have an adult conversation about how we want to internationalise and what we do and what we don't do in there. The pavlov reaction is very often: yes, but if you are critical of it, you are against internationalisation. I don't get it at all. I saw a written piece by my colleague Paternotte from D66 together with another D66'er, in which he and passant gave a tap to my colleague from the SP because he has doubts about, among other things, the englishment in higher education, and to my colleague from the VVD, Mr Wiersma, who says that everyone is welcome, but also believes that as a country you have every right to make choices in policy. I don't understand. The moment you argue that you want to steer, that you have to have a talent program, that you also have to want to choose and that you make the influx qualitative, doesn't mean you're against internationalisation. Mr Futselaar is not against internationalisation, per se, because he questions what the englishing does with the accessibility of higher education. So that's what I wanted to start with, Mr. Chairman. I think that is a totally false contradiction. There are parties who are more nationalistic about this. Everyone says it as he wants to say it, but I want to remove that false contradiction. At least that does not apply to the CDA, but we are critical of the fact that it also has a number of shadowy sides that we will have to work on together with institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u79	A brief question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u80	The image presented by Mr Van der Molen seems to me to be a somewhat gloomy picture. He says there's a false contradiction. That'd be great. Then my question would be: do we agree that there is not really a problem? If you then outline such a situation where indeed one international student is present and it is proposed to speak English... I am proud that we in the Netherlands have the choice to say: okay, then we switch to the world language, then everyone can participate. Do you share that feeling with me? Or do you say: no, you should really leave that international student out of that conversation, because it is important that we speak Dutch with each other at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u81	English is a world language, but I oppose the idea that we in the Netherlands need to speak English with each other because you can only be part of it. I think the key to participating in Dutch society is that you also master Dutch. I think multilingualism is the key that everyone wants and not just 100% English, and that would be my next point. The international student who can also make contact with the Dutch student because he masters Dutch to some extent, but also the Dutch student who knows how to express himself in English and German. I see another kind of contradiction there. Let me be honest: I find it ridiculous that we have entire university campuses in the Netherlands where you can no longer find a sign with a Dutch text. I've heard your colleague say that before. If you think that makes it easy for people to find a place here, I think you're doing it wrong. I think you should help them to get a place here and you do so in the Netherlands based on the Dutch language. I also think that the quality of education can be affected if you offer courses in full English. I think that we can talk about this very well, because we are maturely thinking about internationalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u82	I will conclude by giving the floor to Mr Paternotte, but I would point out that interruptions will gain strength if they are shorter and more concise. I am looking at the clock, because a number of colleagues still have to have a debate after us. Mr. Paternotte, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr Van der Molen mentions a lot of things that I think are a little more English and we have solved that problem. Take, for example, those résumé members. Yes, they are often people who have been to university at a time when everything was still in Dutch and they didn't have the chance to learn a little English in their studies. So if we flush through a few generations, don't you think that we have solved that problem precisely because we have so beautifully anchored English in our academy these days?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u84	No, I do not agree with Mr Paternotte. Mr Paternottes' final picture is that everyone speaks English and that we can understand each other well. I disagree. I think we should all be able to speak English. I also think it is a good thing that this is done in secondary education and in primary school, because young people need to be able to control it. But it would be a scare if we in the Netherlands only had to discuss it in English. The majority of Dutch students do not work abroad at all. Most will not work at multinationals, but just work at a municipality of Etten-Leur. And then they suddenly find out that you have to write letters in spic and span Dutch and that they have a language disadvantage. We have also had discussions with students about this in this Chamber. I think that is a point that we should pay attention to. I think it is a gain from the Minister's bill that she states, for example, that we also want to give Dutch from a certain level to young people in higher education, so that they can work at that level in the Netherlands. I really think that's a win-win for this law. Because it was very strange that we had arranged this for all types of education, but not yet for higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u85	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u86	Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that, as far as I am concerned and as far as the CDA is concerned, the starting point is multilingualism. Recently people have written a pamphlet or a thin book called Against English. They immediately had to deal with the pavlov reaction, as if they were against English. That wasn't exactly the point they made. The point that these people are making is that we are failing if we think that we should focus only on the Anglo-Saxon world and that we should only master English. Mr Wiersma has already said something about the control of German in secondary vocational education in the region. It is bizarre that we have thrown German out of the curriculum in favour of English. It is bizarre that in the press in the Netherlands there is endless attention to the daily rates of democratic primaries, while we are barely getting a page filled about what is happening in Germany, the country where we export all our goods to us. We think that is far too little. So with only that language comes a kind of can narrowing in. Of course, I am also talking to people in education about how we can deal with this. Administration students from the Campus Leiden don't go through questionnaires from home to home in certain neighbourhoods in The Hague because they don't know the Dutch language. I find it problematic that this kind of thing falls away. That is not a plea against English, but a plea for multilingualism. It is also a plea for a law that puts an end to the endlessly full English-languageization of education. That is exactly what we are advocating, and for that we see a very good step in the law: we are finally moving towards a law that limits it. We therefore believe that we should be consistent and very strict in the drafting of the law. We see very often that this kind of choice is motivated by the fact that I shall put it this way: it is not appropriate arguments. The CDA has had a discussion with the Minister about the choices that universities make, for example in psychology. It has been put forward many times here by other colleagues; I feel free to join. We have had the situation in Amsterdam, where they choose to offer psychology in English. Then a huge influx of students ambushed them, and they say 'you have to help me, Minister, to manage all this properly', while the key question is whether you are not making a certain choice of language too easily. If the debate is then held in Utrecht with the participation on whether it should be English speaking too, then it is said that we see it in the internal documents 'yes, but in Amsterdam they do it too' and 'if we do not; they do it there'. These are false arguments which the CDA hopes we can put an end to at least with this law. 'Cause you can't. The same applies to the idea that you need to bring in as many students as possible and that this is the key to this. That shouldn't be the key. Those are false arguments in making choices about language. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, education in the Netherlands has to be arranged primarily for the Dutch student. That Dutch student has also been helped to have international students running around. I'll just say that in one sentence. I think that is a good thing, too, but the key task we have with each other here in the Chamber is to ensure that our higher education, HBO and university, is set up to provide the best education that we can offer our Dutch taxpayers and in all cases the Dutch young people. This is the reason why the government has been instructed in the government agreement to strengthen the use of language in higher education. The CDA is very pleased that this minister is also working on this. This is not the only thing we have done on this point. We have already mentioned in the Van Rijn Chamber when it comes to funding and incentives, for example, about the CDHO, which is assessing labour market needs, saying that we are going to test whether English training for the labour market in the Netherlands is of added value. The first signals I get from this are that it has indeed become a bit more difficult to start an English-language education. We've already taken that step. At least that's a route the CDA is very satisfied with. In this way, we are putting in place the bill that the Minister currently has in front of the Chamber. For us, a number of tightenings are incredibly important. First of all, the test of foreign language. Secondly, the fact that in the law we still lay down that we can expect a final level of Dutch from higher education. I would like to return to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is very important. As Mr Futselaar of the SP said, we also had "need" in the previous law. That was fine, and people are demanding it back. Yeah, I do. I'll ask you some more questions. But the important thing now is that, even if it says "value added," we have put a whole procedure on it. You can't just do it anymore. You can no longer easily make a false argument out of it as: "they do it there too, so it should be possible for us too." I think that's the profit of the law as it is now. I would like to make a number of points in this contribution, which we, as CDA, hope will make the law even more consistent in this area. I have heard other colleagues ask interesting questions about this and make proposals for it. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the added value and the need. I said that the previous law said "need," but yet three quarters of the master's programmes in the Netherlands are now completely English speaking. Then you can write "emergency" down, but if you don't maintain it, you'll end up somewhere you don't want to sit. And yet the word "value added" has begun to lead its own life. Because with "value added" and "need" everyone feels that a sliding scale has been introduced that we should not sit on. By the way, we also have a little bit of a picture of this in the written contribution, because we should not now build in some sort of category that gives room to more of those false arguments, which we should not want to. I would ask the Minister to go to the Chamber on that point. How does it see this added value? Is that an extension to the law as we know it now? Or is this exactly a way to enforce more strictly? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. The 'added value' has yet to be worked out and presented to us. I would like to call on the Minister to make a strong effort when this point is being worked out. Can I give you an example that is also mentioned in the documents? In addition, there could be international research within the framework of training. But I would almost say that it fits everywhere. Mrs van den Hul has quite rightly said: in what field do you not deal with international investigations? As far as we are concerned, such a point is not an added value. I understand. But I don't understand if, in the end, the test on added value would give room for that. I would therefore like to have a further reflection from the Minister on this point. And I urge the Minister to complete this further development in an AMvB during this cabinet period so that we, as we are sitting here, can also be there when the proposal passes through the Chamber. So an AMvB with a front suspension procedure, as it is technically called, is good. As I said earlier in an interruption earlier today, the Minister may make his own list, but we still want to look over her shoulder in secret. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that language policy must be formulated in the case of a foreign language training. That's actually what we know now. Many institutions have failed to do this so far, but they will soon have to formulate a proper language policy. The idea of the law is that that's especially when you're working on another language. I would like, on behalf of the CDA, to take the view that, at the moment when the Minister asks for a final level of Dutch institutions, it is very strange that not every university and every college as part of institutional policy, of central policy, has a language policy. And not only for how they deal with, for example, other languages or programmes in a completely different language, but also for how they can better shape the English-language support on their way to an English-language master's programme. Or policies for how they work together in the institution to ensure a final level of Dutch. So we do not support the idea that not every institution should have language policy. We propose to the Minister whether it is not a sensible direction to have each institution write down language policy, also in view of the final level Dutch for Dutch students.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u87	A brief question, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u88	So Mr Van der Molen never takes it for granted to make an English language course. Let me just get a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u89	That's not right, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u90	... propose: the hotel school in Leeuwarden, Hotel Wyswert, the learning hotel of the Stenden University, of NHL Stenden. Need or added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u91	I think there is added value here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u92	I fully share that attitude with Mr Van der Molen. Do you therefore agree with me that we can see for a lot of institutions that this added value is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u93	Sure. That is why I tabled a proposal and an amendment with Mr Wiersma, precisely to enable the Minister to deal with this kind of situation which is obvious, and we in the Chamber are also looking over the shoulder. There are training courses where it is simply necessary. There's no discussion about that either. It's just in the twilight area underneath, where everyone crawls towards some kind of similarity, like: if they do it, so do we. I think the test fits very well. But I see your point. That is exactly why I tabled that proposal with the VVD. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the previous point. I would like to hear the Minister's response to my question as to whether not every institution should have a language policy, also in view of the final level of Dutch. We are going to develop that language level even further during this period. As far as the CDA is concerned, what I just said about the test of foreign language also applies in this area. This too must, as far as we are concerned, be completed. This too should go through the Chamber. It seems to us appropriate to have a debate in the Chamber on the following considerations. What level are we talking about? How compelling is that? Aren't we going too much about how? Shouldn't we be talking a lot more about the target? As far as I'm concerned, it's the latter. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has introduced into the law an exception that I do not immediately see the need for, just to stick to that point. The Minister may make exceptions to compliance with the Dutch final level in certain training courses or groups. For Dutch students, let me add. I thought, why would we do that? With which courses should there be an exception for Dutch students, so not international students, at the final level Dutch you can expect at a university or college? Maybe the minister has a list of training courses. Then I'll be recommended. As far as the CDA is concerned, it could be removed from the law, but I would like to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. The test of foreign language is valid indefinitely in the bill as it now stands. Once you've taken the test and had a grant, we'll never come back to it, just to put it in English. As a CDA in the context of the reaccreditation, we find this in itself separate. I hope the Minister will take that up, because situations can change. There can really be a logic to english, but there can also be a logic, for example with the aim of quality, to look at it differently. Then a reaccreditation is not a very crazy moment and not an extra burdensome moment for an educational institution to come back to, or for the NVAO to say: we will return to it in your place. I think this is the quality assurance we can expect in higher education. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA, together with Mr Wiersma of the VVD, I have tabled a number of amendments which are very much about sending foreign students in. A while ago, the minister was confronted with a very large influx at TU Delft, where they sat with their hands in their hair. In the end, the Minister allowed them to intervene there with some kind of numerus fixus, i.e. by regulating more strongly. We as CDA are not a party of the tolerated. We are also trying to be consistent in this. This law and this proposal give us the opportunity to introduce a proper regulation. If the Minister can accept it, she has in a sense agreed with it. Otherwise, you can't do that. So there's a proposal with the VVD that, if they're robbed again by 2,000 Chinese students enrolling and masse, institutions can just get permission to apply that kind of thing on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u94	I would suggest that you complete your speech first. Then I come to the final questions to Mr Van der Molen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u95	I have one more point, Mr President. The second amendment I tabled together with Mr Wiersma of the VVD is in the same vein, namely to be able to place a cap on non-EEA students. This is a wish that lives in educational institutions. I appreciate the Minister's making some kind of fixus possible on an English-language track. That's a really big step. I think this is already a good way to regulate inflow and guarantee quality. However, I propose, together with the VVD, to include in the law a possibility that can also be targeted towards non-EEA students, i.e. non-European students, and a maximum. Given all the cases where it has gone wrong in recent years, I think it is a justified request from the institutions to make more legally possible. I believe that these matters are always subject to the rule of consent for the Minister as laid down in the law. I understand that very well. But the CDA also believes that educational institutions should be able to steer the influx of international students. We will have to get a grip on this, because higher education, which is increasingly full of students, is burdening itself with an almost impossible and often at the expense of the staff to attract as many people as possible. Someone said to me the other day: there is a kind of intensive animal husbandry in education. It cracks and it squeaks. We're really gonna have to make choices about that. As far as the CDA is concerned, as part of it, there should be opportunities for institutions to steer international influx.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u96	I have a few questions on these last two points by Mr Van der Molen. How exactly does he see this selection? I hear him say: we have to have institutions selected in a targeted way. But what does targeted selection look like? Based on what and with what instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u97	When it comes to the emergency measure and we look at the design, you could send numbers in a short period of time. With the numerus fixus in itself, we accept that it is about hard numbers and that you can vary it with the groups you allow. If the influx of German students is so large that there is no capacity for Dutch students, such an arrangement can offer space to do something about it. A form can then be chosen, of which draw could be one. I can also imagine qualitative forms, but that is more real in large numbers. From the CDA I am not opposed to decentralised selection based on qualitative factors, but I see Dutch students as a side effect that certain groups will be systematically excluded. That is also the reason why, in an earlier debate, I indicated to the Minister that if that does not improve, at some point I will think again whether it should be changed. At the end of the day, access must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u98	I'm glad to hear that. I am pleased that Mr Van der Molen shares our concerns about this equality of opportunity, because we know that once you start selecting the quality of the job in a decentralised way, there is a risk of an increase in inequality of opportunity. We have seen this before and we have had several exchanges of views on this subject today. It's a good thing we're on the same page in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u99	Thank you. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u100	If I can still respond to that. I think Mr Paternotte said it very well in his first speech at the very beginning of this sitting. It is very often also about that student who goes to higher education for the first time and who does not have someone at home who can tell you how to have that conversation properly. And who, as Mr Futselaar would say, lives in a certain corner of the country. That's a situation I've been in myself. That goes for me, too. Mr Wiersma also said that. I see where that could go wrong. I'd like everyone to select on motivation, because you need motivation to successfully complete an education. If it is at the expense of this group, we must stop it very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u101	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. This means that I am now giving the floor to Mr De Graaf, who speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's right, I'm speaking on behalf of the PVV, the Party for Freedom. I can also speak today on behalf of my colleague Harm Bertema. On the day that word gets out, talking about internationalization, that "what does Wola mean?" The most wanted search term is on Google. Is that ensnaring or is that something else? But that aside. This legislative proposal aims to ensure access to higher education and to control the influx of international students. Instead of just the cheerful stories, which we know from the cabinet, that it produces EUR 1.5 billion per year for our treasury, the government eventually comes to the conclusion that internationalisation and englishing also have quite a few downsides. Access to higher education is deteriorating, as more and more students are coming. But quality is also on a slippery slope. Universities benefit from as many international students as possible, because that is a common earning model. As a result, Dutch will continue to marginalize. That's a vicious circle. These developments also mean that the average funding per student will decrease further, training will become more and more large-scale, the workload for scientific staff will increase and that for our students the children of Dutch taxpayers will become more and more difficult to access. In addition, student rooms are untraceable or simply priceless. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this. Universities and colleges of applied sciences have a primary duty to offer quality and accessible education to Dutch people. Of course, students need to master the English language. English is the standard language of science, but is also important in international business. Those last two cases, no one can deny. No one denies the importance of the English language in higher education. That doesn't have to mean that we will neglect Dutch and press further into the background. In addition, the fixation on English instead of Dutch ensures that all talents who come to study here leave the Netherlands soon after obtaining their master's degree. For example, 61% of foreign master students leave the Netherlands within six months of obtaining a diploma. At present, only a quarter of international students remain in the Netherlands after the study. So we train them in a large majority for overseas. We also wonder why bachelor's programmes cannot by definition be given in Dutch. Of course, some courses within a bachelor can be given in English if that bachelor has clear interfaces with them. Dutch should and should remain a leader, especially since learning Dutch at academic level is a primary social task of universities. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely in the context of diversity that it is important to retain Dutch as a language of science and therefore as a language of culture. This change of law is the moment when we can reverse the demise of Dutch. If we do not, our mother tongue will become a second-class language that will contribute in the greatest possible way to further segregation. That can be prevented today. Mr. Chairman. In our view, the current legislative proposal does not sufficiently protect and strengthen the position of Dutch in higher education. The explanation of the added value criterion is for us a glorified free letter for the englishing of almost all courses, because English is the language of international academic publications. This added value is therefore always found quickly. We are therefore convinced that this bill will not solve anything in its present form. Universities will continue to bring in as many foreign students as possible, with the result that Dutch will disappear even further into the background. The englishment cannot be seen in isolation from internationalisation. We have therefore tabled an amendment in which we say that bachelor students must master Dutch at the end of their education at a legally established academic level. I believe that the amendment was distributed half an hour ago. We also aim to teach all Bachelor's programmes in Dutch, with a maximum of 40% of the subjects in English. At the end of their bachelor's programme, foreign students should also master the Dutch language at academic level. Full English Bachelor's programmes will no longer be funded by the government. The necessity criterion should be maintained for the master phase. Master's programmes are in principle in Dutch, in accordance with the law, but they may also be offered bilingually or completely in another language. We also want institutions to actively and demonstrably support foreign students in learning our beautiful Dutch language. This way we ensure affinity with our country and increase the chance that international students will not leave the Netherlands immediately after completing their studies. So when it comes to necessity, we say no. I think I've made that clear enough about this law. Mr President, I will conclude. An additional adverse effect of internationalisation was recently revealed by Nieuwsuur: the infiltration of Chinese students for the military-industrial complex of the Chinese People's Army. The Minister seems to recognize the seriousness of the situation, because she is doing research in the meantime. My question to her is whether it is wise to have the screening of such international students from at-risk countries such as China and Iran throughout the week made it clear in the US, for example, that Saudi Arabia could also be included in the screening by the universities and colleges themselves, as they do not have the necessary capacity. We prefer it executed by the STUDY. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u103	Thank you very much. A question from Mrs Westerveld. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u104	I have a clarifying question. I am now reading the amendment. Do I understand correctly that the PVV proposes that all Bachelor's programmes should be offered to all students in Dutch, and that we therefore ask Dutch and international students to get their language level at B2 level? Is it true that this is not only a requirement for Dutch students, but also for other students coming here? Is that what it says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u105	Mrs. Van de Graaf. No, I mean Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u106	None of that matters. It's all gender-neutral and stuff these days. I feel like a man today, Mr. Chairman. I think that tomorrow, the rest of my life, and the time I'm allowed to be on this earth will be the same. Mrs Westerveld has read the explanatory statement carefully. At least if Mrs Westerveld feels like a woman today, like I feel like a man today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u107	Then I would like to ask a second question. I understand from Mr De Graaf's story that the PVV is very critical of internationalisation. But I would like to ask him: do you not exaggerate a little by wanting to reverse the language used for Bachelor's training, in this amendment? Isn't it a little exaggerated to say that we should do everything in Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u108	We have heard it from Mr Van der Molen, from international students who go through the doors with questionnaires for their research and so on. They can't ring a bell at a lot of doors, because they can't communicate. I have also mentioned this in a labour market debate: you notice it on a lot of terraces in the Netherlands; there is hardly any communication possible, if you are not a bit good in English yourself. Now I order my coffees on average from Mexicans, Russians, English, Lithuanians and so on. I try to learn them all a bit Dutch, but it would be nice if they could speak Dutch on that terrace, good Dutch. And you can expect something from students, if they have come to the Netherlands specially for the HBO or the wo and have chosen for our beautiful country. You can expect them to make a small effort anyway, a small one or a big one, because they are probably intelligent enough to just learn our language at the level indicated in the amendment. I don't think that's more than logical. This also shows that you really want to make a contribution to our country. That's beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u109	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. That means that we are also at the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about fifteen minutes to prepare for the questions asked. Many questions have been asked, so I would suggest that the sitting be suspended until 5 p.m. Then we'll start. That does mean, and I am going to prepare you for that, that the number of interruptions to the Minister will really be limited in the period. But we're about to make a deal about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u110	May I ask Members to revisit their seats in the Chamber? Before I give the floor to the Minister, the following. At the beginning of the suspension we discussed for a while that we are really stuck in a time frame. Normally, in a legislative debate, the number of interruptions is always free. But it's the one-after-last week before Christmas and if we walk very late tonight, we'll be in trouble next week anyway. I think you have indicated that you want to deal with this law at least this year. We have therefore agreed on a maximum of two interruptions in two. An interruption is a short and concise question, to which the Minister responds briefly. The Minister has indicated that she will reply in four blocks, three large blocks and one other block. At the end of a block there is a possibility for asking questions. No extensive introductions, introductions, etc. It pains me to keep you so short, but it's for charity. May I give the floor to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u111	Thank you, Mr President. For clarity, I'll tell you what the blocks are. The bill is called "language and accessibility," so I have a block of language and a block of accessibility. In addition, I have a block of talent strategy and a block of others. I think there's practically everything in these blocks. Besides, you can take anything else in the block. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we are having the debate on this bill today, even before Christmas, because that means that we can get to work quickly on some of the measures proposed here. Some of you, Mr Wiersma, Mrs van den Hul and Mr Paternotte, said that internationalisation in our higher education brings us much good, but that it is not an end in itself. The open and international nature of our higher education and research is one of the reasons why we are so leading internationally; it strengthens the quality of our education and research. Mr Paternotte mentioned this as the intrinsic reason for internationalisation, which ultimately strengthens our position as a knowledge society. Internationalisation also helps us to meet a number of challenges in our labour market. The latter is Mr Paternotte's more practical argument. Above all, internationalisation must have added value and a word that will be very common today for our students. It contributes to their personal formation, it broadens and deepens their qualifications. Mr Paternotte already explained that it is also in a long Dutch tradition of an open, international attitude: Spinoza, Hugo de Groot. With this bill, I want to preserve these valuable aspects of internationalisation, but with due regard for the quality and accessibility of our higher education and with regard to the importance of Dutch, for Dutch as a language of science and for the role of Dutch in our society. It has already been pointed out in the debate that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau recently pointed out in a report that it is our language that binds us, with each other and with society. Mr Bishop, but also Mr Van der Molen, pointed out this. I say it again: I am also here as Minister of Culture, and in that sense I cherish our language. The interdepartmental policy research internationalisation, the so-called ibo, showed that the influx of international students has positive effects on our labour market, on our economy and on our rich budget. But I also think that we should continue to look beyond economic values. We must also keep in mind the broad added value of an international orientation in our education, in our science and in our society, even though this added value cannot always be captured in hard figures. For example, education can be binding at a time when international contradictions seem to grow and we need international cooperation at a time when we have major international social issues to deal with. And so internationalisation offers our students a rich palette of perspectives, experiences and personal developments. In short, that ibo confirmed for me once again the importance of an open society. But it also confirmed that we must remain vigilant so that an international orientation continues to benefit the quality and accessibility of education. In this sense, we have tried to strike a good balance between these interests: quality and accessibility of higher education, the added value of internationalisation and the importance of our language. That was quite complex and it sometimes feels a bit like a balancing act. I hope that we have found and continue to find the right balance. In this context, Mr Wiersma asked me about a comment made by the Council of State on the relationship between funding, language policy and internationalisation. Mr Futselaar, Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Westerveld also referred to the relationship between internationalisation and financing. Of course there is, because we have all seen that the way in which we had shaped the funding, with enormous incentives for competition between institutions for the number of students, including internationalisation and englishment, has driven. That's why it's a good thing we both do. In any case, we are going to rethink the funding; we have now taken a step in this and I hope to be able to take further steps in that direction. But we are also going to ensure that we shape language policy in a good way. But less student-dependent funding is certainly going to help. You are right to point that out. Mr. Chairman. I come to the block of language policy. I would like to thank Mr Wiersma for his remarks at the beginning, which qualified language policy as sensible. It is not often that a minister hears directly from the Chamber that something is wise policy, so thank you for that qualification. Because language actually plays a leading role in the internationalisation debate. Concerns about the increase in English as a language of training in higher education increased. The concerns about the level of Dutch also increased, as did the accessibility for Dutch students. Mr Van der Molen also pointed to the need to preserve our language as a language of education and science. Those are all concerns I recognize. We must try to deal with these concerns by providing a framework for consideration. I thought Mr Futselaar characterized it very nicely. He said: we had an old law and it was strict, with the criterion "need," but in fact any exception was possible because it was not actually tested and enforced. Now we have a law based on added value, but we are going to test in advance and we are also going to enforce. In this sense, I also hope to respond to Mr Van der Molen's concerns. He said: that word "value added" has been added that it was aimed at more English. No, it really needs to get the support that we only use English if it has added value, including for the students. This added value must be clearly justified. With the combination of ex ante and adequate enforcement, I think we have a better set of rules than we had. In that sense, I liked Mr Futselaar's typification very much. He said: you can blindly stare at a strict criterion in the old law, but it is better to include a criterion that might fit a little more at this time, but where you do have a strict test at the front and will also maintain it. That brings me to one of Mr Van der Molen's amendments. Exactly how to design and test that criterion "value added" is recorded in an AMvB. You asked me to go to the wind, and since you would like to watch, you also asked me to put the AMvB in the Chamber. I'd like to do that. This way you can judge for yourself whether you think I'm getting the wind sharp enough. I can't sail for a second, so I'm gonna need your judgment on that, too. That amendment, I think, is the amendment to item No. 22, therefore, receives a positive opinion from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. With the measures proposed in this legislative proposal, we also ensure that institutions should encourage the expression skills in Dutch of all students, while further developing the standard of expression skills for Dutch students in an AMvB. For foreign students, this is an optional offer. I had the impression that Mrs Van den Hul had not fully understood the intention of the bill. For non-Dutch students, the norm is that institutions should have an offer for this, but we are not going to force any international student to learn Dutch. They should be given the opportunity, because that is what we find so valuable for the integration of students, already during their student days in the student community, but also to increase the stay rate, which many of you also consider important. In view of this, I would like to see the amendment on item No. 18 of Mr Bishop's recommendation, because he assumes a mandatory offer also for international students. Institutions in MBO and higher education must pursue mandatory language policies. It is actually designed in such a way that, once institutions have different language courses, they have to pursue language policies. Mr Van der Molen actually wants to go a step further, if I see it correctly. I have just forgotten the number of his amendment. He wants all institutions to have an integral language policy as part of the institution's policy. Mr Bishop has also tabled an amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u112	I just want to make sure we have the right number, because we're gonna write the judgments right away. Are we talking about the amendment to item No. 21, I ask Mr Van der Molen. No, that's about the generic exemption. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to accept this amendment. 23 or 24. He's checking. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u113	In any case, it is also an amendment by Mr Bishop, in respect of item No. 11 and my judgment on this is positive. For most institutions, of course, the legislative proposal as it was submitted already provided for them to have a language policy. We do not have so many institutions that do not have any other language courses at all, but it is of course never wrong to say that an institution should have a language policy anyway. All institutions have an obligation to promote the expression skills in the Dutch language of their students. Mrs Westerveld also had a question. An AMvB will be created for the obligation to promote expression skills. She asked me why I didn't pay for it. Why? Because this is in fact not a task increase, because that obligation already exists in the institutions on the basis of the current law. In that sense, therefore, it is more a derogation from the obligation in the current law. What is further regulated in this legislative proposal is that the choice of another language is made at the level of training and with the involvement of participation. That was also a question from a number of members: participation is also involved in the choice of the other language. Higher education institutions are also obliged to ask the NVAO for approval if they wish to provide training in another language. This is the case when two thirds of education is designed in another language. Why now the criterion of two-thirds? We have tried to set up the legislative proposal in such a way that it is feasible for the NVAO and that the administrative burden is somewhat reduced. This means that if you really have two thirds of your education in a different language, it is completely different. Then it is also enforceable for the NVAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u114	I was in Maastricht last Monday. There they really have a very rich offer for foreign students. Mr. Chairman. In the MBO too, I actually want to take another step towards internationalisation. That was also a question from Mr Wiersma. He was absolutely right when he said there's still a world to be won. One of the ways in which we do this is, for example, by shaping the reverse regulation and now creating a legal basis for it. This makes it easier for foreign students to obtain their MBO degree in the Netherlands. They still have to master Dutch at a minimum level, but there are wider possibilities for the other language. One of the interrupting debates showed that this offers great opportunities for border regions, because it would allow trade unions to be exchanged across the German border. That's what we want to do. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wiersma and Mr Van de Molen have tabled an amendment to exempt a number of training courses from the NVAO's obligation to consent. They say that you could do that if the added value of foreign language is obvious. I agree with them. It keeps it more workable and saves our workload and unnecessary bureaucracy. So that amendment in part No. 13, I'd like to give judgment Room. I understand that they also like to watch with me to determine which courses are involved. I think we can come up with a nice list together. I will also refer it to your Chamber. We can all imagine training where that is obvious, but there will always be a few points of discussion. GroenLinks and Mr Bruins had a question on Rule 1.3. The expressive skills that we require for Dutch students, we will work out in more detail in an AMvB. They're asking me if I'm willing to put that in front of the Chamber. I'm willing to do that. And I think Mrs Westerveld asked if you could do this without AMvB. Basically, you can. If your Chamber so wishes, you are free to amend on that point. We have chosen a different route, and if the question is whether I want to put that AMvB before the Chamber, I am happy to do so. Mr. Chairman. I have responded to Mr Van der Molen's and Mr Bishop's question to ask all the institutions to pursue an integral language policy. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Molen has an amendment to item No. 21 submitted for the deletion of the exception to point 1.3. There we had created an opportunity to exclude training from the obligation to promote the expression skills of Dutch students. I have no objection to this amendment. We had actually built this into the law as a kind of emergency brake in the sense of "it could occur that we find such training." We have said very carefully: we cannot find them at the moment, so we have no objection to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u115	The amendment in part No. 21: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u116	Yes, this amendment is judged Chamber. Mr Van der Molen also had a question about the approval of foreign language training courses for six years. He was wondering if you should do that; shouldn't you have to re-evaluate it every time you re-accredit him? The consent now, on the basis of the bill, is for an indefinite period. If the NVAO really questions the added value of reaccreditation, the NVAO itself can start the consent procedure on foreign language again. But that is not part of the process of reaccreditation. Because if there is any doubt about that, it is very difficult to call into question the entire accreditation. In fact, the NVAO has two procedures: accreditation and the consent procedure. The NVAO can say in the context of the reaccreditation in doubt about the added value of foreign language: yes, we take back on our own procedure consent to foreign language, and put it into effect ourselves. It's possible. But we also think that, if you put the question of foreign language into question every six years in accreditation, that would give us a lot of uncertainty. Because then an institution should almost always take it into account: oh, it may be that we have to switch to Dutch or bilingual again. That's kind of a pain in the ass. So we have said: no, in principle indefinitely, but the NVAO can start the procedure again in the event of reaccreditation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u117	The minister is still working on the block of language. So please interrupt at the end of the block, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u118	Mr Paternotte had another question about the optional provision of English language skills. Is there enough offer for that? Or should that be improved? We can see that there is already an incredible amount of offer. A lot of institutions have just set up whole language schools for that. But we will take stock of that existing offer. That is perhaps a good thing to do anyway, because one can then look at one another and see how one can organise that cleverly. And if necessary, I will also encourage institutions to expand that offer, if it is limited to them. Mr Wiersma had a question about the English language skills of teachers. He actually asked me, shouldn't you come up with a plan of action for that? That is what Mr Futselaar would have pointed out in his interruption that in our system of higher education there is a very strange duck in the bite. For unlike, for example, the foundational education and the MBO, higher education institutions themselves are responsible for ensuring the quality of their staff. We do not have a whole system of competences there, as in the fundamental education system. That's really different. It would be crazy to pick out one element and say that the Minister is going to make a plan of action. Then I could also do so in many other areas of their skills as a teacher. We see that the higher education institutions themselves have made the agreement that teachers must master English at a minimum level of C1 if they are to be able to teach English. This is set out in the internationalisation agenda of the Association of Colleges and the VSNU. We also see that they are taking that very quickly. The debate also raised the question of whether this would not only apply to permanent teachers. There are quite a few who are not on permanent duty. Of this, Mr Futselaar said in a clause that we should also do something about it. I agree with him. But we checked with the VSNU again. She really says to take the starting point that every teacher who teaches English must meet that C1 requirement. You can also imagine that a little more is being sent to teachers in permanent employment and that they are being paid a little more for that than people in temporary employment, but the starting point is that everyone who stands in front of the classroom and teaches in higher education has to control C1 levels. Otherwise, as a student, you'd be the victim of the fact that those teachers are not in permanent employment. Mr Wiersma also had a question in this context, which I think was mainly about international students who still have to come to the Netherlands. Can they not already be encouraged in preparation to acquire the Dutch language, for example by making moocs available? He asked if we could promote that. Institutions do offer moocs, but also have numerous additional courses, language courses and cultural courses and they also organise buddies. I will discuss with the VSNU and the Association of Colleges of Education how we for international students who want to come to the Netherlands and prepare ourselves for this, for example online a number of things that can be made available in a clear place. You mentioned a website for that yourself. We're gonna have to figure out what it takes. In any case, it may also be that the wide range of services available at many institutions is more widely shared. So that's what we'll talk about. Mr Wiersma also said that language policy should not discourage international students from coming to the Netherlands. I agree with him. That is why the bill also makes the choice to say that the offer for English-speaking students for learning Dutch is optional. That offer must be made, but we are not going to impose an obligation, because that could indeed set a threshold for international students, which we simply need here for many reasons. That could scare them off. Then there's the right of consent. Some of you, Mr Wiersma, but also Mr Futselaar and Mr Bruins, had questions about this. What about the right of assent to language policy in training? The inspection has investigated this. The discussions which the inspection has conducted with the institutions have shown that the internal dialogue is being conducted within the institutions and that participation is now being involved. That is a good development. It is very good that participation can talk about the language of the training, because it is of course very important for teachers, but so are students. With the legislative proposal, we want to ensure that the internal conversation is even better, that a conscious choice is made for a language and that the substantive grounds and procedures are laid down in the language policy that institutions should have. This legislative proposal therefore also includes the mandatory inclusion of language choice in the OER. The OER is really the place where a lot of these things come together. Mr Futselaar had another question for me. This legislative proposal also gives the training committee the right to vote on that part. He asked: are they sufficiently facilitated for that? The WHW has already established that the dean and the board of directors at universities are responsible for sufficient administrative, financial and legal support and training of the training committee. In the case of a new task, which is the case here, they should also facilitate the proper performance of this task. I expect them to do that. I will also explicitly call on them to do so. But the law is in such a way that the board of directors and deans are obliged to sufficiently facilitate the committees. If additional tasks are added, they should in that case also facilitate them. I see Mr Futselaar coming forward. I'm sure he expects me to keep my finger on the wrist. I certainly will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u119	We're at the end of the block. I'll take a look at the Minister's direction, because we're half an hour away now. Is there a lot of questions in this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u120	I've got a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u121	Okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u122	Mr Bishop had the question of whether the language obligation also applies to non-cost education. I can reassure him: this does not apply to non-costed training courses. Mrs Westerveld mentioned the possibility of reducing administrative burdens. We have, of course, also had the Advisory Board review regulatory pressure look at this. They indicate that the expected reduction in regulatory pressure due to the possibility to write out placement certificates numerus fixus... No, sorry. Some of the measures are developed in AMvBs. Only then will these AMvBs show whether there will be administrative burdens, because it will show how detailed it is being done. There, too, we will look very closely at the possibilities of quantifying this and ensuring that we keep it within our control as much as possible. That was my cube of language, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you. I saw Mr Van der Molen first. Then comes Mr Futselaar. A quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u124	The Minister responded to the amendment on the test of foreign language in relation to reaccreditation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u125	Would you mind mentioning the amendment number? Then it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u126	Well, I would have helped if there were a number on the paper I have here, but I don't have that number yet. The Minister referred to it, so I will continue to do so, otherwise things will go slightly wrong in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u127	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u128	An accreditation test has been issued with a different language, so permission has been given to offer training in another language. The Minister said: it is not part of the accreditation test, but it is for the NVAO or a moment to look at that test again. Aren't we going to get into a bit of a semantic discussion? It is not officially part of the accreditation, but you will have to look at that test at the same time, otherwise you will not be able to get it back. So here's what I'm wondering. The amendment says that this test will be valid until the next accreditation assessment takes place. Is that so contrary, just to look at the feasibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u129	Yeah, that's right. Now it's true that you get permission for foreign language for an indefinite period of time. That is a sort of "yes, unless the NVAO says in reaccreditation: we now have serious doubts about this." This is not part of the accreditation process, so accreditation cannot be denied on that basis. But the NVAO can say at that time: we are going to look again and we are going to go into the procedure again about consent for foreign language. It's a different process, a different procedure. We don't want to confuse those two. We also checked it out at the NVAO. It's gonna be really complicated if you weave those two together. So this is really the way we've arranged it now, and I'm holding on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u130	In conclusion, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u131	I will look at the text of the amendment with this explanation from the Minister. I also asked her a question about the NVAO's assessment. Shouldn't someone with knowledge of language be added to that? Maybe the Minister can say something about that. Because if you need to take that language policy and test properly, you need to be able to judge it with knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u132	I can imagine Mr Van der Molen's question, but I do think that the composition of panels is really something that should be left to the NVAO. It should not be the case that we are going to say here in the Chamber how these panels should be assembled. I think the NVAO man is enough to determine exactly what they're gonna look at, what they're gonna judge and how they're gonna establish their panel. I don't think we should be steering the composition of those panels from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u133	As regards support for training committees, the Minister says: there is a mandate to do so adequately. That is, of course, a vague concept. If you look into that world, you can see enormous differences in practice between universities and colleges and between courses, even within the same institution. But the tasks are basically the same, namely everything about the rules of education and examination. We see that this task has grown ever since the Administrative Act and since legislation like this. Is it not time to say that we need to focus more on this support, given the great tasks that lie ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u134	No. I think it was Mr Futselaar who asked in his contribution to the debate: should we not have some confidence in the institutions and in the internal debate there? We have generally stated that deans and the board of directors are obliged to facilitate the training committees sufficiently. I think that's an adequate obligation in the law. If that is not enough, the debate must be conducted internally. At the moment, I am not prepared to lay down any further obligations for this in the law or by law. It is, of course, also very complicated to draw the same line for all the institutions and training courses, because there is quite a difference between the task package and the scope of the various training committees. I therefore believe that at the moment we can be satisfied with how it is governed by the law. Am I saying that reality is already perfect? Certainly not, and we continue to follow that critically. It is also a good thing that you are sending out the message that you are following that critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u135	In conclusion, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u136	I also said in my speech, of course, that I do not trust all the institutions, and I certainly do so when it comes to dealing with their own participation. It is a little too easy to say that participation does not work very well and that should be discussed internally within the institution, i.e. through participation. Then you leave the solution to the problem with the organ that gets too little support. You'll never get out. So I'm considering a motion in this area, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u137	Thank you. I don't hear a question right away, so we're facing the possible motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u138	The Minister shook her head when I said that we are going to impose additional requirements on institutions when it comes to language, but then I look at the text in the explanatory memorandum, which states the following. "The new proposed paragraph of Article 1.3 sets out the issues to be covered, inter alia, by the rules. For example, a mandatory level of expression skills can be envisaged..." That's gonna go on in a little while. That's a tightening-up, isn't it? And these are, after all, additional requirements we impose on training when it comes to the level of language.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u139	It is actually more of a clarification of a duty that already exists. Look, also on the basis of the current law institutions have a maintenance obligation Dutch language towards students. What we are doing in this legislative proposal is to define it more precisely, in a sense of not being entirely satisfied with how we now see that legal duty being fulfilled. But the legal duty already exists, and defining how we see it, I do not see it as an additional legal task for which we need to finance extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u140	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u141	I'm having a bit of a problem with this explanation. We hear the Minister say that at the moment the legal task may not be properly fulfilled by institutions. This means that we are going to tighten up the requirements in the law now before us. I would then ask her to keep an eye on this and to see if institutions should do more. We must also take into account that, as I said, we see in the PISA report that the language skills of Dutch pupils are deteriorating. Is the Minister prepared to monitor closely in the coming years whether the burden of teachers on institutions is increasing when it comes to learning and keeping track of Dutch language skills for students? In this way we can also see in a number of years whether it is true that the load pressure has gone up and then adjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u142	I'm gonna repeat myself. There is now a maintenance obligation on the basis of the law. All we are doing now is saying that we are not going to fill it in at AMvB, because there are quite some doubts, for example whether the institutions are sufficiently complying with the maintenance obligation that is now in place. Then you cannot reason and say: that is an extra legal task, so you must finance it. No, it's a specification of an existing legal duty that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u143	Block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u144	Mr President, I come to accessibility. Or rather, how do we ensure access to higher education, for example by setting up an authorisation requirement for setting up a numerus fixus due to a lack of capacity? That is really the central point here. Mr Paternotte was right to point out that good progress has been made here in recent years. At the moment there are in Wed 55 numeri flexi and in Hbo 37. That does not need to be requested now. Mr Paternotte asked me how many are now being requested. But they are not now being applied for, they are being communicated and simply set up. Why have we put measures in the law on this point, as we have done? A numerus fixus always means a limitation of the student's accessibility and freedom of choice. And I attach great importance to the student's freedom of choice. Mrs van den Hul also rightly pointed out that a numerus fixus can also have negative consequences for equality of opportunity. In this context, the Van Meenen motion was tabled in an earlier debate in order to look very closely at the selection criteria we have. For there are best doubts about a scientific basis for the criteria currently being used and b the degree of self-selection to which they lead. You may also wonder if they select for what you want to select for. For example, do they lead to sufficient diversity in training courses, because we also want to have them? The development of this research will come in the autumn of next year. I think Mrs Van den Hul or Mrs Westerveld asked if we would look again at drawing lots. That's what we're gonna do at the time. Because that's really the time when we need to see what the best system of selection we have is. First, you always have to wonder if we need selection. As far as I'm concerned, that should be as little as possible. And when you do it, do it in the best way, the way that does most justice to equality of opportunity and also ensures that you select in a well-founded way for what you want to select for. For this reason, it was agreed in the government agreement that the Minister of OCW could block the decision of an institution of higher education to establish a numerus fixus. An authorisation requirement may require universities and colleges to exercise this option in a cautious manner. This is settled in this legislative proposal by checking in advance whether the introduction of a capacity fixus is sufficiently substantiated. Mr Futselaar has tabled an amendment. He says, "Can't you do that afterwards?" Why are you doing that in advance? We'll do that in advance. We've gone through it all over time. If you do it afterwards, the fixus goes in and so you have a year limit on equality of opportunity, accessibility and students' freedom of choice, without having been able to check in advance whether that fixus is applied for for a good reason. Why do I think it's important to do it like this? That is not because I believe that institutions are dealing with this very recklessly at the moment. But when, for example, there was a fixus on a training course where you should not want it because of the labour market shortages, I specifically asked: did you really do everything to prevent that fixus? Have you checked with the surrounding business if there is any lab space available in the short term? Is there any way to work together when it comes to students or to guide working groups? Have you looked together with fellow institutions to see what you can do about lack of capacity? For example, has a nearby HBO institution been used to see what can be done about the capacity shortage? I note that, in the current situation, this is sometimes somewhat limited. That's why I want to have the opportunity to check it out in advance. But the institution that underpins it, of course, gets its numerus fixus. We're not gonna do anything irresponsible. I am particularly concerned about whether we have worked optimally throughout the entire system of higher education in order to avoid a numerus fixus, because we want to keep it as limited as possible, as I can tell you all. I think that the power to refuse should be handled very prudently. The committee that has to test this will therefore have to deal with it very carefully. Mr. Chairman. There's, uh... I think there's... I don't know who it belongs to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u145	You were dealing with the amendment to item No. 12 and its judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u146	Yeah, about the ex-post permission for the capacity fixus. For well-thought-out reasons, we do it in advance, so that amendment is not recommended. There is also an amendment to put the layout of the test in front of the Chamber, by Mr Wiersma in respect of item No. 15. We set up the test by means of a ministerial arrangement. It is very unusual to set up ministerial arrangements. I would like to say that we are on a tight timetable. The reason why I wanted this bill to be dealt with so badly before Christmas is that the committee that will have to test the numerus fixus will have to start work on 1 May 2020, because the applications will have to be in on 1 June. Therefore, if we still have to go ahead with the ministerial arrangement, I say to Mr Wiersma, we run the risk that the whole scheme will start a year later. You may want to, but that may be the consequence of hanging out. I would, however, like to make a commitment to you, and I think that we can come together in such a way that I send the draft regulation to the Chamber. Well, you can find something about that. That is not a formal front, but then we can do it neatly with each other. I'll do that before I decide on the ministerial arrangement. Then we do not run the risk of delay and you have the opportunity to take a look. I note that the need to look at lower regulation in the context of this legislative proposal is very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u147	That means that you have the amendment to item No. 15. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u148	Sure, yeah. Mr. Chairman. This bill also provides for training to be able to issue more placement certificates than the number of places available. Some of you had questions about that. We now see that the number of entries is ultimately below the number of numerus fixus. That's because students sign up, then they don't get their VWO diploma and then they don't sign out. That leaves valuable places unoccupied. That's a shame. Therefore, more placement certificates may be issued. That is also the point we have dealt with in this legislative proposal. Mr Paternotte has tabled an amendment to item No. 19 to give deans instead of institutional boards the power to determine the selection criteria and the procedure. I would advise against this amendment. The institutional board now determines the selection criteria and the procedure for each training. So bespoke in an education can already be done. But the advantage now is that the institutional board has overview and direction. Central participation also has advisory powers on both the criteria and the competence and the training committee can also advise the institutional board. I think we've got the procedure right now. I think it is a good thing that the institutional board can also control the numerus fixus and the way in which it is set up. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Wiersma, together with Mr Van der Molen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u149	Excuse...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u150	That was the amendment in part No. 19 by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u151	That's not recommended. To Mr Paternotte I say: at the end of the block, as is the case with the others. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u152	Mr. Chairman. Mr Wiersma and Mr Van der Molen have tabled two amendments on what we call the caps on non-EEA students. The first is a cap as part of a numerus fixus and the second is a cap as an emergency brake in case of unexpectedly high inflow. I had already indicated in the legislative proposal that I also consider this emergency brake to be desirable. We have indeed had the situation in which I have actually tolerated it. Mr Van der Molen was right to point that out. In some cases I like it a little more than Mr Van der Molen, but here too I agree with him that it is a good thing to settle this. We ourselves were still trying to find out whether we have done this so carefully that it will stand up in European law and before a judge. Several of these schemes have been killed in Europe. I think we have found in the amendment a way that I think we can handle. This amendment will then be judged by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u153	Does the Minister have a number on that amendment? I don't think it's gotten through yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u154	This is the amendment to item No. 17 if I'm right about the emergency capacity fixus. That's gonna get judgment, Room. That's the amendment that first part No. 14 was, then 16 and then 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u155	That is Mr Wiersma's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mr. Chairman. Another amendment has been tabled by Mr Wiersma. Did you file that, or is it coming, because I can't find the number? I have a whole list in front of me here, but perhaps Mr Wiersma can give me a hand. It concerns the amendment on the cap on non-EEA students within the numerus fixus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u157	I don't think that's been filed yet. Yeah, he's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u158	That's coming up. I understand what Mr Wiersma and Mr Van der Molen mean. I think you'd like to file both. If you have a numerus fixus, can't you create a special compartment in that numerus fixus for the number of non-EEA students? This will ensure that accessibility for Dutch students and EEA students is ensured, especially in English-language studies with a capacity fixus. I have yet to see the amendment, so I am not going to make a final judgment on it, but I am sympathetic to it. I think it is quite exciting, because here too we have to see if it remains legal. We have to see what we can do here. Mr Paternotte asked me if I could ensure that DUO's communication is always bilingual, also in view of accessibility, so that foreign students can find their way there. DUO already does so as far as possible when providing relevant information on the website. In addition, DUO ensures that those schemes, which are mainly of interest to international students, are also available in English. If we get signals that DUO information would be poorly accessible to international students, I am always willing to use DUO to see if we can improve that. I don't have those specific signals right now. Mr Wiersma and Mrs Westerveld had a question about the following. For the sake of accessibility, in this bill we create the possibility of a numerus fixus on the English track, but not a numerus fixus on the Dutch track. You couldn't have done that before. You had to have a numerus fixus on the whole education. That's what we're worried about. It is asked whether the Dutch-language track will not be of lesser quality. I can take those concerns away. The quality within one training course is tested in the same way. The same requirements must be met. The same levels apply to the exam and the curriculum. So I don't think there's any need to worry about that. I know ISO, for example, was concerned about this. When I asked what they were based on, it was not so clear. It was more of a emotional matter. Mr Wiersma asked whether we should not allow the institutions to make additional demands on the Dutch track. We do not guarantee the quality of training with a kind of additional selection criterion at the front. The quality of the training is guaranteed within the accreditation process. It cannot be that different tracks within an education have very different quality levels. So I see no reason whatsoever to offer additional possibilities for selection at the front. I would even say that goes against the spirit of the bill. That's exactly what the separate track wants to increase accessibility. We're not going to put any extra restrictions on that. Mr Wiersma also asked about the suggestions in the ibo for selection to control influx. My goal with the bill is to ensure that internationalisation remains in balance. In my view, we have now found a package of measures that regulates this well. In this context, I find the suggestions made for further selection undesirable. Also, I didn't think it was necessary to set it now. With the current measures, we can come to a good balance. Then the term for the numerus fixus. A number of times it has been asked whether this is not all going to take a very long time. Also considering the registration procedure for students, you need to be clear on time whether there will be a fixus or not. Mr Wiersma and Mr Paternotte asked whether the two-year deadline for applying for authorisation for a numerus fixus was not unworkable. We can't make it any shorter, because you have to have clarity in time for students. Frankly, we are usually not very far from the projections we have of the number of students. That is often reasonably foreseeable. We also need time to do that test properly. By the way, there is no such difference between a pre-key and a possible test afterwards. I really can't make it any shorter. Mr Wiersma asked me if the capacity fixus committee is built in to give you as little as possible a numerus fixus for training in deficit sectors. Of course, this is partly the reason why we are going through this process: we believe that, in the case of training which is a major demand on the labour market, you should be as cautious as possible with a capacity fixus. We want that tested properly. Once again, I would like to see maximum consideration given to the possibility of avoiding a numerus fixus, possibly also in cooperation with other institutions and industry. We won't just give permission. But if there really is a real capacity problem, we will have to set that numerus fixus, no matter how unfortunate. You're gonna press that, of course. In principle, we grant permission for three years, but you instruct an institution to get started as soon as possible by taking measures to remove the fixus. That is, of course, the intention. It is not intended to rest on its laurels for three years, but you can imagine that, for example, if labs need to be built up, they need a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u159	This is the second block, the accessibility. Do you have a lot of questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u160	Yes. Mr Bishop had the question: do you think that this is a good administrative partnership, in order to turn the screws on the numerus fixus? It is not a question of administrative partnership; it is also just a minister who must occasionally exercise system responsibility and ensure that the results of the system as a whole are also what we consider necessary and that there is maximum cooperation in the system. Mr President, that was the block of accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u161	Thank you. Mr Wiersma was the first to be there; I have actually just returned it. Then Mr Paternotte comes, and then I come to Mr Futselaar. I hear from Mr Wiersma that I can first give the floor to the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u162	The Minister indicated why it was important for the institution to establish the selection criteria. The selection criteria for master's programmes are set much more decentrally. The effect of the amendment is that institutions still have the possibility to overrule criteria, if they wish. So my question is: do we not agree with the way in which we now formulate selection criteria for masters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u163	Mr President, would you mind if I returned to that in the second term? 'Cause I should really compare what's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u164	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u165	I felt that the Minister was very quick to step over a number of recommendations from the ibo, with selection as an opportunity to control the influx as well. You can have an allergy to selection, but it can also be a way, a handy instrument in the hands of institutions. There was a motion in the Chamber last week for a reason. This motion is not specifically about selection, but it says: we need to be able to control that influx, we need to look at what is needed in the Dutch labour market and we need to have the courage to provide guidance to institutions on it. That's not in the bill. We have tried to find each other in a few attempts with amendments. But that motion is very relevant; after this bill we can take it actively. The Minister did not say much about this, I understand that, because she also dissuaded it at the time, but it was adopted by the Chamber. So I wonder how the Minister intends to further implement that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u166	In the block of talent strategy and knowledge strategy, I will go into the implementation of that motion. Moreover, I said in my introduction: we must, even when finding the balance sheet in internationalisation, dare to look beyond the economic importance of the sector. There is more in the world than economic interest, and internationalisation is also more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u167	Thank you. Mr Wiersma, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u168	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I do not doubt that at all, but I must say that when it comes to diversity and all kinds of things, the Minister is prepared to steer everything up to gender diversity and toilets. That is fine, but at this point we also have something to determine with each other: what is needed for the Netherlands, what is it that makes us bigger, who do we need in the future? There's a war on talent; you can't look away. I'm glad the Minister's coming up with such a strategy and I'll encourage you to load some stuff in there. But the other side is also part of it: if that strategy works, and there are a lot of people coming here, then we must also be critical of who it is and, above all, look at our labour market. The Economic and Social Council says the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u169	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u170	So I'm gonna push back to that side. I don't have a question, but that's a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u171	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u172	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u173	Always end with a question, Mr. Chairman. Mine's about prior consent versus ex post approval. What the minister says is, two years in advance, you have to report it to us if you're expecting a capacity problem. My thesis is: if you really have an acute capacity problem, you don't see it coming two years in advance; then you're surprised by it. Then I understand very well that the Minister says 'we cannot organise this faster', but that is precisely the main reason for me to say: that is why you have to organise it afterwards. I also think this is because the Minister himself says: I want to use this means very reluctantly. Then there should not be much difference in practice either. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u174	I think there's just not that much difference in time between whether you do it afterwards or in advance. That doesn't really matter for the prophecy. Mr Wiersma has a really good point with his amendment on the emergency cap. Where do we unexpectedly see very large increases? Beyond the estimated increase, we see the unexpected, very large increase among non-EEA students. It's hard to predict sometimes. In our view, therefore, we find a good balance in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u175	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u176	I wonder. I would like to mention a second scenario. Imagine: tomorrow, a technical university says she's going to set up a numerus fixus on an ICT course. In this Chamber, people will then immediately start to rattle about it, you can say so. Oral questions, motions for resolutions: the Minister must use her power to counter this. How do we prevent prior approval from being politicised in this Chamber? That's something I don't think we'd want. You must be able to check whether something is satisfactory or not on the basis of objective criteria. Doesn't the Minister see that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u177	Yeah, and that's why we have a committee for that, which gets criteria in a ministerial arrangement. Yeah, this is gonna happen. But then the Minister must also have a straight back, I think, and that is what you should expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u178	As far as accessibility is concerned, I still have a question about the workload. We can see it's already very high. We see the declarations made this week from WoinAction. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she will also consider this high workload when assessing whether it is not time for such a numerus fixus. In other words, what is the need before the Minister takes on either additional funding or the establishment of such a numerus fixus?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u179	It's not like I'm going to set up a numerus fixus on my own. It is the institution that requires this, given the lack of physical capacity, lack of capacity in terms of teachers or excessive workload. Then we're gonna test that. There is a committee which weighs that up on the basis of a ministerial arrangement. Of course, irresponsible workload is one of the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u180	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u181	That workload is already very high, as we have seen this week. I believe that the numerator of the declarations at the inspection is already above 300. How does the Minister view this in relation to what we are talking about? Is this one of the harsh criteria that should be taken into account? Or is the situation already such that the Minister says that we are not really going to make it anymore? Should there indeed be talk of extra money, since the need is already so high that there are hundreds of declarations already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u182	I know where Mrs Van den Hul is going with this. But once again, it is the institutions that apply for a numerus fixus, considering whether they can guarantee the quality of education in the light of the notifications. Quality of education is always a combination of factors. We will lay down that weighting framework in a ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u183	Thank you. Then we go to block three, the talent strategy. Can the Minister focus on 6.30 p.m.? I'll keep an eye on the clock. Then it's all just gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mr President, I will try to do this very quickly. Talent strategy, as well as the offensive knowledge strategy requested by Mr Wiersma, is part of the strategic agenda. I say a few things about that. Mr Paternotte asked me about the partnerships with British universities. Yes, I say to him, the United Kingdom is a very important partner for us when it comes to cooperation in science, for example. For example, in Horizon Europe, we have incredibly many partnerships with the British. It would be nice if cooperation with British universities would take place more. It is also for this reason that in January I will be talking to British knowledge institutions and British colleagues in London about how we can ensure this cooperation in the future. This of course within the frameworks we agree on for Brexit. So yes, I see that importance and I'm busy working on it. Mr Wiersma had a question about the offensive knowledge strategy. In my answer, I also take the question of what we are doing to increase the stay rate. Both are important. I agree with everyone who says that the stay rate can still be improved, especially for European students, because for non-European students this rate is still around 40%. This improvement must also be part of the talent strategy. Early next year, so in Q1, I'd like to refer it to your Chamber. In the meantime, I am busy talking to the colleagues of EZK, BZ and BuHa-OS to see how we can work well together on this issue. To reassure Mrs Van den Hul: yes, we also work well with Minister Kaag to see if we are sending on the same things. This also plays a role in the entire discussion around the Neso offices. In the ibo it has been said that you should have a much more integrated knowledge strategy. You can see that in international knowledge missions, in the big missions that the Netherlands has, we simply miss opportunities, because knowledge is not well integrated in them. For example, we do have innovation attachés at the embassies, but we do not have knowledge attachés. I want what we all find so valuable from these Neso offices to be integrated into the Dutch missions, into our foreign policy and into that strategy. So we can see very well which countries we want to work with when it comes to knowledge, something Mr Wiersma is right to press. How do we work on reciprocity? How do we ensure that we focus on talent that really complements the Dutch knowledge policy? With you, I think it is very important that we operate smarter. I have a very strong feeling that we are leaving opportunities in there because of the way it is organized now. Hence my proposal. I very much regret that some people have given the impression that what we are doing with the Neso offices would be a cut-back. It is not that, I say very emphatically. Above all, we want to organise things differently and better. We will do that very carefully. We want to ensure that we preserve what is happening now, but that we better integrate it into our entire international knowledge policy. This is something that I think we should do much better anyway. Mr Wiersma has made a really good start on this. We need to think better about which countries we want to cooperate with in the fields of higher education and knowledge exchange, scientific cooperation. Yes, and preferably with reciprocity. That would be very good. Then it's really gonna be a collaboration. I really think we should hurry up on this. So at the beginning of next year, I will come up with that knowledge strategy, in which we will work out how to shape knowledge and talent missions in a good way, preferably on the basis of reciprocity. Mr De Graaf, as well as others, raised the question of how to safeguard safety. We all know the recent examples that show that you sometimes have to be careful with that reciprocity. We're going to do that through the broad knowledge regulation that's coming. It must ensure that we shape cooperation in such a way that we do not run unnecessary and undesirable risks, for example in the field of espionage and the leaking of knowledge. So you will have both next spring: an offensive knowledge strategy, integrated into our foreign policy, preferably based on reciprocity, I say to Mr Wiersma, together with a broad knowledge regime. In addition, some of you have rightly pointed out, in the context of talent strategy, the unbalanced brain circulation in Europe, as we call it. Countries like the Netherlands receive many European students, while other European countries really suffer from too many departing students. The ESC has also pointed this out. I am not going to say at the moment that you have to solve this with money, because countries that suffer from a brain drain will say that their economic damage is much greater than what the Netherlands pays for the training of those students, who also partly make a big contribution to the Dutch economy. With the incoming Croatian Presidency, they are on the other side of the spectrum, I have agreed that we are going to have a good discussion about this in Europe. They will set this up, and I will support them in it. It is also not a good thing for the Union as a whole that this is unbalanced. We also need to see how we can ensure that countries invest more in their knowledge building, in building their universities and in scientific quality. That is actually the innovation strategy that the Netherlands has around the MFF. So yes, we'll bet on that. Hopefully we will also be able to encourage the Commission to come forward with concrete proposals on this issue. I will report to you on this, as we report to the Chamber at every European Council on the agenda and the discussions that have taken place. Mr Bishop had a question about the status of referees. If a university is a referee, does that mean that it has to admit all non-EEA students? Does that even fit in with selective invitation? The principle of funded higher education is that it is accessible and that all students who meet the pre-training requirements or the further pre-training requirements that are required can be admitted to the training. Non-EEA students meeting those admission requirements should therefore be admitted. Whether you're a university referee or not, it doesn't matter at that point. We have arranged it in the WHW in such a way that education to non-EEA students in the Netherlands is part of the law. It's a public task. It wouldn't be my preference, but if you wanted to be able to distinguish between different nationalities and non-EEA students, you really should get it out of the public service. Then it becomes a commercial activity. Then we really need to organise higher education in the Netherlands quite differently. There were also questions about the institution tuition fees in terms of accessibility. In order to avoid a misunderstanding: there is now no maximum amount of institutional tuition fees. However, at the request of the Chamber, if I am correct, we said that a motion by Mr Van Meenen was intended to limit the amount of institutional tuition money for maintaining accessibility in the Netherlands. That must not exceed the real costs. In addition, I think that you should make sure for the non-EEA students that we do not... that it is not a burden for the other students. So we have said: you have to ask at least that, but there is no maximum. There isn't now. Moreover, we can see that different institutions are quite prudent in dealing with this. I tasted the suggestion in the discussion as if not setting a maximum is new, but it is not. In that context, Mr Wiersma asked whether there was room for customisation in the area of institutional tuition fees. I also tasted this question with Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Westerveld, for example in relation to students from developing countries or non-EEA students with a very tight scholarship. It is not possible to differentiate on the basis of nationality. That is discrimination, and we do not want it. Distinction can only be achieved if there is an objective and reasonable basis for justice. Of course, there are also grants for many groups of students to facilitate them to study in the Netherlands, but the institution tuition fee for non-EEA students is just one rate per programme. It can, of course, be differentiated by training. It's okay. Mr Wiersma asked whether what was happening there could be monitored. Yeah, we're running this into the annual monitor policies. Moreover, I expect the impact of this measure to be limited, because we already see institutions dealing with this very prudently. All rates are now in fact around the maximum, which is therefore the minimum for non-EEA students. In this context, Mr Paternotte asked to see whether these funds really benefit higher education and research. The institution tuition fees are public money and are part of the institution's lump sum. So we cannot see exactly what it is being spent on, but it must be spent in the public domain. That has been established, because this education is part of the public task. Mrs Van den Hul asked: what is the Minister doing to give students from low-wage countries the opportunity to study here? There are a number of scholarship programmes for this, such as the Holland Scolarship and the Sino-Dutch Scolarship. Last year, around 800 students from outside the EEA were given the opportunity to study in the Netherlands with the Holland Scolarship. In addition, Nuffic also manages a number of development cooperation programmes and grants for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as the Orange Knowledge Programme, the MENA Scolarship Programme and StuNed. I understand she wants more of those scholarships. Then there will have to be funding underneath, because within the current financial area, the maximum use is now being made of these grants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u185	Is this the end of the block already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u186	I still have a very small point in this block. It is not a small point, but it is a few questions about its own contribution. What we make possible is that institutions can charge about €100 to a student, indeed in order to prevent foreign students from registering with many institutions. Those institutions must all bear the cost of doing so, and in the end the student chooses one of those institutions. So we also do that to make it clear to that student that he has to make it clear which institution he chooses. We found €100 a reasonable amount for that. In addition, your own contribution can be requested for the language test. If your initial training does not show that you meet the language requirements, a language test can be requested. Why do we think it is reasonable to ask for a contribution to the costs here? That is also because it is very common internationally to do so. What we're gonna get is just test tourism. Then people come here free of charge to do their test to prove that they meet the language level and then study elsewhere. I thought this was reasonable in that sense, also because we are not doing anything here which is very unusual in other institutions in the neighbouring countries. I agree with you that institutions have the mandate to keep these costs as low as possible. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u187	Thank you. I shall look at Mr Paternotte first, because he was the first to answer his question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u188	I have a question for clarification. At some point, the minister talked about the institution tuition fees and said: it has to be in the lump sum. That's clear. Only this law allows tuition fees to arise for non-EEA students who will be much higher. That's not unthinkable. The point is that those non-EEA students in a formal sense also pay a fee for their studies and no tuition fees within the meaning of the law as we do for EEA students. The question to the Minister is whether the whole rate, even if it is €50,000, is subject to exactly the same conditions as the institution tuition fee, i.e. the lump sum. Is she also going to monitor the use of this money for the benefit of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u189	Yes, look, institutions have revenue, even when it comes to non-EEA students, which fall within their public remit. Then that money should remain in the public domain. In addition, many institutions have a private role, for example when it comes to contract education. They do private education. That is allowed to remain within that domain, but it should include a reasonable Chinese Wall. That is also the reason why you cannot very much select non-EEA students within the public domain in the sense of: that nationality is and is not. Then it must be in the private domain. Then you really have to change a lot in this system. But if a student pays tuition fees in the public domain, even if that is a high institutional tuition fee, then that money must remain in the public domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u190	Rounding up. Doubt. No? Then I would like to give Mrs Van den Hul the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u191	We're running off in this room. I would like to come back to the thresholds for students from low-income countries. The Minister says very easily: then Mrs Van den Hul must provide more money for more grants. But does she agree with us that the measures proposed in this law actually raise the threshold for students from low-income countries? After all, we are going to talk about a minimum institution tuition fee for students from non-EEA countries. How does that relate to that low threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u192	Mrs van den Hul cannot just say that, because that would mean that she can look into a glass ball and see how tuition fees are developing. What we see now is that they're all moving reasonably around that threshold. Why have we now made this distinction? Precisely because the wish of the Chamber was to ensure that the institution tuition fees for Dutch students do not constitute an unnecessary threshold. That is why we have said: at most only what it costs. We do not think it is justified to impose the same ceiling on non-EEA students. So that's the minimum. But neither you nor I can predict exactly what institutions are going to do there. Yeah, we'll monitor that. By the way, students with a narrow scholarship sometimes come on invitation. That's what special scholarships are for. Many universities also have special funds for this, which they say: we find it valuable to our community that we have these students, so we are meeting them there. But you can't differentiate between nationalities in institution tuition fees. If non-EEA students who have a very large scholarship are prepared to pay very high rates in the United States or the United Kingdom, I do not think it is justified that we should say in the Netherlands: we make it very cheap here. I think it is justified to say to those people: you pay your own costs and perhaps even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u193	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u194	That is precisely where we are concerned, namely that we are going to see an ivy League-setting of our Dutch institutions; I have just mentioned it as "Oxford aan de Maas" for a while. How does this relate to access for students from those low-income countries? I am still not reassured, and not at all when we hear that students are going to have to pay for those language tests and for that diploma evaluation. That sounds small, but that's already a big step for some students. I find it a little too easy for the Minister to say: there are scholarship programmes for that. Or: then they have to arrange alternative financing in a different way. I believe that these concerns are justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u195	Mrs van den Hul, that ceiling is not here now either. There is no reason to assume that institutions would now suddenly apply much higher rates than before, because we have set a certain ceiling for the Dutch students who are going to pay institutional tuition fees. But even now, in the current situation, institutions for non-EEA students can, if they like, ask for very high institutional tuition fees. But they do not, because I do trust our institutions to be prudent about this, because they look very closely at the diversity of their influx. With your comment on 'Oxford on the Meuse', you really make a caricature of the responsibility that institutions now take to deal with it prudently. If you compare the Dutch rates with those in other countries then you cannot really say that it is very expensive here. You could even say that a lot of these students are coming here, because we provide very good quality education at a very, very reasonable rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u196	I thought Mrs Westerveld was first. Then Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u197	In any case, my question concerns this point. The Minister talks about the responsibility of the institutions, but at the same time there will be a legal minimum. That's not consistent, is it? Why can't the Minister take that legal minimum out of this proposal, if we still rely on the responsibility of these institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u198	I also have a responsibility to the Dutch taxpayer. I think it is reasonable to ask non-EEA students to pay at least what it costs. I don't think that's such a crazy idea at all. Otherwise, we say to the Dutch taxpayer: you have to pay extra for a very wealthy and purchasing power Korean, Chinese or Indian student coming here to study. They receive very high quality education at a very reasonable rate. I therefore consider it very reasonable to set a minimum. I believe that, given my responsibility for the efficient use of public funds, this is a very reasonable consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u199	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u200	We also talked about what non-EEA students give us later. So I do not think that comparison is entirely correct, but that is not what my question is about. Our concern lies precisely in the fact that we, too, would like students from low-wage countries to come and study here. In my contribution, I mentioned as an example the students from Bangladesh, who might take Dutch knowledge with them. I would like to ask the Minister how her policy relates to the policies of her colleague, her own party, for development cooperation. It makes grants available, especially for students from other countries, in order to be able to come here, to gain knowledge that they can sometimes take with them to their own countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u201	That doesn't bite at all. In the international knowledge strategy, which I will send to you in the coming spring and for which I am working with Minister Kaag, we will also explain this further. Because yes, I think it is reasonable to ask this of non-EEA students, who can pay very well and who sometimes think Dutch tuition is a bit of a joke. At the same time, I agree with you that we should also be aware of the following. It is indeed of added value for the Netherlands when we have students in Wageningen from Bangladesh, for example, who take that knowledge to their country, which is very good for the export of our knowledge. But for both of us, we have eyes. For one thing, we have that tuition money and the other we regulate through scholarships. Sometimes universities have funds for that, too. In the international knowledge strategy, which I also agree with Mr Kaag, we have both eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u202	I hear the promise that this point will also be taken into account in this strategy. That sounds good to me. I have a question about the Neso offices. That was a point from among others the CDA, but also the PvdA asked for it. My question to the Minister is whether it is not wise to start with a proper evaluation. There's some unrest about it, including those offices. Let's do an evaluation before we make that final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u203	That decision has already been taken, also on the basis of ibo Internationalisation. We are now going to look very carefully at what valuable knowledge has been built up there, because I understand the desire to ensure that we retain that knowledge and take it into account in this integration into foreign policy. But the decision has already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u204	In conclusion, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u205	Okay, well, let me just say that I hear from the field that there are concerns about how that decision was made. As a Member of Parliament, I would have liked to see an evaluation of that. I do not rule out the fact that I would still like to see it. So I ask the Minister if there is room for evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u206	That actually happened in the ibo. That's one of the things the ibo did. I do not think it is appropriate now to say that we are going to stop all this again. Mr Wiersma asks me to come up with an offensive knowledge strategy as soon as possible. I'm working on that. That's what this part of is. It is one of two: we would then start to evaluate and delay it again, but my whole strategy is precisely to be able to pursue integrated policies here and to get a grip on them. I want to get a grip on where we're going to recruit and where we're going to work together on knowledge, higher education and scientific research. Again, it's not a cutback. We're just gonna use the same resources differently. I understand very well that the Nufic would have preferred to have seen that differently, and I would have liked that if I were that organisation, but I really think that we are making a move here in the smarter organisation of the knowledge strategy as part of Dutch foreign policy, because it has been lacking in recent times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u207	I would ask you to move on to the other block now and, if possible, to deal with it within five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u208	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll do my best. Mr Paternotte asked me if I see any opportunities for international students to participate in participation. I can assure you that this is happening on many points. So yes, that succeeds, and in that sense too, the offer that universities must have to have to give foreign students the opportunity to learn Dutch is very present. Mr Wiersma had asked how I deal with the adopted Tielen motion on one entry point for international students. Mrs Tielen really had a point that could improve the registration of international students and that there could be more clarity, for example in administrative procedures. DUO, Studielink and the institutions are currently exploring the possibilities to improve that process. One login point is already there. That's Studielink. In the spring we come back to the knowledge strategy. This must also be part of the knowledge strategy. It's actually the red carpet explaining for students you want. Mr Wiersma also asked: are we prepared to open up our system to foreign universities? Foreign universities can already operate in the Netherlands, but I am not going to open up the funded system. I do not think Mr Wiersma means that either. But they can of course be accredited here and offer an attractive offer. This can also help, for example, to promote cooperation with Dutch universities in the field of education and research. Mr. Chairman. A number of Members, including Mr Wiersma, but I also think Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Westerveld, said that internationalisation sometimes also affects borders because of housing in cities. You're absolutely right about that. The national action plan for student accommodation under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also really trying to improve this. That is not going to work overnight, because we all know how complicated this housing market is in the big cities. We also believe that institutions should cooperate better with municipalities. That happens well in a number of places, but it can really be improved. I also think that as an institution you have the responsibility of choosing internationalisation and English-language courses, which you know are going to attract international students, to talk to the municipality about how to house them. I know from my past as alderman at least that you actually had that kind of conversation and also got you to act on it. Here's real room for improvement, I say with you. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will also regularly report to you on this in the implementation of the Action Plan. Mr Paternotte asked what the future of Horizon 2020 was like. That one looks good. We have now also reached a partial agreement in the Council in which the Netherlands sees almost all its wishes realised. We considered it particularly important that excellence and open science are really the criteria. The Academy and NWO also play a role in the discussions we are having, for example, on the question of what are we doing in Europe when it comes to collecting European funds? We cannot say it enough: Horizon Europe is for the Netherlands really the programme where we are big, big net earner. So let us continue to focus on this within the European budget. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld had the question: what specific problems will this bill solve? I believe that I explained at the beginning that this is the balancing between maintaining the value of internationalisation and maintaining accessibility, equality of opportunity and quality of education. How does this law relate to the Compatibility Act? I understand that Mrs Westerveld is not entirely satisfied with the answer, but we gave that answer in the written preparation. Mr President, I think I have now had all the questions, but I have not yet responded to all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u209	That's right. We still have the amendments to the Nos. 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 open. As far as I am concerned, they may also be taken in the second term, unless you have them at hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u210	I've got them right here. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 23 I have had it in the debate. That was the amendment we were looking for. This was about anchoring Dutch language development in the accreditation framework. I have explained to Mr Van der Molen that I find that really problematic, so I would advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 24 by Mr Van der Molen, on the preliminary procedure for the language proficiency standard of Dutch students, is judged Chamber. The amendment in part No. 26 by Mrs Westerveld, I advise. This is about regulating the level of language control not in the AMvB, but in the law. I made another choice. That's what I stand for. I don't recommend it because I think it's really more careful through the AMvB. Finally, Mr President. I do not think Mr Paternotte was entirely satisfied with the fact that I betrayed his amendment. He asked: what is the difference with the selection in the master phase? In the master phase, institutions have much more freedoms to set admission requirements. Institutions will also have much more scope to impose capacity constraints as long as the selection criteria are clearly defined in the OER and at least two qualitative criteria are used. That is where I think it is indeed more decentralized, because there are more possibilities. But for the bachelor, I think it is really important that this can be managed at institutional level, so my opinion on your amendment is therefore important. Mr President, I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u211	I think we are still missing an appreciation of the amendments to the documents. 25 and 27, but I would ask you to take them with you in the second term. I see that Mr Van der Molen has another question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u212	We have just had a discussion on the amendment to item No. 28. This is indeed about accreditation and the test of foreign language. The amendment in part No. 23 has a different scope, namely that accreditation framework. So if the Minister can also take a specific look at this in the second term, we have treated all the amendments neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u213	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u214	Thank you very much. Then we came to the end of the first term on the part of the cabinet. We'll start with the second term. I would like to ask you if you would confine yourself to merely reading out the motions. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Paternotte. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u215	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your hard work this afternoon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Brexit leads to great uncertainty in higher education and science;]] [[Whereas close British-Dutch cooperation is of great value for the exchange of students and researchers and accelerates scientific development;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and actively promote partnerships between Dutch and British universities of applied sciences and universities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u216	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a shortage of talents in many fields of expertise from teachers to IT professionals in the coming years;]] [[Whereas universities, colleges, student organisations and municipalities until 2016 in the Make it in the Netherlands programme! working together to recruit and bind international talents;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an action plan to increase the stay rate of international students in the Netherlands after graduation, and to report on this to the Chamber for the second quarter of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u217	The final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that three quarters of the academic master's programmes are English speaking;]] [[calls on the Government to ask colleges and universities to develop optional activities for students who wish to improve their English language skills and to take stock of the existing offer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u218	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister, the President and all the support. I would just like to make two comments on the amendments. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 15 The Minister said that she does not want to do a comprehensive front, but would like to offer the Chamber the opportunity to provide input. If we can do that in speed and we can guarantee that the Chamber can really do that, and if the Chamber also has the opportunity to apply for a VSO, I'm fine with that. Then I am prepared to accept the amendment to item No. 15. If the Minister agrees to do so, she has actually already promised it. I am therefore prepared to do so. Thank you for the amendment on item No. 16 on the emergency measure. There will be another amendment on the cap on the number of non-EEA students. The Minister has already responded to that, but not yet here. This amendment follows and I would ask the Minister to reply in writing if necessary. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Economic and Social Council points to a possible disproportionate burden on the budget of our education system by EU students in training in the Netherlands with little added value for our economy, or coming from countries with a low stay rate;]] [[Considering that the Croatian Presidency, starting on 1 January 2020, wishes to pay particular attention to brain circulation;]] [[calls on the government to actively seek out like-minded countries, to explore opportunities in Europe to reach further agreements on student mobility, and to encourage the European Commission to come forward with proposals, and to provide a feedback to the House of Representatives in spring 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u219	I wonder who the students with a low economic value are that we have to ward off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u220	That part of the motion comes only from the analysis of the Economic and Social Council. They note, they see, that relatively many people come here to study, but they do not always see whether they meet a need in the labour market. The request of this motion is to take this into account in the debate in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u221	Thank you. You continue with the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u222	Yes, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many colleges in higher education institutions are now taught in English by teachers who do not have English as their mother tongue;]] [[Whereas both international and Dutch students in surveys indicate that they are not always satisfied with the English language skills of teachers;]] [[Whereas, in order to successfully transfer the teaching material to the student, the teacher must master English at a professional level;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the educational institutions, to draw up a plan of action to increase the English language skills of teachers and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u223	Dan, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands lacks a concrete talent strategy;]] [[noting that the Minister for Education, Culture and Science indicated in her strategic agenda that she wanted to work on this;]] [[calls on the Minister of Education, Culture and Science, together with the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, to develop both an offensive and competitive international talent strategy for Dutch higher education, which also addresses the improvement of procedures, the chance to stay, education and housing facilities as well as concrete economic perspectives, and to inform the Chamber in the spring of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that talent acquisition is not currently part of Dutch trade missions;]] [[noting that Dutch higher education institutions do not actively promote Dutch higher education abroad and therefore do not attract foreign talent;]] [[calls on the Government to include the talent component as a standard component in trade missions, where possible, to set up special talent missions on the basis of reciprocity agreements on exchange, business cooperation, diploma recognition, security assurance, and to inform the Chamber about this strategy and its development in the spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the internationalisation of the MBO still faces many challenges;]] [[noting that there are still many opportunities for internationalisation within the MBO;]] [[calls on the government to conduct a study on the added value of internationalisation at specific MBO institutions in border regions, specifically taking into account how we can encourage more German MBO students to study in the Netherlands and vice versa, and inform the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-35]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u224	Just two motions, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words about the amendment to item No. 12. I think that's fair. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in recent years the training committees have been considerably widened in their legal tasks following the Act strengthening administrative strength, quality agreements and now with the legislative proposal language and accessibility, and need to participate and participate in high-level discussions on education;]] [[Considering that facilitating, inter alia, hours' pay, training and support varies considerably from institution to institution and even per training;]] [[considers that all training committees in higher education should be able to carry out their legal tasks properly;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with student organisations, to lay down the legal framework for facilitating the training committees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that colleges and universities are increasingly recruiting international students;]] [[Whereas there is a link between the influx of international students and the current funding system of higher education;]] [[considers that, in the case of internationalisation, the capacity of Dutch higher education is finite;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the Association of Colleges and the VSNU in order to make arrangements to limit the active recruitment of international students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u225	Finally, Mr President, I come to the amendment to item No. 12. The Minister and I had a brief discussion on whether the prior notification of the numerus fixus would not occasionally lead to the politicisation of such subjects. The Minister said: yes, that will certainly happen, but then the Minister must keep his back straight. I would like to point out that we are not making legislation here based solely on the character of this minister. We are making legislation for the future. I'd like to pass that on to my colleagues. I realize how difficult this is, but we may also need to protect the institutions from the whims of this Parliament. I know that this is an unwelcome message for parliamentarians. But let us support that amendment to ensure that we do not try to exert too much wrong influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u226	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bruins. No, he's dropping his second term. Then I come to Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u227	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, thanks to its network of Holland Alumni and Netherlands Education Support Offices (Neso's), the Netherlands has an international key position in stimulating education worldwide and sharing knowledge;]] [[noting that the present plan is unclear as to how this key position is maintained;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain decision-making on the future of the Neso's until at least the evaluation of these Neso's has been completed, and to take its position into account in the forthcoming international knowledge strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u228	And my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that non-EEA students pay relatively high institutional tuition fees in favour of educational institutions;]] [[considers that these financial returns should never be an end in themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the field of education to ensure that, at the top of the cost, the added value of the institution's tuition fees is to the benefit of the spending categories which also apply to the study advance funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u229	Mr. Chairman. I had tabled another amendment on which I do not think I have heard the Minister's appreciation. It's about the conditions for financial support. I think they should be levelled. Whether you are a student from within or outside the EEA: the moment you are sick or in a management position, you should be eligible for the profiling fund. Perhaps the Minister will be able to answer that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u230	Yes, that is the amendment on item No. 25. I asked for a second reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u231	All right. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to set a new minimum rate for institution tuition fees for non-EEA students;]] [[Whereas this will increase the institutional tuition fees of non-EEA students across the board, thereby restricting the accessibility of students from low-income countries studying in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas education to students from low-income countries contributes effectively to the further spread of prosperity, well-being and well-being in countries where this is not self-evident;]] [[calls on the Government to waive a minimum rate so that educational institutions themselves can make exceptions to institutional tuition fees for students from low-income countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u232	And the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that numerous higher education courses use a numerus fixus based on extensive selection procedures;]] [[Whereas selection based on cognitive and non-cognitive skills stimulates inequality of opportunity and self-selection;]] [[considers that all young people should have equal opportunities, including international students, and that selection in education already takes place on the basis of diplomas obtained;]] [[calls on the Government to examine alternative instruments that do not stimulate inequality of opportunity, such as a draw, and to share the results of this investigation not only with the Chamber but also with institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u233	Mr. Chairman. When I look at the clock, I see that you have done an excellent job to keep this debate fairly tidy in time. My compliments on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u234	You too, and all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u235	I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in an AMvB the level of Dutch has yet to be established;]] [[Whereas the development of the level of Dutch is essential for the proper implementation of the law in practice, and it is therefore necessary that the AMvB may have been dealt with by both chambers before March 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber by 1 June 2020 at the latest the general measure of governance in which the level of Dutch is elaborated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u236	If Mr Wiersma is tapping his phone, he actually means that he supports the submission, I suppose. All right. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the legislative proposal language and accessibility the term "necessity" is replaced by the term "added value";]] [[Whereas this has caused many concerns, or does not mean that there will be more fully English-language training rather than stricter compliance with the law;]] [[Considering that the concept of added value still needs to be developed and that the development of the concept of added value is essential for the proper implementation of this law in practice and therefore it is necessary that the AMvB may have been dealt with by both Chambers before March 2021;]] [[Considering that this development should clarify how to combat engulation, at least in international research, because of the self-evident fact that research takes place in an international context, cannot provide sufficient support for the definition of added value;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the "added value" criterion in concrete terms, in support of its criticalness in order to prevent unnecessary engulation, and to send it to the Chamber by 1 June 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35282-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u237	The Minister has all the motions and has indicated that she can answer a single question and give an opinion on the motions tabled. If I've kept up, there's... I don't have the number right now. The Minister has the floor and I would ask you all to limit the number of questions. The Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u238	Mr. Chairman. It is 16 motions and a few more amendments which I will comment on. You can make promises until you weigh one on us. Motions from the spokesmen OCW come anyway, I always notice. I once sat on the working method committee myself who felt that the Minister should say 'dissuade, because unnecessary'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u239	A sensible appeal and a wise statement that you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u240	Sure. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u241	We're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u242	Mr. Chairman. Let's start with the motions. Mr Paternotte's motion on Dutch and British colleges and activities promoting cooperation is judged by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u243	The motion in part No. 29 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u244	Mr President, I am doing it very staccato, because you want to buy time. The motion in part No. 30, action plan stay rate, gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u245	The motion in part No. 30, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u246	The Paternotte motion in part No. 31 on the offer of English language skills for students who want to do an English-language master's degree, is judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u247	Motion in part No. 31, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u248	The motion in part No. 32 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van der Molen on the brain circulation in Europe is judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u249	Motion in part No. 32, Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u250	Mr President, now my leaves are sticking together. The motion in part No. 33 by Mr Wiersma on the plan of approach to English language skills for teachers, because I indicated to you that it would be really crazy to do this in higher education. It doesn't fit into the system we have there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u251	The Wiersma/Bruins motion in part No. 33 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u252	The Wiersma/Paternotte motion in part No. 34 on the talent strategy gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u253	Motion in part No. 34, Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u254	The Wiersma/Paternotte motion in part No. 35 on the talent missions as part of the trade missions is judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u255	Motion in part No. 35, Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u256	The motion in part No. 36 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van der Molen on research into internationalisation for MBO students in the border regions is judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u257	Motion in part No. 36, Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u258	Then the motion Futselaar in part No. 37 on the legal definition of the facilitation training committee. In view of the exchange of views in the debate, you will not be surprised if I betrayed them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u259	Motion in part No. 37. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u260	The motion in part No. 38 I advise, but in favour of the motion on the knowledge and talent strategy. Yes, I agree with you in part that we can question the recruitment of international students, but if it is part of a conscious knowledge strategy, I am not against it. It has to be more selective than not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u261	Motion in part No. 38, not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u262	The motion in part No. 39 I don't recommend. That is what we exchanged in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u263	Motion in part No. 39. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u264	The Van den Hul motion in part No. 40, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u265	Motion in part No. 40, dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u266	The motion in part No. 41 I advise against. This was also the subject of an exchange of views in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u267	Motion in part No. 41. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u268	The motion in part No. 42 I'm judging Chamber. I also said I'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u269	Motion in part No. 42, Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u270	Then the motion to part No. 43 and the motion in part No. Forty-four, both by Mr Van der Molen, who gives me time limits. It's good to stay behind my back, so I'm gonna give that judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u271	Motion in part No. 43, Judgement Room. Motion in part No. 44, Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u272	Mr. Chairman. In my view, I still have some amendments to give an opinion on. The Westerveld/Van den Hul amendment to item No. Twenty-five, I advise. The profiling fund is precisely intended to complement student funding. For EEA students, too, they can only rely on the fund on a conditional basis. According to the logic of the profiling fund, it is not logical to add this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u273	There's a question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u274	This bill is also intended as a kind of modernisation of the Higher Education Act. I have a very strong impression that has been forgotten to include this point. I find it very strange that, on the one hand, we encourage internationalisation and say that international students should be fully part of our colleges and universities, while, on the other hand, this is suddenly no longer true when they want to become active in a government or, for example, when they are ill. I would ask the Minister to look at this again and perhaps come back to it in writing. It is not such a crazy amendment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u275	I understand Mrs Westerveld's question. However, we should not use this bill as a vehicle for a whole discussion about the profiling fund and for what it is or is not called a profiling fund. So I'm gonna stay off my back. Perhaps we should have another discussion at another time about what the profiling fund is and is not intended for. Then there are a number of amendments to which I have not yet made the assessment clear. The amendment in part No. 23 by Mr Van der Molen, I advise. His amendment concerns the anchoring of Dutch expression skills in the accreditation framework. The NVAO now evaluates Dutch language skills in Dutch language studies by assessing the final works. In the case of a full English language course, the NVAO does not check this. The Dutch language skills are not part of the curriculum there and she cannot test this either. This amendment would mean that rules on the content of the curriculum would be introduced by law. That is a very fundamental and far-reaching step which I do not wish to take in this legislative proposal. Moreover, the amendment would require full English language training to incorporate Dutch into their curriculum, otherwise their accreditation would be rejected. That is where the system of this amendment leads. I think that is a very undesirable situation. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 24 on priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u276	You've already treated that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u277	That's gonna get judgment, Room. The amendment in part No. I've already assessed 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u278	Then there is the amendment to item No. Twenty-seven more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u279	The amendment in part No. I've already assessed 26. The amendment in part No. 27 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u280	The amendment in part No. 27 gets judgment room. I believe that this has given us an opinion on all the amendments that have been tabled so far. I hope this is the end of it. That would be so convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u281	I also have the amendment to item No. 28. That's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u282	Yeah, we already did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u283	That brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u284	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this legal process on the Language and Accessibility Act. I would like to thank the Minister and her support here and perhaps in another room for the input. I would once again like to thank the Members of Parliament for their very quick and constructive participation in the debate. I thank the people in the public gallery for their interest. The same applies to those who follow this debate in a different way. Thanks also, of course, to the listeners, because they have had to run a bit faster this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-11.u285	I'll take a look at my paperwork. Vote on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions will take place next Tuesday.
