ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on stint. I would like to welcome everyone, especially the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State. We shall begin the debate with the spokesperson of the PVV, Mr Van Aalst. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than a year after the terrible event in Oss, we have another debate about the stint. A debate on the Minister's incomplete information of the Chamber. That this is the case with such a painful subject, wrings. All these questions and all the appearances of a smokescreen are particularly painful for everyone who was involved in the accident. On April 25th this year, the PVV filed a motion not to allow the temporary admission framework for the stint to enter. This was because we didn't have an O.V.V. report yet and the DA still hadn't determined the cause of the accident. We therefore considered it particularly irresponsible to pursue the road as quickly as possible with so many questions. Unfortunately, the PVV got right last week, because the OVV was very hard on this course of events. Once again, too little attention has been paid to road safety. How far does this stand with a minister who puts road safety at the forefront of talk shows and who says he wants to achieve zero road deaths? Mr. Chairman. What a selective outrage here today! All those parties who give up on road safety as high as possible wanted to get the stint back on the road as soon as possible. They all voted against our motion to prevent that. What about road safety? When it comes down to it, all those parties collapse under the pressure of electric bike moms. It is not the only frustration of the PVV in this debate. How is it possible that important documents have been overlooked? We find this really hard to believe. The Minister stated quite clearly earlier that all the documents had been sent to the Chamber. That such an important document is lost in the multitude of documents: the PVV does not believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Van Aalst must not equate all the parties in this Chamber. I think there are a lot of parties who have said that the stint must be safe, and otherwise not. Does Mr Van Aalst share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes, but that only makes it wriggling. I now notice that the OVV is playing hard and hard on the new admission framework for which we are all responsible and for which all parties, with the exception of the PVV, have voted. While we have always said, even in our motion: do not do it! It does not do justice to road safety and does not do justice to the next of kin. Wait until the O.V.V. report gets here and wait for the DA to make a statement before you let the stint get back on the road. Mr. Chairman. It still stinks. 'Cause there's still pieces missing. According to the footnotes of the OVV-report on the timeline, we lack internal e-mail changes on why the RDW has not listened to the advice and yet the stint on the road has been admitted. The PVV wants the minister to play straight. No cover-up, no smokescreens, no cover-up. This subject is so loaded that even the appearance of opposition is already a gross disgrace. All those people who have been involved in this terrible accident don't deserve it. We just want to know what's going on. How is it that the standard for stint was changed, but that the stint was then not tested against the renewed requirements? That's the reverse world, isn't it? Who finally made the decision to simply steer the stint, despite the RDW's warnings? Why was innovation so much more important than road safety? They are questions that the Minister constantly does not answer. The PVV therefore gives her today the opportunity to open up business. Who allowed that stint on the road, despite the negative advice, and why? Mr. Chairman. Now our last question, which is completely separate from the wells-nothing game the Minister is playing with us. Why didn't the minister do the human thing and apologize to the next of kin? Why doesn't the government, who should have just pulled the stint off the road, make her excuses? The PVV therefore has only one thing to say: Minister, go deep into the dust for the misrepresentation your ministry has performed. Stop pointing to the manufacturer or to others, but take your own responsibility. Apologize, please apologize to the next of kin. Because that is the only way the Minister does justice to the next of kin and all those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u5	I was curious how the PVV looks at the role of the PVV itself and many other parties. In 2007, the segway was discussed in this Chamber. At that time, the PVV, in Mr Madlener's person, also said that new vehicles should be given every opportunity. He even supported a motion on the matter at that time. The result was that we created a category, the special moped, of which this is a result. How does the PVV view the functioning of the Chamber in this regard? It seems to have put innovation above safety in 2007, as we regret to note afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u6	We agreed unanimously once on this collectible law. That was a combination of a number of laws. We have found that this law was meant for the segway, but that, looking back, we should all, including the PVV, have looked more closely and more closely at it. I now blame the rest of us for having done so in the past period, for having found that we have not done so in a new admission framework, but that we have all agreed to it, except for the PVV. Again, the PVV warned you about this. In fact, we have tabled a motion on this, which, unfortunately, you have not supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. If one had paid more attention at the time, there should not have been a report. That's what the chairman of the Security Research Council said in an interview on the admission of stint. Those are harsh words. But in view of the mess of rules, the minimum requirements that have been stretched to the maximum, the negative opinions of RDW and SWOV and the warnings of officials who were ignored, they are justified words. Road safety was not a policy priority for a long time. That would probably have remained the case if on 20 September last year the terrible stint accident had not occurred. We will come to a separate discussion about the accident after the investigation has been completed. In the aftermath of the accident, it has become painfully clear that the leadership of the Ministry has been asleep. We can now say with certainty that the stint should never have fallen under the category of'special mopeds' and never would have been allowed to go on the road, but that the Ministry has made it possible to do so on its own. That's government failure at the top. Does the Minister recognise this and is she prepared to make a public apology for it? What amazes me even more is the way in which the Minister has tried to selectively inform the Chamber of the failure of her ministry. This is now the fifth debate we are holding on the stint. In all these debates, the Chamber asked for all the relevant information, information that we need to know how the situation surrounding the stint has developed. Several times, research by RTL News, for example, has led to information coming out and not this minister. Also the reason for today's debate is a WOB request, which finally gave the Chamber more information in order to make a clearer timeline on the admission of the stint. That timeline shows that, shortly after the stint has been approved, final requirements have been set, but no one has thought about rethinking the stint based on these requirements. You do not mention that crucial information in part in the answer to written questions and you do not mention it in an annex to an annex. No, that's information that reveals how the Ministry failed. That information is sent directly to the Chamber, which asks for all relevant information. In its report, the OVV also makes important recommendations for the future, such as making the advice of an expert organisation binding and setting out clear frameworks for future vehicles. I would like to talk to the Minister about that, but I do need a number of things to do that. One. Recognition of the failure of the government in this matter and apologies for that. In response to our parliamentary questions today, the Minister writes ten times in eleven pages that she has not been able to figure out how the designation for admission of the stint came about following the negative opinions of the RDW, SWOV and her own officials. Can she promise today that we will not be surprised again with new documents after this debate? Three. Answer to the question when the Minister knew that the stint had been allowed on the basis of incorrect information about the brake road, for example, and why she did not actively inform the Chamber. Four. That the recommendations of the Public Prosecutor are taken on board and how they are implemented. Finally, that this minister actively communicates to the Chamber if she has information that is important to us, even if it reveals the failure of her ministry. If the Minister gives a clear answer and takes responsibility in this debate, we can start talking about the future very quickly. But before she does, as far as we are concerned, there is no reason to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. This is a debate that everyone really would have wished it had never had to take place. Over a year ago, a stint in Oss got involved in a major accident. An accident that should never have happened. Earlier this month, the Security Research Council published its report on the accident. Yesterday, the Research Council gave a comprehensive explanation in the Chamber. The conclusions of the Research Council are harsh, they are clear and they are disenchanting. In short: the stint had never been allowed on the road. Anything that could've gone wrong with the assessment went wrong, too. In doing so, the Ministry turned the wrong buttons at decisive moments. A number of points from the report of the Security Research Council. "The decision to appoint a special moped was not taken by an independent inspection body, such as the RDW, but by the Ministry at official level." In addition, the authorisation procedure was deliberately set up very simply. The Research Council says: "At the request of the Ministry, the substantive requirements and their review by the RDW and SWOV were limited." Both investigations, of the RDW and SWOV, were negative, but they were not binding. The Research Council says: "Despite the negative opinions of the RDW and SWOV, the Minister has nevertheless designated the stint as a special moped and admitted to the public road." These negative opinions therefore played no more than a supporting role for the Ministry, or at least no decisive role. The stint had to and would go on the road. How that happened was of secondary importance, as long as it happened. The Ministry did not allow itself to be obstructed by review criteria. In fact, when the stint did not meet the test criteria, those criteria were adjusted very nicely. For example, the stint turned out to be too wide to fit into the category for special mopeds, because special mopeds should not be wider than 75 centimeters. The stint is one and a half times as wide, slightly wider than 1.10 meters. So the criterion was adapted accordingly. The maximum width was also 1.10 meters, so that the stint could fit in. Only the stint was slightly wider, so even that custom category didn't fit for the stint and so the category was completely deleted. And so a vehicle for the carriage of young children, which did not meet the original minimum requirements, was allowed on the basis of adapted, stripped-out requirements. If only the stint could get on the road. But that didn't make the stint any safer. A paper reality was created, with terrible consequences. Mr. Chairman. This should never have happened, and this should never happen again. I would like to know from the Minister whether she intends to return the advice of the RDW and SWOV when new authorisations are granted, to have all the tests carried out, even if it takes time and money, and to make those opinions binding. I have a motion in preparation for that. There can no longer be any steering influence of the Ministry. The criteria must no longer be manipulated, but they must be put back to the original values. Finally, I would like to know from the Minister how it could have happened that important documents were not shared with the Chamber. How is it possible that important documents were overlooked on such an important and sensitive dossier? Especially in view of the question of completeness and openness raised by many groups in the debate at the end of last year. I ask the Minister to remove all doubts and to make clear what lessons have been learned from this horrible tragedy. One final comment, Mr President. Mr Laçin and Mr Van Aalst also said this. There have been serious mistakes and an excuse from the Minister is more than appropriate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Wassenberg has already said it. In fact, we do not want to have this debate at all, because we do not want the accident to happen at all. But it does, with terrible consequences. That is why the Safety Research Council has done good and thorough research into the testing of stint and other special vehicles that have come on the road in recent years. If you look at what the Security Research Council has investigated and what it concludes in the end, you can see a reasonably deceptive picture. The Netherlands is known as a country where we always double check everything three times and where security always comes first. If not at the arrival of all kinds of new vehicles such as stint. Firstly, the investigation is carried out not by an independent party, but by the Ministry itself. Furthermore, the opinions of important advisory organisations on whether something is safe or not are non-binding. That's very serious. I think it would be good to look back at what happened in 2011, because that is what the Security Research Council is talking about. It seems that in politics, at the Ministry and also in the Chamber, it was above all to allow innovation. New vehicles? That's nice and let them get on the road. There has been no thorough investigation into road safety. There seems to be some kind of atmosphere of "let's just do this" instead of thinking about "road safety first." How can several spokesmen have already asked for these two important opinions from the RDW and SWOV on the stint in 2011 not to be taken over by the Ministry? What was the argument for rejecting two important negative opinions? Why did the Ministry choose to do that? Where's the piece that argues that? Why did the then Minister reject extensive SWOV investigation? Why have no additional road safety studies been carried out? Who set this up? And why didn't the stint ever re-evaluate after the mistakes in the concept requirements came to light? The Security Research Council rightly says that the Chamber also accepted an admission regime in 2011. But is it not the responsibility of the Minister of IenW to warn the Chamber even if the Chamber wants to warn new vehicles and inform them about the risks of road safety? How can civil servants be able to take decisions independently, without informing the minister at the time, on road safety and on the admission of stint? Where was the Minister's responsibility in this? Mr. Chairman. The Minister is now right to say that she will accept all the recommendations of the OVV. The key question here is whether road safety will forever go beyond innovation. Will the independent experts of the RDW and SWOV be given time and space at all times to carry out extensive research into the safety of new vehicles? So what's gonna happen to the new stint? Will the Minister also review other vehicles, such as electric baking bicycles and scooters, road safety tests or road safety tests at all? When will these new inspections be completed? For the Labour Party, it is really important that we put safety first. It has to be done thoroughly, the time has to be taken and the speed is not important in this respect. Is there enough time, money and manpower to allow this inspection to take place by the RDW? Or do we, like the CBR, get in trouble there too? How's that going? Finally, what role is the SZW inspection going to play in terms of enforcement on the basis of the European Machinery Directive? And can they maintain, given the huge questions that lie with that inspection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. The dramatic day of the stint accident, in which four children died, is now more than a year ago. We don't know the exact details yet. But we have got an ever clearer, and increasingly painful, picture of how the stint got on the road at the time. There went a lot, a lot, wrong. As far as I am concerned, that is what the debate is about today. Because from the OVV report you can only conclude one thing: the government has failed horribly. It has failed to ensure road safety, yet a primary task of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. It has failed by allowing a vehicle for ten small children to operate on an arrangement that was never intended for that purpose. There was no safety test on the specific transport of children, no test on the driver's driving ability. Indeed, at the time, the Chamber wanted a simple regulation for single-vehicle vehicles, and not a loophole in the law to allow a vehicle in which children would be transported. Earlier, the Minister said that the stint fell under the simple rule, because it had to be done. However, the OVV states that the stint could have simply fallen within the scope of much stricter European rules, but that this has never been weighed up by the Ministry. Is it true that the Ministry has proactively advised the producer to apply under the Special Mopeds Directive? And is it true that, precisely because nothing was laid down in that regulation on the number of passengers, the special mopeds scheme was chosen, because it might not have been approved under the European directives? Ignoring all the negative opinions of the RDW, SWOV and critical sounds within its own ministry, the stint has been approved. Is the control for the special moped extended with a new width to accommodate the stint in it? And is it true that, in retrospective terms, the stint has been covered by the European Machinery Directive since 2011? And if that is the case, that since 2011 the Machinery Directive was just applicable, doesn't that mean that there really should have been supervision of the apparatus, and that all modifications carried out by the manufacturer should have been monitored by the government? And why wasn't this reported? The stint has been tested for rules that were incorrect and already obsolete at that time. As a result, the stint had a significantly longer braking path. Why didn't the Minister proactively report this to the Chamber? And does the Minister really insist that it is a coincidence that the two reports in which this is written were not sent to the Chamber? Why is the harsh conclusion that the stint did not meet the requirements as early as 2011, sent to the producer and manufacturer of the stint, but not to the Chamber? Again, the government has failed. I want the Minister to fully acknowledge this in this debate today and to apologise for it. This minister has tried to tackle the acute problems surrounding the stint, but has remained away from the real recognition of the responsibility of her ministry for the mistakes. That stings. There's a lot to say about how to move forward now. I expect from the Minister a plan of action on how the recommendations of the OVV will be followed and what that means with regard to the current rules and regulations. But before we can move forward, the Minister really has to acknowledge that the government has been seriously failing, and apologize for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr Remco Dijkstra has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u16	I would also like to look back with Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks. Of course, it comes from something, this device. This is the result of a category that was created at the time. In 2007, also under the influence of the Chamber, the Minister expressed a positive attitude towards innovation and innovative developments, always underlining a "yes, if" approach. Then Mr Duyvendak, the spokesperson of GroenLinks at the time, says: my group is sympathetic to new vehicles; good regulation can take place in three months and road safety must of course be addressed when it comes to braking and lighting, but when the cabinet speaks of action and not too many rules, these things must be able to do so quickly. How does Mrs Kröger look back on this kind of lyrics?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr Dijkstra has done the same in previous debates. The Minister, too, has actually said a great deal about this issue. How can it be that in a professional context, in which you as a parent entrust your children to a daycare center, the counselor may not even have had a driving training for a vehicle intended to carry ten small children? He pretends that the whole issue we are discussing is related to the regulation on the segway that was agreed at that time. Yes, that legislation should have been stricter. Yeah, we should have ensured road safety in that. But I find it incomprehensible that Mr Dijkstra continues to say that the stint on the road was within an arrangement which was not intended to do so at all; that was not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u18	Finally, Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u19	Is it not fair to look back at the role the Chamber played at the time? It was a time when innovation was the key word and considered less important than safety. That's what Dijsselbloem said yesterday. We all thought it was important, but most of all there was innovation. In retrospect, we all note that mistakes have been made. But is it not fair to look at the role the Chamber played at the time? After all, she was the client of the minister to do so and also to carry it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u20	I really do not think it is possible to keep up with what Mr Dijkstra says, namely that with the regulations concerning the special mopeds and the segway, the House of Representatives gave the cabinet the mandate at that time that all kinds of vehicles, including a vehicle intended to transport ten small children, were also able to get their children on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u22	I would like to stress once again that these concerns were also in the Ministry. When that application came, there was the concern at the Ministry whether that arrangement was actually intended for that purpose and whether it was a good idea. That also played with SWOV and that also played with the RDW. All these objections and all those worries, these incredibly logical concerns, have all been dismissed. At the time, the stint under that arrangement was infused to be approved. The question is why the Minister does not want to indicate on what grounds this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u25	I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. Security is paramount to the VVD. After the stint in the Netherlands had driven on the road without any problems for quite a few years, everyone was shaken up by the terrible accident in Oss, in which four children were killed. I think we're still feeling that pain with each other. This debate is about the admission of the vehicle. Now let's look back. Let's learn some lessons. What lessons to draw, I ask the Minister. How do we look back on everyone's role and task here, i.e. those of the Ministry and of bodies such as the National Road Traffic Agency and the Foundation for Road Safety Research? And how does the Chamber look at its own functioning at the time of the admission and creation of this particular category of mopeds, the special moped? Were we gonna make it right or not? Mr. Chairman. It is sad to see that a dramatic accident was necessary to remind us of a process that was years ago that was not good in retrospect. The Security Research Council gives us clear leads, and its conclusions are not mild. I quote the main conclusion. "The national decision-making on light motorised vehicles does not take sufficient account of vehicle safety and the consequences of the authorisation for road safety. This applies both to the group of special mopeds, to which the stint belongs, which are authorised under the national procedure, and to electric bikes the motorized disabled vehicles, which may participate in traffic on the basis of an exemption without authorisation." Mr. Chairman. The Chamber itself is blamed for this. Many political parties wanted to see this kind of innovative electric vehicles more easily allowed on the public road. We were all there. The admission process was out of order with the knowledge of today. For example, the test of the braking track was debatable. The vehicle had to have a certain deceleration or stop within a certain time, and that is multi-interpretable. Also, after the first authorisation, there has been no view of changing versions of the vehicle. That was a choice of then, with the result that there could be great differences between the vehicle you tested in the admission and the usual evolution of the vehicle, which was never reviewed in the interim. The question is also whether the stint as passenger transport was actually suitable for placing in that category special mopeds, which was designed for the segway. Although it was understandable in the context from 2007 to 2012, where innovation was the main focus and the "yes, if" principle applied, we must regret this with the knowledge of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u27	I hear the VVD here admit that the use of stint as transport for ten small children should not have taken place under that special mopeds scheme. Now the OVV says very clearly: it simply fell within the scope of European regulation. Wouldn't he have been under the special moped directive? Surely he should have been covered by the European directive? That was just a mistake from the Ministry, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u28	That's been a choice. If you put him under European regulations, it would take a very long time, as the Minister indicated at the time. I've been reading that in that thick folder I've got there. And the wish of the Chamber was to get these kinds of innovative vehicles on the road as quickly as possible, because we all saw good in this and saw future in it. It was a sustainable way of transport, relatively safe, different, more modern and innovative. And that's what the Chamber wanted. To this end, the Chamber instructed the Minister at the time, and then it was chosen to create that special moped group, which eventually included the stint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u29	I am pleased that Mr Dijkstra is now highlighting that it has been an active choice, an active choice by the Ministry, to include the stint under that light regime. It could, therefore, have been covered by or perhaps should have been covered by the European strict directive. It's been an active choice. The Minister, excuse me, cannot refer Mr Dijkstra to the Chamber for that. He described that there was no enforcement and no supervision of all these adjustments, but precisely because the stint was covered by that national directive, the European Machinery Directive also applied, where supervision should have been regulated. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me that it is an omission from the Ministry that there has never been supervision under the Machinery Directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u30	I agree with you that there was no supervision of the vehicle after it had been approved in the category "special moped'. Yesterday you also spoke about the Machinery Directive with Mr Dijsselbloem of the OVV, but he does not say anything about road safety. I don't think that's enough. If you look at that category of "special moped," it was legal in the context of that time, but you can now find all kinds of content. So we have an opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u31	I have a very simple question to my colleague from the VVD: what does he think of the fact that the Minister informed the Chamber incompletely and incorrectly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u32	I'm not impressed by your assumption that wrong information would have been sent. I would like to draw attention to the technical information on the admission that was previously public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr Dijkstra now goes into the content of the documents, but I only ask him to do so in a different way, whether he agrees with his VVD Minister that she has informed the Chamber incorrectly and incompletely about these documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u34	The Minister must give her own answers to the questions you ask. I can't do that for her. I'm here to assess the contents of the documents. I see that the content is no different than we knew. We saw this on 21 December, one day after the accident. A lot of information about the brake road, for example, was sent to the Chamber. We have seen this in TNO's destructive findings, published on 13 December, and in response to additional written questions sent to the Chamber on 18 January 2019. Up to three times this information has been shared with the Chamber. That's enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr Dijkstra of the VVD continues to raise a smokescreen by aligning the category of "special moped" and its introduction with the admission of the stint. Those are two different moments, two different elements. The stint is the only vehicle of the seventeen covered by that category intended for multiple passenger transport. I am therefore pleased that after his interruptions Mr Dijkstra himself raises the question: should the stint fall into that category at all? I would ask Mr Dijkstra to answer the question he is asking himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think that was just my last sentence. At the time, we had the "yes, if" principle. Now you can ask yourself, should this have happened? With the knowledge of today, I say, no, we shouldn't have done that. We regret that. That device should not have gotten on the road for the transport of small children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u37	We'll soon agree on that. It remains striking that Mr Dijkstra continues to talk about the knowledge of that time. Also with the knowledge of that time we knew that ten children could be transported. That category was never meant for that. We have never had an active debate about this in the Chamber, but not about the category and its introduction. Mr Dijkstra nods; I welcome that. I think it's in line with what I'm saying. I want to ask a second question. It is about the controlling task of the Lower House towards the cabinet. Following the RIP, it was found that the Minister also admitted afterwards that the brake road calculation was incorrect. What I find strange is that the Minister does not actively communicate with the Chamber at the time she discovers it, but wait until we ask written questions. Question 7 is answered by a document in the Annex to the Annex. That annex is a crucial document for the timeline, but it does not send the Minister along. What does Mr Dijkstra think of that? Over and over again, in every debate, we have asked for all the relevant information, but the Minister chose not to share those two documents with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u38	On the first point, where I nodded: we also need to do our controlling work better, or we should have done it better. That's one of the things. In addition, I have given you three dates, 21 September, 13 December and 18 January, which share the essence of what you mean with the Chamber. That's enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u39	The essence is that it is quoted from a document, from two documents, in response to question 7 from the written questions, but that the Minister deliberately chooses not to send the document itself, which we have repeatedly asked for all relevant and all crucial information to the Chamber. Only a month ago, after RTL's WOB request, it ended up with us. Does Mr Dijkstra, with that fact, think that he can carry out his controlling task properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u40	The contents are the same. Conscious or not? I think the Minister said that this was not a deliberate omission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u41	I have a very simple question for Mr Dijkstra, a question which he can simply answer yes or no. It is also somewhat in line with what Mr Laçin asked. More than six months ago, Mr Dijkstra said: the stint must go back on the road; we just have to change that name, because it is an infected name. You mentioned Christopher as an example. Are you still behind those words back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u42	No, that name at the time was a joke in the direction of my colleague from the SGP. So you have to see it in that context. I'm gonna find out exactly what the joke was. My jokes aren't usually that good, and certainly not on this subject. I've always said the stint can only go back on the road when it's safe and otherwise it can't. So on the whole plea of daycare to make haste, to speed things up, my reaction is yes, sorry, safety first. That was my first sentence in my contribution here. It's still there, and I'm gonna keep it up. I am well aware that it is all a source of misery, also for daycare and for the transport of children, but that is the case. We should not bargain with what we are trying to do here with road safety. That's the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u43	That failed joke about that name I forgive Mr Dijkstra. But he said at that time that was mid-April, if I am right also really explicitly: by May 1st, that stint, or whatever you call it, should just get back on the road. But I understand now that Mr Dijkstra is now saying that he no longer supports it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u44	No, that wasn't expressed by the VVD. If you can find that anywhere, you'd better point that out. I never said that, certainly not. Of course we want the stint, if safe, back on the road, if possible; a stint 2.0 or whatever you call it. But if that is not possible, or if it is not safe, we have now set additional criteria, including in the context of the devastating TNO report, then it is not possible. If it doesn't work out, it won't. Then he won't get on the road. In the meantime, I've seen that the manufacturer offers the thing back to the DMV to test it, but there are still gaps in it. Guys, either safe or not. If it doesn't work, he just won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u45	It drives me crazy, the word 'road safety','safe and otherwise not'. This runs counter to the temporary admission framework that the VVD agreed to and which the OVV has now completely shattered in its report. The OVV says: again, you have not paid attention to road safety. Where does the VVD get the guts to put the word "traffic safe" in the mouth? You've agreed to it! Just admit that you shouldn't have done that, that it was just a piece of shredder should have done!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u46	Well, I think this is a little theatre-making. I don't understand the question. A temporary review framework is always available. The intention of a temporary review framework is that you make it final. What we should have done to each other as a room is this. We should have made this more final in 2007 and 2008 when we started drafting it for those vehicles. We didn't. We didn't do that until 2012. So it took us as a Chamber five years. That's not good. When it's final, you've got something you can force. But a temporary review framework, in anticipation, is not at all bad, provided it is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u47	Finally, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr Van Aalst, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u49	Oh! I saw him standing and I looked at you... Anyway, Mr. Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u50	I don't understand. I really do not understand what Mr Dijkstra is saying. The temporary review framework had to be steered through the Chamber as soon as possible, because that thing had to get back on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u51	Including your party, which was in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u53	I do not know what Mr Dijkstra has, but he is confusing a number of things. This Minister has come up with a temporary review framework to get that stint back on the road as soon as possible. You agreed to that. The PVV came with a motion and called on the Chamber: wait now for what the OVV says and what the D.A. says, and do justice to the next of kin. The VVD chose not to do so and agreed to that temporary review framework. Now you get a turn around the ears of the OVV and you say: yes, yes, road safety. Why don't you just admit you were wrong? Just admit that you were wrong and should have waited for the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u54	You could have waited for that, but what I notice is that the stint has still not been approved. So security comes first, with or without OVV report. We do now. That safety is still at the forefront. If that thing, that new stint "so much.0," isn't safe, it just won't come. Let them do their best. So if it doesn't work out, it'll end with that device, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u55	The OVV notes that the Machinery Directive has been in force since 2011, i.e. European legislation. This also means checking conformity. So if the producer makes a change, it should have been monitored. How does Mr Dijkstra view the fact that the government has been negligent in monitoring adjustments to the machinery directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u56	I think that the principle of conformity is a very good one, but it is not within the framework that we had with each other when it comes to the special moped. There you have seen that one such device has been approved, but that in the course of time, between 2011 and November, I believe, and now, for example, the engine has one and a half times more power and that there have been changes to the braking system which prevented that thing from stopping on its own. Well, that was never tested. Of course, that's stupid. There's gotta be another way. That should be better in the future. It can't be that you're putting something on the market, that might be good or not good, and then you're going to change all kinds of things, but we're not checking. That's not good. So this is also one of the recommendations of the OVV: now test everything you have allowed in the past on the basis of this category, but also look at the new vehicles, which are not yet included. So we have a lot of work to do there, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u57	Finally, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u58	Well, it's a little different. The OVV indicates that this Machinery Directive was in force all the time, in addition to the national framework under the Special Mopeds Directive. Precisely because it was a national framework, the European Machinery Directive also applied. And under the European Machinery Directive, there should have been monitoring of all the changes that Mr Dijkstra is now saying: that cannot be done, a one and a half times heavier engine and not a brake system. The government should have overseen that. Should have supervised that under the Machinery Directive. So apart from the fact that supervision was not regulated in the moped directive, the Machinery Directive applied and it is still a failure. There has been a failure in having supervision under the Machinery Directive. While it's just European regulation. Does Mr Dijkstra recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u59	We have chosen a national framework here because we did not want to wait for European regulation for this vehicle. It was a national framework to create a category of special mopeds. I don't think the Machinery Directive says anything about road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u61	Chairman! Mr President, I would like to correct this, because Mr Dijkstra was not at this session with the OVV yesterday. The OVV has outlined that a national directive was in force because that national provision on special mopeds also applied to the Machinery Directive. So the Machinery Directive was just for stint. This is precisely about the issue of conformity: if there are any vehicle modifications, it must be monitored. This is an additional failure of the Ministry. Does Mr Dijkstra recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u62	Then you have corrected this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u63	I looked back twice yesterday, just to make sense of it. And I don't think it says anything about road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you. You weren't finished? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u65	I've got a little bit left. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Minister accepts the recommendations of the OVV, that we do not ignore the comments and demands of the RDW and SWOV, after all, they have the expertise in the house and that politics realizes that traffic specialists have to do their job when it comes to safety assessments. That is not for us to decide. In my view, it is also clear that the temporary framework is necessary until we have legislation. However, I would like to clarify this to all those parties in order to anchor it permanently, including for new innovations that we may see and wish to see. Let us also revisit the already authorised, the new and the exempted vehicles to see what is possible there. What can the Minister say about that? On top of the technical requirements, let us also make demands on drivers and on the place on the road of the vehicle. I think that's pretty logical. Mr. Chairman. The VVD draws lessons from the choices made in the past. Now we must ensure that road safety in the Netherlands is better guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I now give the floor to Mr Schonis on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking again about the tragic accident with the stint, now more than a year ago. As in my maiden speech on this subject at the beginning of this year, I say it would have been worth a sweet thing if we hadn't had to talk about it today. But unfortunately... The evaluation of the Safety Research Council, the OVV, on the admission of stint is clear. The Ministry has been seriously flawed in both approval and supervision and enforcement. The OVV report clearly sets out the manner in which the inspection and authorisation of new special mopeds on the public road has taken place in recent years. There were few technical requirements and too little attention was paid to road safety. This limited the technical inspections carried out by the Office for Road Traffic, the RDW. Moreover, the frame of reference was exclusively the technique of the segway, a single two-wheeler that is in no way comparable to a stint. A more intensive research protocol of the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid, the SWOV, from 2011 to meet this was considered too time-consuming and expensive by the Ministry. In fact, the OVV concludes on page 58 of the report: "The Ministry instructed the RDW to keep the review framework as limited as possible." What is road safety worth to us if you read that? The Ministry simply allowed the new vehicles on the public road, even if a negative opinion had been issued by the RDW or SWOV. Recommendations were not or are not fully taken over by the Ministry in the authorisation decisions. Here is a very critical self-reflection by this minister. That means three things, as far as I am concerned. First of all, I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at the way she works. Why has no one in the organization at any time raised their finger and said: boy, this vehicle doesn't look like a segway at all and we need to shape that permission in a different way? This is all the more so because the RDW and SWOV had already raised that finger. This signal wasn't picked up by the Ministry, let alone the Chamber would have known. Secondly, I would simply like the Minister to fully accept the recommendations of the OVV. In the letter to the Chamber, the Minister is not entirely clear about this. First she writes, halfway through the letter, that she will take over the recommendations, but then she does not indicate on all points what she will do with them. At the end of the letter she writes: I take all the advice to heart. D66 wants to hear from this minister that she simply accepts the opinions and recommendations and completes the proposed improvements. Finally, the Minister must get to work. At the moment there are a lot of new types of vehicle on the road and that is becoming more and more. Think of speed pedals, electric scooters and so on. They can be ordered over the Internet. In the technical briefing yesterday, the OVV indicated that 20% of all road accidents involved a special moped. So that's one in five. The OVV concludes that the whole inspection system should be kept under critical review. The results should apply to both existing and new vehicles. When can we look forward to the results of this risk assessment? The number of road accidents shows that we cannot wait a moment. Mr President, I will conclude. As mentioned above, the OVV report contains three clear recommendations. Minister, take these recommendations and get to work to at least minimise the chance of a repeat of an accident like last year's in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. I now give the floor to Mrs De Pater-Postma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. You're having a hard time, and you're having easy debates. I find this a difficult debate because of the great loss that is behind this debate and everyone here feels. Many important questions have already been asked by those who stood before it, for example how the stint inspection has been carried out in the Ministry or why the opinions of the RDW and SWOV have been ignored. Why was one category chosen and not the other? And what about the machinery directive? But also: why were two pieces missing? That information should have been here sooner. How come that didn't happen? The CDA also wants an answer to this. I have a number of other points that I would also like to make. Most of an iceberg is usually underwater. What this report seems to say is that the stint is the tip of the iceberg. The figures do not lie: more than 140 out of 678 road deaths in the Netherlands in 2018 were killed as a user of a light motorized vehicle. That's over 20% of the number of road deaths. The CDA believes that road safety must be at one level. With this report we can conclude that the safety requirements we impose on these vehicles are insufficient. There is no system in it, which makes it seem to be arbitrary how vehicles are inspected. It is necessary to build a structure. It is necessary that the main objective of building the road safety structure is not innovation and not sustainability. The OVV makes good proposals on how to build this structure. The CDA therefore wants the Minister to take on board all the recommendations and proposals of the OVV report. I would like to highlight one of these proposals. The OVV advises to have the inspection carried out independently by the RDW for the technical requirements and by SWOV for road safety. That sounds like excellent advice. However, the report also shows that SWOV could only do a quickscan earlier because there was no other money. Now SWOV receives even 15% less subsidy per year. The CDA expects a large number of vehicles to be tested in the future. That must be done in a secure manner, because road safety must be on one side. This means extensive research by SWOV instead of quickscans. This should not be at the expense of the other projects already undertaken by SWOV. The CDA would like to hear from the Minister how she intends to structure this. Does SWOV, for example, receive additional structural subsidies or how does it intend to do this? Mr. Chairman. According to the CDA, special attention should be paid to vehicles in which children can also be transported. Until this new structure is in place, the CDA wants to focus once again on the group of electric bikes, which has little safety requirements. Through a CDA/VVD motion of April this year, the Court ruled that additional security measures should be taken if research shows that it is not enough now. The OVV is clear that there are security problems here. Before 1 October, the Minister would present possible safety requirements and a proposal on how to map the monitoring. What additional usage requirements is the Minister going to propose for the very short term and when are they going to apply? Is the Minister prepared to pay particular attention in the new structure to all means of transport in which children are transported? Mr President, my final point. We see electric steps, electric skateboards, hoverboards and monowheels in the Netherlands on the road. That is strange, because these new means of transport are not allowed in the Netherlands on the road or on the sidewalk. The CDA has two questions about this. The OVV recommends combating illegal use. This does not seem to be a priority at all. The first question is: does the cabinet intend to maintain much more and to provide more information on these illegal vehicles? The second question: the AD recently said that the Minister wants to work on legalising the e-step. How exactly are we supposed to interpret this? Is the Minister going to work in the current inadequate framework or will she not work until we have new frameworks? My second and final question is this: can the Minister promise that the comprehensive risk assessment will not focus in any way on the security aspect? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr Laçin for his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u71	I want to ask the CDA the same question as I asked the VVD. As a chamber, we have a controlling task. For this, the information we receive from the cabinet is crucial. I hear Mrs De Pater asking a question about those two missing documents, but I would also very much like to know how she assesses them. In December 2018 it was concluded that the braking test was incorrect. We were not actively informed about this. Only in response to written questions in January did we receive a quote from the concept requirements, but the concept requirements were not sent along. We had to wait eight months, until a WOB request from RTL in September 2019, before we got those demands. How does the CDA judge this fact, with the controlling task of the Lower House in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u72	As I said at the beginning of my speech, I would also very much like to know why these documents have not been sent, because precisely this dossier deserves all the care it needs. So I am also very curious to see what the answers to that are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u73	One last question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u74	Very briefly. I understand the question, but I am asking about Mrs De Pater's assessment as a Member of Parliament. How does she, as a Member of Parliament, assess that the cabinet has not received crucial information for almost a year? I'd like an assessment and not a referral to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u75	It's important that you get all the information you need for this. Hence my question: why were these documents not sent to us? But I'd like to know the answer to that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mrs De Pater-Postma rightly points to the point that the OVV also makes, namely that there are all kinds of vehicles, such as skateboard and steps, that you can just buy anywhere but should not actually use. Only in the living room is an electric skateboard not so nice; you want to go outside with that. Yesterday, the chairman of the OVV said: perhaps you should also ban sales in the Netherlands. Because my son can buy the most beautiful vehicles on all kinds of websites, which should not be used at all. What does Mrs De Pater-Postma think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u77	You see a number of things in this file. The crazy thing we were talking about yesterday is that these vehicles are not allowed in the Netherlands on the sidewalk or on the road, but they are allowed on the road in Belgium, or not on the road but on the sidewalk. So people get a whole mix of images. It's very difficult to know what is and isn't allowed. It would be good if those vehicles did not drive on our road or pavement, but I am very real. Banning Internet sales or whatever is not that easy. We do not have all the internet shops under our care, because very often they come from abroad. They are also bought on holiday in France and taken in the trunk. So it seems like a good solution and I would like nothing more than clarity, but it must be the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you, Mrs De Pater-Postma. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you, Madam President. The Oss accident in which the stint was involved is the intensely sad occasion for the investigation carried out by the Safety Research Council and which we are talking about today. The report of the Research Council shows that lessons have to be learned from the past, because much has gone wrong in allowing the stint. The requirements for authorisation did not take sufficient account of the safety of the vehicles themselves and the effects on road safety. It is therefore also a good thing that the Minister is going to take on board the recommendations contained in the report and want to work with them vigorously. But in order to learn well from the past, there must be room for reflection. We must look back critically, including the role of the Chamber. The OVV was keen on that. Innovation was above security and parliament was a driving force. The Chamber must also improve the safety of this type of vehicle. At the same time, the Chamber could not foresee that under the authorisation framework designed for the segway a vehicle would be allowed to carry ten children. I also ask the Minister to take a critical look back at the ministry's actions. According to the requirements at the time, the stint should have been notified under the European admission framework, but that has not happened. The opinions of the RDW and SWOV were negative. However, the letter of admission to the manufacturer stated that the Ministry did not want to make the stint too broad, that the advice of the RDW was positive and that the stint met the requirements of road safety. At the request of the Ministry, the substantive requirements and their review by the RDW and SWOV were limited. When assessing the brake path of the stint, the standard of the segway was used. And it was decided at a low level in the official organization that the vehicles should be designated. Mistakes have been made. The government has not sufficiently guaranteed safety. I ask the Minister to reflect on the role played by her ministry. Then I'll come to the information service at the Chamber. The annexes containing draft requirements and final requirements have not directly reached the Chamber. While the suspension decision was sent to the Chamber in October, the revocation decision was not sent to the Chamber in February. During the first debate we had in the Chamber, the Minister could not answer all the questions. A lot of things had to be looked up and sorted out. The Minister indicated that as soon as she had the information, she would share it directly with the Chamber. What choices did the Minister make after this debate? And how does she look at that now? Is all the information shared with the Chamber as soon as it was available? How is it that the OVV had more documents at its disposal than the Chamber? The OVV has made important recommendations. A level of safety should be established. How many risks do we consider acceptable? There needs to be a new assessment framework. Not only new vehicles need to be re-assessed, but also vehicles already authorised. How will the Minister implement the OVV's recommendations in concrete terms? What timetable does she envisage? I am also asking for this in view of the electric baking bike with which children are transported in a similar way to the stint. It has never been judged for safe participation in traffic. This test is also lacking for a number of disabled vehicles. We think it is important that we get clear, clear and clear. Mr. Chairman. Let me conclude by saying that there has been an increase in the number of road accidents. We're worried about that. According to the OVV, 20% of these victims are related to the category of light motor vehicles we are talking about today and there is no monitoring. My question here is this: do we have sufficient picture of the number of vehicles and the number of victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Chairman. As several colleagues have pointed out, this debate is marked by the terrible events of last September in Oss. I would like to look back briefly and briefly. When I look back, I'll start the analysis of the Research Council. It's very clear, clip-and-ready. I summarize it in my words. The government has taken a step forward with the admission policy of, in particular, the stint. In particular, the Chamber must look at itself. How is it possible that they didn't even look under the hood of the stint, figuratively and literally? I think it is very good that the Minister acknowledges this and states that she wants to take steps. The Research Council states that the Ministry already knew in September 2011 that the stint did not meet the size requirements before the RDW verification of stint. My question is: was the Ministry already aware that the stint did not meet the length requirement? The Minister informed the Chamber in January 2019 that the stint did not meet the brake deceleration requirement if it was assessed on its own. The problem lies in the mode of assessment. The Research Council states that the Ministry already recognised in May 2011 that the draft requirement for checking the brake deceleration requirement was not correct and that this had to be adapted. I have two questions about that. First thing. How is it possible that in September 2011 the RDW started working on the already misidentified inspection requirement? Two. Why was the stint not properly inspected after publication of the final requirements? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to take a brief look at the situation, because there is work to be done. The Research Council writes that 20% of road deaths are occupants or drivers of mopeds, scooters and other lightly motorised vehicles. This includes the special mopeds. The Minister states that she wants to work towards an independent inspection body. I have some hesitation in that regard. It is right and true that the RDW has dropped, but why not opt for a reinforcement of the RDW? If necessary, the RDW could also fly into TNO's expertise? I also have doubts about a registration requirement, as it is called. Registration takes time and money on both sides. What is the serious added value of such a registration requirement? The Minister wants the opinions of authorities, RDW, SWOV and possibly the separate successor that will be subject to inspections to become binding on the decision-making process. I would like to make a further comment on that. For the technical requirements, I agree. All clear. However, I believe that clear criteria are much more difficult and subjective for integration into traffic. Isn't it more real to leave that final weighing with the Ministry? In this case, I don't think you should put all your responsibilities in other places. Finally, Mr President. Vehicle development and innovation must continue in the future. For example, we already receive emails about the e-step that is now falling between shore and ship. In the coming months there will be consultations on an integrated safety assessment. I think that's really good. I'd like to give you two things for it. One. There is no such thing as a risk-free society. Let's keep an eye on that, please. Two. I miss the market players in the list of interlocutors. My question is whether the Minister would also like these market players to join in the integrated safety assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A terrible disaster, the drama in Oss. But that makes sure that the Netherlands was clear at once: it is undesirable that everything can go on the road without proper safety inspection. Looking back, you must be surprised to see that our predecessors have made safety subordinate to innovation, fast procedures and minimum requirements. The admission procedure must therefore be changed. And there must always be a focus on safety. Priority number one. I don't want that being blackmailed. Does the Minister agree with us? What lessons has the Minister learned from this case for himself and for her ministry? Does it recognise that the Court has been selectively and fragmentedly informed? How does she look back on her own actions? The Research Council proposes to make a catch-up for scooters and electric baking bikes. These vehicles have been exempted from authorisation since 1992 and 2002 and have now been substantially developed. All motorised disabled vehicles shall be admitted without an authorisation procedure provided that they are equipped for public transport. Do I therefore understand that these vehicles can be used without any form of assessment of the safety risks? They are for the most vulnerable groups and security is not well secured, while they are widely used and provided. We therefore warmly welcome a catch-up action. For over a year we have been asking for an emergency device, a brake system for scooters. We also want the disabled and the elderly to have an action perspective in the event of an imminent accident. There were troubles every time. What's the Minister gonna do now? She cannot really think that she is having another SWOV investigation into scooters? Last year's publication "Scootmobile Accidents, how do they arise and how can they be prevented?" The Commission's work programme At the request of 50PLUS, the scooters were added to the investigation. But we're not gonna keep investigating. We're gonna take action, aren't we? Can I therefore assume that SWOV's opinion will now be followed in concrete terms, at least the three promising measures relating to the vehicle? Thus, the scooter is equipped with a brake that allows the user to actively brake, improve the stability of the scooter by adjusting the vehicle design and providing the scooter with a steering angle protection. I would also like to know what the Minister will do with the recommendations of the Security Research Council. Will it carry out the comprehensive risk assessment and monitor developments? Does it take additional measures, including those already authorised? And what will she do with the admission of new vehicles? The colleagues said it all. Can I therefore assume that, in the event of a negative opinion from the National Road Traffic Agency, the vehicle is not allowed on the road? Safety, I repeat, must always be a priority. I trust the Minister will support this, especially from now on. Perhaps one small point, as colleagues have just said. At the moment there is an electric step on offer at the Makro. €199, a very nice, black, cute thingy. But I don't think it's allowed on the public road. How do you know that as a citizen? And how are we going to ensure that not everyone is tempted to buy such a step?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'd like to suspend the sitting until 7:00, so we can have dinner break now. Following the resumption of the meeting, the Minister will reply. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u85	We will continue with the debate on stint. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several Members of Parliament have said: this is a debate that you would rather not have had. Because the reason to talk about this is the terrible accident with the stint in Oss, in which four young children died and a counselor and a fifth child were seriously injured. I would like to join in what Members of Parliament have already said, namely that we are very sympathetic today to the families of this terrible accident and the families of these victims. For them, too, today is a very difficult day. On the admission of stint, the OVV has recently issued a clear report, for which I am also very grateful. I feel it as my deep responsibility to learn lessons from this. That's what I feel for the victims and especially for the next of kin from Oss. I think you all recognize the feeling: like there's a horse on your chest. That's how the pressure feels to learn from this. The OVV concludes that there was too little attention to safety, because innovation was at the heart of it at the time. The OVV also indicates that a lot of things did not go well when the stint was admitted. I personally, as a minister, am very concerned about that. And that should be better, because security must be first. Immediately after the report was published, I informed you how I would like to deal with the recommendations of the OVV. I'll take it in full. I'll take it in full. I would like to answer the questions of the Chamber along the following themes. First of all, I want to look back at the role of the Ministry. In fact, you have asked for this: will the Minister look back and give it its own reflection? I'll get started on that in a minute. I would then like to look at the way in which I have informed the Chamber of this matter. Several Members of Parliament have rightly asked questions about that block. Then I will go into the question of admission in particular. And finally, I will address the follow-up to the OVV recommendations, aimed at the future. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the reflection on how the Ministry has acted all these years. I want to be very clear about that, because that is what you asked for. I am responsible for the actions of my ministry. Mistakes have been made and I find that very painful and I am very sorry for that. I would therefore like to apologize in public at this place for failing my ministry. I hear "thank you" from the stands. Let me say nothing about that, but I'm glad you're reacting that way. The frame was too light and safety was not paramount. When the framework was created, no thought was given to the transport of persons. When this was dealt with by the stint, as far as I was able to figure out, it was insufficient to see whether this framework was sufficient for the approval of passenger transport. Only the RDW was asked to take this into account for stability. There was also a difference between the requirements and the method of testing on the brake road, which means that the stint was approved with a brake road that did not meet the requirements. The difference was already known, but nothing was done with it in the examination of the stint. It has been concluded that the stint did not meet the size requirements, but this did not lead to a continuation. SWOV's critical advice has only been given to the manufacturer as a point of interest. In addition, regardless of the opinions, the decision-making process had been mandated at official level. All this has led to a stint on the road that should never have been allowed in that form. There was also no monitoring thereafter. This made it impossible to monitor the effects on road safety of the admission of new vehicles. Why and how exactly these considerations have been made? You have all pointed this out, and I shall come back to the information provision in a moment. I have not been able to find out many points. That also makes me very unsatisfying. I can only conclude that these points were not adequately addressed at the time. The conclusion that all these mistakes have been made is hard, but also very clear. I find that very painful and I am very sorry. Then there's the information, Mr. Chairman. Following the Oss accident and the measures I took immediately afterwards, your Chamber had many questions. That was right, and I understand that. A lot has been started: advice pathways of the RDW and SWOV, TNO's research and meanwhile the research of the OVV was also ongoing. There were legal procedures, there were WOB requests and the accident investigation is still ongoing. Right after the accident, I shared with the Chamber the information we had at the time, including the inspection reports. I have also tried to inform the Chamber as well as possible in the subsequent period, taking into account, of course, the interests of third parties and the interests of the ongoing investigations. In the meantime, on the basis of the report of the OVV, we have a solid picture of the considerations made at the time in the design of the admission. This gives us a clear picture of what we should have done and what lessons we should learn from it for the future. As for the missing annexes, I wrote to your Chamber in my letter of 25 September. The pieces you're referring to weren't accidentally sent to the Chamber last October. They were two annexes of documents sent to the Chamber. We found out a few weeks later, because a medium had made a request to us. We then considered sending those pieces separately to the Chamber. We didn't, because we thought "there's actually no new information in it." The information wasn't new. When I see what has become of uncertainty about it, I can now beat myself in the head that I didn't do it anyway. If you are talking about drawing lessons, I will forward anything that I think can be relevant, even if it may not be new, to you in future. A lot of questions have been asked about the brake road. I have been asked why I did not inform you of this earlier and more explicitly. In its investigation, TNO looked at the suspected vehicle offered to the RDW in 2011. TNO found that this vehicle did not meet the desired brake deceleration. Following the findings of TNO, which we received on 13 December, it was examined why they did not correspond to the findings of the RDW at the time. While we were looking into this, your Chamber asked me a number of questions, including the question about the braking delay following the TNO report, which you had also studied and which you had questions about. I answered those questions on 18 January 2019. I wrote in the answer to question 7 that, as TNO also established in its investigation, the stint does not meet the requirement of the 4 m/s2 when it is assessed on its own, independently of the prescribed method of assessment. I have also written to you that the wording of the method of assessment should have been more unambiguous. That's what I meant, of course. The RDW has taken the mode of approval as the starting point and used the braking track of 3.86 meters as an absolute standard. Those questions of your Chamber have been running about in parallel with the fact that we have been looking for them from TNO, starting from the report. So it was obvious to just answer those questions, because that's the first time. You had already asked a question about this as a Chamber; I answered it. This is completely public, as of course all the parliamentary questions and the answers to them are accessible to everyone. That's how I did it. I will only deal with all the criticisms you have made and all the questions about the provision of information at once. Mrs Van der Graaf asked: why was the withdrawal decision not sent to the Chamber? Your Chamber was informed with the letter of 5 February 2019 about the decision to formally withdraw the designation of the stint as a special moped. The decision itself is addressed to the manufacturer as an interested party. Nor was it reasonable to make this decision public on its own initiative. Following an explicit request from your Chamber, the decision was sent to you on 8 October following the manufacturer's agreement. Then there is Mr Stoffer's question. Was the Ministry aware before of the length requirement being exceeded by the stint? In my letter to your Chamber today, I repeat that an internal e-mail from the ministry of mid-August 2011 found that the stint did not meet the length requirement. And as reported to your Chamber on 23 January 2018, it has been found that the length of the stint exceeded the maximum allowed length when listing all the information, including for the purposes of the OVV study. As I wrote at the time, it is unclear why nothing was said about this later in the RDW test report. Again, I have to say that we have not been able to determine whether this information from August 2011 has given rise to action towards the RDW or otherwise. We just couldn't find anything about that. I think it is of the utmost importance that I always inform your Chamber in the right way in time. I have just indicated to you that, where possible, I will look at it even more closely. Even though it may seem the same information to us, if it is written down in a different way, it may still be relevant to you. So I can only say that I am going to look at that even more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u87	I would like to know whether all the questions relating to the provision of information to the Court have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u88	There is one question that has also been asked: how can there be a difference between what the Chamber has received of information and the documents in a WOB request and the documents that the OVV has? It is of course important that the Chamber has all the right and relevant information. I believe that Mrs Kröger said the same thing: of course in the context of your supervisory and co-legislative role. The advantages of providing information in relation to individual documents, such as a WOB request, may be that it enables the Court to be more specifically informed and that context might be illustrated or other relevant information could be provided. So we will continue to do so as best we can. Why does the OVV have more insight? The OVV has far-reaching legal powers to obtain information in the context of its research. Matters relating to the internal administration and the internal deliberations, so what happens internally in a ministry before a decision is reached, are always covered by a WOB request; they are not released. But the OVV does have the right to that information from its powers, and has therefore been given it. I think I have mentioned the most important thing about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u89	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I think that the 'thank you' of one of the relatives from the gallery actually includes everything. In doing so, the Minister has done justice to the appeal of all those involved. Having said that, I do have a question on the last point. The Minister says that she has not been able to find out about the considerations to give the green light while the RDW, SWOV and officials had indicated that it might not be wise to allow the stint. We had a public technical briefing yesterday. In that the OVV really said to me that there have been changes, indeed between officials. I'm not curious about the names or the persons. I am only very curious about the considerations that eventually led to the stint being accepted. I hope the Minister will be able to say something about this, or perhaps talk to the OVV about it and inform us about it in writing, so that it will not happen again from now on. Because I think that question lives with a lot of MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u90	Unfortunately, I can only repeat that we have shared with you what we have been able to find out and what is not covered by personal policy ideas. I remember Mrs Van der Graaf asking questions about this in the past. In general, that's just the rule we agreed on. Otherwise there will never be a proper internal administrative discussion. I stand here as Minister; I answer for everything. Individual civil servants can never do that. That is why their discussions and their views are not made known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u91	I understand that very well. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that I am not looking for personal opinions from civil servants. But I can very well imagine that precisely those personal exchanges of views eventually led to a certain consideration, in this case the consideration to allow the stint. That is why I am asking again. If those considerations can be traced back from those personal mail changes, share them with the Chamber, so that we can also make that assessment and also assess why this choice has been made. Because we can't. The Minister repeated ten times in eleven pages this afternoon that she cannot do this, but the OVV says: there has been a change, but what, we cannot say. That's what the minister says here. That is why I am calling for a little more out of this than we know now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u92	Then I'm repeating myself. There hasn't been a trade-off framework or anything like that. We have not been able to find out that there would be pieces that say: we think this or that is so important and that is why we did it. What we can see is that it did not go well. We will probably never find out what the trade-offs were underneath them again. But in any case, we now find that it has not been the right considerations. Road safety has not been paramount. That is why I have just taken this so seriously on behalf of the Ministry and on the basis of my responsibility. For whatever considerations have been behind it, the end result has not been that safety was paramount. I feel responsible for that too, and I want to work hard on it, because that is the best we can do now. We need to make sure this doesn't happen again. And that is why I really want to fully accept all the recommendations of the OVV, especially when it comes to not wanting to make these kinds of considerations at the Ministry and certainly not at official level. I changed that the day after the accident, when we found out that the mandate arrangement was this way, immediately. It can no longer be possible for a deviation from a negative opinion to be removed from the administration. I want to see for myself. Luckily, we haven't had it anymore. The recommendation to do this truly independently of the Ministry is something I really want to take on board. That is why, as I wrote in the letter, we have engaged a consultant to make it clear to us as soon as possible how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u93	The PVV welcomes the latter: the minister says that she is taking over these things and that she no longer wants to do so. It is also explicitly laid down in the law we once passed. It says that only the Minister can make a decision. So I too was surprised by the OVV, which said that a decision might have been taken at official level. I hope the Minister still wants to look for a change with something in it. The consideration to deviate, especially in the case of an innovative, experimental law, I think... It was such a crucial story, so I still don't understand why it's not there. I can't reach it with my head. My question remains: is the Minister prepared to check again whether there really is a note somewhere? If necessary, we will hear it confidentially, but it would be good if we knew what the consideration was to deviate. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u94	Of course, I've also wondered myself: why did they do this, why did they let the stint in anyway? Why is it laid down at official level? There's a lot of why questions in there that I don't think we can figure out anymore. The fact remains that, whatever considerations have been underneath, the end result has been wrong. We must now ensure that we have a proper balance-sheet framework so that this cannot happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u95	I have a second question on another point. Do we have all the documents and, if so, can the Minister take us into the story about the information provision, SZW, the Labour Inspectorate, which is now cycling somewhere in between? It may be due to the Machinery Directive. The room was never included, but we can see them coming back now. What does this mean? Were SZW, Labour Inspectorate, ILT, you name it, according to the Machinery Directive responsible for supervision? Why didn't the Chamber hear that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u96	I shall come back to the Machinery Directive in a moment. That will certainly be discussed further down the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u97	I would like to thank the Minister for so clearly outlining and apologizing for the role and responsibility of the Minister, the Ministry. I think that's incredibly important. That is why we are asking for this information. However clear the role over what went wrong at the ministry, the question remains whether the minister would not have preferred to have made it clear before, for the OVV report, that an incredible amount has gone wrong, for example in the braking delay. And not in answer to question 7, not with attachments not sent to the Chamber, but just proactively explaining what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u98	In retrospect, I think this could have been better and clearer. We said earlier that it was not unambiguous in the belief that it did not really matter very much what the exact numbers were. The fact that there was a multi-interpretable way of checking, that it was not unambiguous, could have been supported by more information. Couldn't it have been proactive? Your room's questions were already there. That's just a normal public way of informing. If a question is asked, you will receive the answer. It would also have been a little crazy if we had sent you an answer to a Parliamentary question in exactly the same way in a separate letter. That's how it turned out. After the TNO report, you started asking questions as a Chamber, and of course we also started asking questions: how can there be a discrepancy between what TNO says and what RDW says? Of course, they looked at that together. Then you come together to the answer, and that is what you got right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u99	I understand what the Minister is saying, but the fact remains that the Minister needs an OVV report with harsh conclusions to admit here that her ministry has failed and to apologize, while all the facts from that OVV report were already clear. They are only softened and otherwise communicated to us as a Chamber. In my opinion, the fact that the stint was approved on the basis of a mistrial requirement alone had been a reason for the Minister to acknowledge that mistakes were made at her ministry and to apologize. Once again, I am grateful that this is happening now; let there be no misunderstanding about it. I just think it would have been good if that had happened much earlier and much more transparently. That was actually going on the moment that question 7 was answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u100	I have, of course, gradually shared the various errors, as they were discovered, with your Chamber. The OVV is precisely the organisation that would investigate the whole process of admission for us. We have also explicitly asked the Research Council to do so as far as possible. So I think it makes sense that now that we have that whole story on the table, we should take stock of it. Unfortunately, I have to say that it has not been one or two mistakes. One or two days after the accident, we have already reported that the advice of RDW and SWOV is not really traceable. That's what we shared with you back then. But after that, it became more. The story of the braking delay has also become clear to us only after the TNO report. Unfortunately, we've discovered more and more what hasn't gone well either. That has not become clear at one time. With the O.V.V. report, we've got everything we need. So now is also the time for me to share with you the whole list of all the mistakes and to apologize for that total.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u101	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u102	Then I'll really get to the admissions. Mr Wassenberg has asked: who has actually taken the decision to allow the stint despite the negative opinion? Actually, I've already answered that. That was done at the official level, because it was mandated. After the accident, we changed that immediately, so we can never do it again. Then there is the Machinery Directive, which Mrs Kröger, among others, has asked questions about. How is it only now clear that the Machinery Directive applies to special mopeds, such as stint? The application of the Machinery Directive to special mopeds has been unclear as it is not specifically intended to promote the safety of vehicles that are also used on the road. Last summer, the European Commission indicated, because we were unclear about this, that the Machinery Directive also applies to special mopeds. Until that clarity was provided, those special mopeds were mainly treated as vehicles with corresponding regulations and frameworks. In the meantime it has become clear that we only know since this summer that a special moped should also be seen as a machine. That means that from the moment we realized that, the regulators of the Machinery Directive, namely the SWZ Inspection and NVWA, have a role to play in this. Those supervisors have been involved from that point on and have also provided advice on the new interim admission framework. So they're in on it from now on. But it was simply not known before. Mr Van Dijk has asked why no additional safety research has been carried out on admission. As I informed your Chamber earlier, I had that checked, also at the request of Mrs Van der Graaf. But that research has not produced any additional information that gives more insight into the considerations that were made at the time in order not to carry out any further research. We simply don't know. In hindsight, you say, "They should have done it." Why didn't they do it? We don't know. The same goes for the question of where is the document arguing why RDW and SWOV opinions have not been taken over. We haven't been able to find that piece. I don't think there's a piece. I do not know why officials have reached that conclusion. I'm sure they shouldn't have come to that conclusion. Mr Van Aalst asked why the stint was not re-approved at the time on the basis of the final requirements. Designation decisions published between 2010 and 2018 were for an indefinite period. There was no legal basis to re-assess vehicles previously identified on the basis of older requirements. In the temporary admission framework that has been in force since 2 May of this year, we have adapted it. Because, of course, you have a point in your own right. We have now established that if technical admission requirements are further tightened in the future, so on top of what we have now, for whatever reason, a new technical development or whatever, those stricter requirements will also apply to manufacturers who already have an indication. This is just as it is regulated in Europe for European vehicles. How is it possible that RDW started working, while it was known that the method of checking brake deceleration would be changed, Mr Stoffer asks. The RDW based its assessment on the concept requirements and the methods of approval as sent to RDW by the Ministry in April 2011. In the further development of the concept requirements and the method of approval towards the final requirements, it was noted in May 2011 that the method of approval actually had to be adapted, because the text refers to a top speed of 20 km/h, while special mopeds are allowed to drive up to 25 km/h. But this also applies to the fact that we have not been able to determine at the time whether or not it has been considered to anticipate that later amendment of the method of approval when assessing the stint. Here too, we regret to note that whatever was or was not discussed, it did not happen when it should have. Is it true that the Ministry has advised the manufacturer about the application as a special moped? I also answered that question in writing today. In a letter from the manufacturer of the stint of 1 September 2011, addressed to his relations, it is stated that the manufacturer has been in contact with various public authorities, including RDW, municipality and police academy, about bringing this on the road. But we have not been able to trace exactly which body the manufacturer has pointed out the possibility of applying as a special moped. Then the scooters and the electric baking bikes. Why does this not apply to approval? Electric baking bikes currently fall into the category of bicycles. As a result, this does not apply to the authorisation framework. Scooters are disabled vehicles and are therefore exempt from authorisation both at European and national level. This is to make the threshold for participation in society by disabled people as low as possible. Mrs Van Brenk said something about this. I also wholeheartedly support this recommendation from the OVV. Their first main recommendation is: take care of that integrated safety analysis. Of course, you are absolutely right to say that safety must also be paramount in the case of disabled vehicles. They have the same right to do so as with all other vehicles. I shall come back to that later on in the future. How'd it go with the width requirement? I have informed you that in 2011 the concept requirements had a maximum width of 75 centimeters. Following the start of this notification procedure to the European Commission, the intention was to adapt this requirement to 1.10 metres, which was then the already allowed width for disabled vehicles driving on the bike path, on the road and so on. A new notification procedure has been followed for this new width requirement. Ministerial settlement of 19 January 2012, which entered into force on 1 April 2012, actually established this requirement. Mrs Kröger asked whether the Ministry had made an assessment of whether the stint was within the European framework. This is one of the few points we have found. The European framework was established in 2011 by Directive 2002/24/EC on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheeled vehicles and quadricycles. That Directive also applied to quadricycles of vehicle categories L6e and L7e. It's a little technical, but I'll call it all anyway. Those were light and heavy quads and quadri-mobiles. Of course, these are very different vehicles than the stint. The Directive also states that the vehicle to be approved must have a driver's seat. All quadricycles covered by the directive like the quads were vehicles with a driver's seat, and they do not have the stint. We cannot fully figure it out, but it is possible that the reason why it was considered at the time that the stint fell outside the scope of the directive. But for that too, we have not been able to find out any trade-offs. In addition, it was known that it was also stated in several documents "the stint would not fall under the successor to the Directive, EU Regulation No. 168 from 2013, of which the concept was already known. That Regulation shows that a light quadricycle is equipped with a maximum of two seats including the driver's seat. The stint did not meet the condition of a seat and is therefore another vehicle. I can see that there is a difference of opinion with the OVV on how things should have been at the time. I think that this is another reason why we need to join the European framework in the future, so that we can no longer have this kind of difference. You either fall under it or you don't fall under it; that needs to be clear. I could give you some considerations about this. You have also seen them in the table in the report of the OVV. The Ministry indicated that the main argument was that the stint had no seat and that it therefore did not fall within the European framework in the view of the Ministry at the time. I do have some considerations here, but we are not getting along very well with them. I think we should be all about this in order to be clear about it. It is my great preference, like the OVV, to regulate as many things as possible at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u103	Were these the questions about admission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u104	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u105	Good. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u106	I will come back to the machinery directive. The Minister states that she did not really know until last summer that the stint was going to be covered by the Machinery Directive and that this would also entail responsibilities in terms of supervision. When did the Ministry inform the European Commission whether the stint was covered by the Machinery Directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u107	If you would like to hear a date specifically, I cannot give it to you at this time. I really have to ask if I can get back to that in the second term, because I really don't know that. I do not want to take any action at all, but I want to be able to inform you very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u108	I believe that there has been much earlier contact with the European Commission, which, in my view, also stated that it was covered. I'd like to hear it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u109	We're gonna find out. Mr. Chairman. I come to the block of recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mrs Kröger on the previous part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u111	Still, about the machinery directive. In fact, the Ministry found out this summer that the stint has been covered by the Machinery Directive all along, so since 2011. What kind of supervision, for example, of those modifications of the stint by the producer should have been there? Does that mean it didn't happen? That should have been the case, given that the stint should have been covered by the Machinery Directive since 2011.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u112	There was therefore a lack of clarity as to whether the Machinery Directive was applicable or not. In the second term, I would like to return to the exact dates. But it is only this summer that we were told by the European Commission that it is covered by the Machinery Directive. There was no such clarity before that. If you don't know, you can't maintain. From the moment it became clear, there was a direct connection, in the contacts with the Inspection SZW and of course with the NVWA. You have also seen that, in the temporary admission framework, we tried to set up supervision as soon as possible. I'll tell you a little bit more about how far we're at ILT. We have of course immediately involved the Inspection SZW, which has also come up with advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u113	It is clear to me that it was only this summer that it became clear to the Ministry that the stint was covered by the Machinery Directive, but that, of course, means that it was covered from 2011 onwards, i.e. from the time of admission. The machinery directive was there all along. Any vehicle that comes under national rules on the road and is not covered by the European Directive is de facto covered by the Machinery Directive. This has been the case since 2011. My question to the Minister was about forms of monitoring, for example, those modifications of the stint by the producer. What should have been monitored from 2011 onwards and in what form?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u114	With regard to the machinery directive, I would like to say a little more precisely in the second period that the manufacturer himself is responsible for the safety of the machine. That is where the responsibility really lies with the manufacturer. This is how it works: if there are signals, it will be monitored afterwards. So it really is a form of signal monitoring that applies to that machinery directive. The responsibility lies primarily with the manufacturer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u115	The principle of conformity, which was not the subject of the Directive on special mopeds, but which was the subject of the Machinery Directive, had been applied. The fact is that the producer modified the stint without any re-examination and without any supervision. We discussed this earlier in a debate about how things could have changed all of a sudden. That should have been monitored by the Machinery Directive since 2011.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u116	If Mrs Kröger will allow me, I would like to check whether conformity monitoring is based on the machinery directive. I didn't think so, but I'd like to get back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u117	Yes. Then Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u118	I would like to inform the Minister, at least for the second time, that the answers to questions from the Chamber on the Machinery Directive in January have already been given that special mopeds are covered by the Machinery Directive. I am therefore somewhat surprised that the Minister now says: we did not know that until the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u119	This summer, we received confirmation from the European Commission that the Machinery Directive applies. But you're going into a lot of detail right now. I'll check it out and then I'll get back to you in exactly the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u120	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u121	A fair question is, of course, what I am going to do as a minister with the recommendations in the OVV report. I would like to repeat once again that I want to take it fully and as quickly as possible, all of them. I say to Mr Schonis that I sometimes think: how complicated it is to convey it all very clearly. 'Cause you're right. Here too, I may be a little confused by saying at the end of the letter that I also take the recommendations to heart. I certainly did not want to suggest that that could be something of not being fully taken over. So I'd like to take that misunderstanding away from this. So I want to take full account of the recommendations. This means, first of all, that I have just told Mr Laçin that I am going to ensure that there is an independent assessment of the admission of new vehicles. This can be secured via various routes. The optimum assurance of this independence could be the introduction of a European type-approval for these types of vehicles. This is also indicated by the OVV as an important recommendation. I'm very much in favour of that. I would also very much like to argue this in a European context, but you also know that the lead time for achieving European regulation is often long. It can take up to six years. That is why, in any case, I should like to deal with a number of matters myself in advance. I want to create a new national framework for light electric vehicles and special mopeds, actually for all four categories as the OVV designates them. That goes from the lightly motorized disabled vehicles to the exempted vehicles, such as the baking bike and so on, as well as the whole new category of monowheels, hoverboards, electric scooters, you name it all. But I'll come back later and tell you a little bit more about that. As the OVV explained to you yesterday, that really requires a solid foundation. You don't get that after one night of ice cream. As they have described it, the relationship between man, technology and the environment must be the bar we are going to pass all these different vehicles. Then you have to come to a logical category layout: what does a device look like technically, what does that mean for safety and what is such a vehicle meant for? Then you have to take into account what that means for road safety. Over the next few weeks we will be talking to the ANWB, the RAI, the Association of Insurance Companies, the Cyclists Association, the VNG and a number of large municipalities. I would also like to say to Mr Stoffer: of course we are also talking to market players, very certainly. We're also talking to the elderly's unions. We speak with Each (in). So we will be happy to involve all stakeholders who are aware of this and who are involved, because I am also curious about the views of all these parties on the OVV report. I think it is important to take their position, the view of the users, into account. I would like to underline once again what the OVV says: safe use must be an integral part of the risk assessment. I would like to inform you in December, for the next general discussion, of the initial findings. That will not be more than initial findings, but I really intend to forward the outline of the foundation of this new framework to your Chamber before the coming summer. Meanwhile, I am also exploring how we can set up an independent inspection body. I would like to inform you about the progress made and how we are going to do this in December for AO Road Safety, so that we may be able to take steps to set up such a body in the spring. Mr Stoffer has already given some ideas on this or asked a number of questions. I'll take his input on that. I hope to be able to give you an initial outline of what everyone in the field thinks about road safety. Until then, I will always ask for additional advice from now on on SWOV's security reports and, as I have already given your Chamber but would like to underline once again, I will follow the opinions of RDW and SWOV as if they were already binding at this time. I will also work with the manufacturers of the other special mopeds already authorised, that is to say the other sixteen, because the OVV also recommends this. We are talking to the RDW to see how we can contact those manufacturers to do a check there as well. Mr Wassenberg has asked: can the Minister promise that SWOV and RDW will always carry out extensive tests on future authorisations and that a lighter review cannot be chosen for cost considerations or for reasons of speed, innovation or whatever? Mr Wassenberg and I share the view that careful decision-making and road safety should go beyond speed and innovation. So I can certainly give that commitment. How exactly that is framed, we'll talk to your room about that. Then, of course, we will also share these proposals with you. What role will the Inspection SZW get, asks Mr Van Dijk. Do they have enough capacity? The Inspection SZW and the NVWA are designated as supervisors on those aspects of the Machinery Directive. They are also going to supervise this. Such monitoring shall ensure that products which do not comply with the Directive are not placed on the market. As I have just said in the direction of Mrs Kröger, this control is only carried out afterwards, on the basis of signals and notifications. So it's really risk-oriented. The ILT conducts talks with the SZW and NVWA about the longer-term implementation of the supervisory tasks and their coordination, so that we do not return to the situation in which one thinks that the other does control or supervise them. It must be very clear which inspection is to be monitored so that there can be no misunderstandings about it. When will the new tests of the remaining 16 be completed? That's what you asked. How do you deal with the existing vehicles? And is there an integrated risk assessment for this? The Research Council recommended that additional measures be taken, if necessary, for the special mopeds already authorised. They also say that they are going to look at risk analyses to see whether safety needs to be improved there too. In doing so, care is taken for time. The RDW advises me to have the RDW first carry out an inventory with the manufacturers. This will show which vehicles are still being produced. For example, previous contacts with manufacturers have shown that the Virto and Virto S, which were allowed at the time, are no longer produced. In the first quarter, the RDW has completed that inventory and a plan of action, as we have heard from them. In any event, that plan will include the results of that inventory, including a quick scan of the vehicles and the production process, an assessment when the manufacturer can meet the intermediate framework, how to deal with the remainder of any stocks and a description of how the manufacturer can be supported. So we can see that in the first quarter of next year. The RDW also says they're gonna free up enough manpower for that. If vehicles are brought under the interim framework, SWOV will also assess safety by vehicle. I have just indicated to you that I will, of course, follow those advices. Will independent experts now have time and space to carry out thorough research in the new framework? Yeah, experts definitely get room and time for that. I'm going to follow the advice of RDW and SWOV. I have also told you that I will inform you of the state of play before the AA of 18 December. Mrs De Pater has also asked for specific attention to SWOV. She asked: how will the Minister organise structural advice by SWOV? SWOV receives an annual grant of EUR 4 million. It's been committed for the next five years. SWOV shall, in good consultation with the Ministry, draw up an activity plan for the use of the grant. For the coming year, this consultation is in full swing. This consultation will have to show whether there is a need for more than the annual structural subsidy. Through separate assignments, we can always ask SWOV to take on additional cases. So I would like to take this further into account in the consultation with SWOV, because I think you have a point to make when you say that, of course, some extras are coming towards SWOV. But how that goes exactly, I would like to enter into consultation with SWOV on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u122	I can see you, Mrs De Pater, but I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer all the questions concerning the recommendations. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer has asked if the cabinet will maintain more on light electric vehicles that are not allowed. We are looking at whether a registration requirement can be introduced for all special mopeds. It is intended to give that a place in the final authorisation framework. That's what enforcement is all about, and it's a lot easier if you have a license plate. We will also have an execution test carried out on that. Of course I want to keep fighting illegal vehicles on the road. With the Minister of JenV, with whom I have a number of other subjects to discuss that we have just discussed in the budget, I will discuss this point again. But he indicates that the use of illegal vehicles is fined when those vehicles are found. Again, a registration requirement can help and we will discuss this further. There'll be a test on it. Mrs Van Brenk asks how we prevent the sale of unauthorised vehicles, such as skateboards and hoverboards. NVWA maintains market surveillance of electric vehicles covered by the Machinery Directive or the Toys Directive and intended for consumer use. This market surveillance is a condition that you have established not 100% because consumers buy stuff that is not allowed to be used on public roads and often do not know it. But the police can at least maintain on the public road. We will discuss with the NVWA how this can be improved. That will really be part of the broader consideration of how we deal with all these new types of vehicles. Mrs Van der Graaf says that the OVV indicates that 20% of the victims fall into the category of light motorised vehicles and she asks if we all have that in mind. That's actually a bit of a rhetorical question. Mrs. Van der Graaf doesn't put it for nothing. The fact that we do not have a good picture of this concerns her as much as the OVV and me. The CBS indicates the number of deaths per vehicle type, but that is gross. In 2018, 57 fatal accidents were recorded with an e-bike, 44 fatal accidents with a scooter, 5 with a moped, 34 with a moped/snorbike and 12 with other unknown vehicles, including the stint. It wasn't registered separately. When an innovative vehicle is allowed, I want to monitor the impact on road safety. One of the action points following the recommendations of the OVV is for me to see how we can improve this in accident registration. Mr Stoffer missed the market players in the integrated safety assessment. I just told you, I want to get into it, too. We will certainly take advantage of the knowledge and expertise of a party like TNO. That is what we have done in relation to the temporary admission framework. TNO was already involved in the investigation back then. We not only wanted to follow TNO's recommendations, but also asked RDW, SWOV, a number of professors from technical universities and all kinds of people who had expertise to think with us. Specific reference has been made to the added value of a registration requirement. It is easier for enforcement if the holder of the vehicle is registered and known. In addition, the vehicle characteristics are fixed in a central register, which makes it easier to enforce on illegal vehicles. We shall be discussing this in greater detail in the future. The same applies to the question raised concerning the further clarification of the bindingness of the new opinions by an independent body. Right now, you're asking me about this. We've asked an expert to advise us. As soon as we get the first line of that, I'll come to your room with that. Mr Dijkstra asked a question which is somewhat in line with a number of other questions. Can the authorisation process for electric bikes, disabled vehicles and similar vehicles be reviewed? I am waiting for the final report from Arcadis, which has carried out a scan of electric bakery bikes for passenger transport. I will present that report to the Chamber as soon as possible. If the investigation shows that action is needed to ensure security, then I will set that in motion immediately. I expect to be able to offer it to the Chamber in four weeks. I also want the new framework to apply to disabled vehicles, because, of course, every vehicle must be safe. I just said that to Mrs Van Brenn. Honestly, it is quite a strange observation that there is nothing to that at the moment. You just don't think about it. Again, it is certainly necessary for vehicles used by vulnerable road users. Let's get more specific about the scooter. The OVV recommends exploring the possibility of including motorised disabled vehicles in the European admission system, or establishing a national authorisation for these vehicles. I take this into account in the broad national framework for admission. Of course, the scooters in it are a priority group, especially because of the list I have just mentioned to you, with the number of accidents that have occurred with it. You will therefore be informed about this in more detail within the framework of the plan of action. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions I had about the recommendations, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u124	It is good to hear that SWOV and RDW's additional opinions will already be seen as binding. I'm a little worried about SWOV's activity planning. The Minister indicated that room could be made for the RDW, but I know that SWOV is already full and projects have to be postponed to 2020 and 2021. These are all very important projects. I would not want these important projects to be pushed forward because we now have to do this important thing. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she would like to look again at how to ensure that both can be done. I think we should then move towards additional capacity so that both sides of road safety can be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u125	I fully agree with Mrs De Pater that this should not jeopardise all other important studies carried out by SWOV or planned to be carried out. That doesn't mean we're gonna get anywhere with it. SWOV has a very wide range of cases to investigate. I would therefore like to tell Mrs De Pater to talk to SWOV about this and see what is needed. I don't want any other investigations to be compromised either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u126	I have another question about the part in which the Minister talked about European type-approval. We know that there are European directives, such as the Machinery Directive and national categories. But are there any initiatives outside these directives to achieve European type-approval? If so, what is the state of play? The Minister knows that, looking ahead to electric steps and the like, I am curious how we can arrange this quickly and above all safely for the Netherlands. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u127	There is a plan in Europe to work with the light electric vehicles. That includes this very wide package. It is my commitment to invite them to the Netherlands as soon as we can make an appointment with the new Commissioner who is going to do so, or to visit them in order to put this issue wide on the map and ensure that it is speeded up. I am also making an offer to the European Commission to organise a conference, seminar or other European meeting here in the Netherlands, to put it on the map at European level as well. Because whether it's the steps in Paris or the accidents in Germany, I've already talked to Mr Wüst of North Rhine-Westphalia about it. You can see that all over Europe these kinds of issues are involved. It is nice for users of these vehicles to know where they are going all over Europe, but that also applies to manufacturers, because they can then sell their products in all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u128	That's a clear answer. I think we will discuss this further in another debate. The only thing I want to say is that European type-approval must not, of course, lead us here in the Netherlands to have nothing more to say about the vehicles that drive around here. A second check of whether any form of enforcement will certainly have to be guaranteed. But that is a perspective for the future, and those are plans. Can the Minister confirm that she agrees that enforcement and some supervision here in the Netherlands should also be properly regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u129	Sure. I very much agree with Mr Laçin. I think we should have that ambition together, knowing that European laws and regulations will soon take you five or six years before it is finished. I also said I don't want to wait for that. We are working on a national framework and, of course, monitoring and enforcement is an important part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u130	I am pleased to hear the Minister say that a SWOV opinion will be binding on her in the near future. I am very happy about that, because SWOV already has an opinion, especially on the area of scooters. SWOV has already done a thorough investigation and then indicated three points which can improve the vehicle. Can I assume that the Minister will now accept these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mrs Van Brenk has rightly mentioned these three points. But she also knows that the scooters fall into the category of lightly motorized disabled vehicles. So I have no framework, no legal basis on which I can back down to enforce cases. We have already spoken to manufacturers, as the Chamber knows. We asked SWOV for advice. Slowly, what could happen has become more and more clear. Mrs Van Brenk also mentions the good examples of this. But in order for things to be really enforced, we need to put them under a framework. However, I would like to talk to my fellow Members from VWS, who, of course, have certain views on this, in order to see how we can ensure that road safety is also at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u132	I'm gonna try again anyway. We now know that there is no safety check at all. Anyone can just put those things on the market. The SWOV research has shown that you can make improvements to the scooters. Those improvements have been there for over a year. We've been asking for it for a year. The question now is how we can ensure that at least those three points are secured as quickly as possible. Let us at least ensure that this is done for the new models. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u133	I would like to propose the following to Mrs Van Brenk. For AO Roads and road safety, in the letter that we always send in advance, I will set out exactly what we can do with the recommendations and what instruments we have in our hands to enforce matters. I will set out what the possibilities and opportunities are and what it would take to do things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'm glad I have that commitment. I would have liked to have clarified one more point. The minister just said she wants to go to an independent inspection institute. Isn't that the Road Traffic Agency? What's a new institute gonna do other than the DMV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u135	That's what we need to look for. That's how I saw the OVV's recommendation. For technical safety it is obvious that it is the RDW, but of course we also have the place in traffic. What they say then: man, technique and relationship with the environment. SWOV advises on this. You have to put that together somehow, so that one instance says "yes" or "no." That can't just be the DMV, because it's just about the technique. It can't just be SWOV, because it's not about the technical requirements. So we need to find a form for that where one instance can say "yes" or "no." We need to find a solution to that. That is why I asked for advice on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I begin by thanking the Minister for her answers. One answer comes in the second term. But let me also thank her for the sincere apologies she made, especially towards the next of kin. I know how much that affects those people. I am grateful to her for having handled it that way today. A number of questions are still being answered. I have one motion for the second term. I think we are going to look very much ahead and hopefully not too much back because there are still a few things floating over the market. But at least this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need to look closely at road safety aspects in the admission of new vehicles;]] [[believes that road safety should always be on one side;]] [[calls on the Government to put road safety above innovation when introducing new vehicles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-761]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u138	And very briefly, Mr President. I believe that we can use this motion to repair what we have left behind at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr. Chairman. I ended my first term with: to be able to look forward, we need some things. As far as I am concerned, the Minister here has generously and openly apologized for the policy that has been pursued in recent years. We can conclude together that mistakes have been made. Hopefully, this debate will have enabled us to conclude it. I also hope that it will be the last time we have discussed such a sensitive subject so often and in this way within a year. I hope that's not gonna happen again. Of course, the prosecution's investigation into the accident is still underway. I'm sure we'll talk about that. Today, in addition to the apologies, I was particularly concerned with the recommendations of the OVV and the questions I asked. I am therefore pleased to hear that the Minister is taking on board the recommendations and is also going to implement them. We have a motion from D66, which will be tabled shortly, signed on that point. I hope once again that the Minister will actively inform the Chamber when matters of interest to us are brought to light even if it is not new so that we as a Chamber can judge for ourselves what we are doing with that information. At the AO on road safety I will certainly come back to the point for the future: the new, innovative vehicles. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u141	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I began my speech by saying that this is a debate that should never have taken place. That is what we, as MPs, think, but so does the Minister. I thank the Minister for her answers and for the apologies. Those excuses seem sincere and sincere. So great mistakes have been made in the admission of stint. Wrong buttons were turned at the wrong, decisive moment. I still find it unsatisfactory that there are still several gaps in the reconstruction of precisely where it went wrong and why. We don't know everything and we probably don't get to know everything either. I find that frustrating, especially on this subject. It is important that lessons are learned from this. The Minister undertakes to take these OVV opinions fully and as soon as possible. I wanted to table a motion on this, but after the Minister's promise, that is no longer necessary. I do think it is important for the Minister to keep us actively informed. That's what we're gonna keep tracking. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a difficult and emotional debate. We heard the minister right. She has fully answered all the questions but also sincerely apologized for the mistakes that have been made in the past. We appreciate her taking responsibility. With the full adoption of the recommendations of the OVV, we can hopefully also ensure that it is done in a calm manner and that road safety is always first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. This has been an important and intense debate, a debate which has led to terrible suffering. It is important to me that a government is transparent when mistakes are made. It is important that responsibility is taken. This is crucial for citizens' confidence in the government and for the supervisory role of the Chamber. That was missing until tonight's debate. We've been given too much unclear information for months. And the minister looked in all sorts of places at what had gone wrong, but not enough at what had gone wrong at her own ministry. I am very grateful to the Minister that she fully recognises tonight that mistakes have been made in her ministry and that she has apologized. Again, now we can look forward again. That is why we believe it is important that we quickly get an action plan that states how the recommendations of the OVV are followed and that the government is committed to ensuring security. It is precisely a government that really guarantees security that offers opportunities for innovation. I look forward to receiving the second-term answers on the Machinery Directive, because there is still a lot to be done. In particular, the question is how long the Ministry was aware that it was in place and what the implications are for the maintenance of all the changes to the stint that have been made since 2011. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u147	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I am satisfied with the Minister's answers and explanations. We have seen a minister who is very committed and sincere. That's good. It is also a good thing, in substance, that the recommendations of the OVV are taken on board in their entirety and that the lessons learned from them have been discussed here. That is an important step that we, as a Chamber, are taking together. For the VVD and everyone: safety is of course paramount. I would like to add that I would not like anyone who is on a bike or a skateboard to wear a helmet in a moment or that we should turn the half million three-wheeled scooters into quadricycles. Because, of course, the need for mobility remains. Mobility gives people the freedom to move. I do not want to limit it, but safety must of course be paramount. The OVV has indicated that it is a race to which categories of new and existing vehicles belong. That has grown a bit organically, but we now have to put a good structure in it. I think that's a call to all of us. I welcome the plan of action with all the partners in the field, which the Minister has just mentioned, and that she is already taking this very seriously. I also think that it fits in very well with the Strategic Plan on Road Safety, for which we, as the Dutch House of Representatives, cleared 10 million last year and which I would also like to see followed up. It's a good thing we have a common focus on that. Finally, to ourselves: in addition to being representatives of the people, we must also check and, therefore, give away what needs to be done. I therefore hope that today we have been able to give something to the Minister which will make the Netherlands a bit better and safer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr Dijkstra's remark struck me in the wrong throat: does everyone now have to wear a helmet, and do all the scooters have to go to quadricycles? There are 44 fatal accidents with the scooters. There are opinions from SWOV. The first time I mentioned this, there was also very laughing in this Chamber, but I hope that also for the VVD security is priority number one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u150	Absolutely. What I would like to point out is that there is no such thing as a completely risk-free society. But of course, we want her as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I now give the floor to Mr Schonis, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Debates over the stint are always very loaded. From this point on, I would like to express my deep appreciation to the Minister for the way in which she has just apologized. I do think that the OVV report clearly points out to us that the interests of road safety should always be first and foremost. I am therefore very pleased to hear that the Minister is simply adopting the recommendations of the OVV one-on-one. To point out that this is also very important to the Chamber, I shall table one motion. This is actually in line, but you should consider that as a recommendation. It was worn very widely in the Chamber, and reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the report on lessons from the stint accident, the Safety Research Council (OVV) makes three valuable recommendations on improving the admission of special vehicles on public roads;]] [[Whereas the Court wishes to adopt these recommendations;]] [[calls on the Government to present a concrete proposal to the House of Representatives as soon as possible on how the three recommendations of the OVV report can be worked out and also to indicate how the conclusions are followed up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Schonis, Mr De Pater-Postma, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Aalst.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-762]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. Then I give the floor to Mrs De Pater-Postma, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we have had this debate together. It has been a respectful debate, reflecting on what has gone wrong. We found it very important and also very nice how the Minister apologized, also in a very respectful way. We are also very pleased with the undertaking that the recommendations of the OVV will be taken on board. If we have to remember one thing, we have to deal very closely with road safety and keep it on one side. We were just talking about that very important task that SWOV is getting into. I would like to make another motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the past the Stichting Scientific Research on Road Safety (SWOV) gave advice in the form of a quickscan on the road safety of a new vehicle;]] [[noting that the reason for this was that the opinion should not be expensive and should be implemented within the existing subsidy;]] [[Considering that SWOV should be able to carry out extensive investigations and be given more tasks, as, for example, it is expected that more vehicles will have to be tested and SWOV will provide additional advice on each application, which will also be binding on decision-making;]] [[Whereas it is important that this type of work should not be at the expense of their current important work;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the additional work which SWOV will carry out on the inspection of new vehicles will not be at the expense of the current work carried out by SWOV and to inform the Chamber before the Road Safety Office in December of how this will be secured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members De Pater-Postma, Van der Graaf, Schonis and Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-763]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u155	Thank you, Mrs De Pater. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to begin by expressing my deep appreciation for this Minister for the way in which she has just indicated that the conclusions of the OVV on the action of the Ministry were very hard, very clear and also painful, and that she has apologized for that. Colleagues also pointed out that this is quite a loaded debate. We all feel that here, because we know what happened. The Christian Union also considers it very important to learn good lessons from the past before looking ahead to the future. That also requires a critical look at that. I believe that we have given it to the Chamber today, and we have seen it from the Minister. This minister also feels a deep responsibility to prevent accidents such as those with the stint. We have confidence in the approach she has put forward today. The Minister also indicated the number of fatal accidents involving light motorised vehicles, and expressed concern about the increase in the number of accidents involved. That is why I have a motion on behalf of all the spokesmen who have spoken here in the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in its conclusion of the "Safe admission on the road" report, the Safety Research Council notes that there are currently no specific accident figures for different light motor vehicles;]] [[Whereas accident rates are an important part of our information on road safety;]] [[calls on the Ministry to consult relevant parties such as police and other aid providers and insurers to improve understanding of accident figures of light motorised vehicles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Graaf, Schonis, Remco Dijkstra, De Pater-Postma, Stoffer, Kröger, Gijs van Dijk, Laçin, Van Brenn, Wassenberg and Van Aalst.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-764]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr. Chairman. I have a commitment, but I also want a stick behind the door. But I've already indicated in advance that I'm quite willing to hold on to it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2018 the Road Safety Research Foundation published an in-depth study called "Scootmobile Accidents: How do they arise and how can they be prevented?';]] [[whereas this study mentions promising measures, but no progress has been made so far;]] [[Whereas the Safety Research Council recommends a catch-up action for motorised disabled vehicles, including scooters;]] [[Invites the Minister to take the promising vehicle safety measures of the scooter mentioned in the SWOV report, namely:]] [[Scooters equipped with a brake that allows the user to actively brake;]] [[improve the stability of the scooter mobile;]] [[Scooters equipped with steering angle protection;]] [[to achieve this as soon as possible and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-765]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for taking full responsibility for the stint accident. Great appreciation for that. We wish all the next of kin very much strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. Let me see if the Minister needs a short suspension or if she can answer directly. Yeah, you can, I see. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the very respectful way in which we have been able to hold this debate together. I think that also fits in very well with such a terrible accident, and I think we have been able to do that with each other in a good way. Before I respond to the motions, I will answer a few more questions. First of all, I come to the Machinery Directive. Is there any conformity of production? Would there be anything else if there was supervision on the basis of the Machinery Directive? Under the Machinery Directive, the manufacturer himself is responsible. There is also a responsibility to ensure the conformity of production. If a manufacturer changes its product, he must re-execute the risk assessments and the adaptation of the safety measures in accordance with the Machinery Directive. This is not assessed in advance by the Inspection SZW, but afterwards on the basis of risk-based monitoring and signals. This is an important difference with vehicle authorisation, whereby a vehicle is tested in advance for compliance, which we are now doing in the temporary authorisation framework for the special mopeds. A change in the product does not mean that the Machinery Directive is no longer being complied with. The manufacturer shall re-assess this himself. It may be that an amendment under the vehicle regulation is not allowed, whereas this is not a problem under the Machinery Directive in itself. That is because they are two different frameworks, where supervision is carried out on one front and on the other on the basis of signals afterwards. When did we know that the Machinery Directive was applicable? Mr Van Aalst asked questions about this. On 3 December 2018, I received advice from the RDW to explicitly declare the Machinery Directive applicable. On 5 December 2018, I informed your Chamber of this opinion of the RDW. Following this opinion, there was a lack of clarity between the different lawyers and departments. At the moment when an EU regulation such as that 168/2013 applies, it excludes the Machinery Directive. The question then was whether vehicles covered by the special mopeds policy rule are covered by the Machinery Directive or whether this policy rule excludes the Machinery Directive. In the light of this uncertainty, I sent a letter to the Commission on 14 May 2019. On 19 July 2019 I received a substantiated reply. I informed your Chamber on 2 August of this year. That's how it was put together in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u161	I don't think we're going to agree on this part entirely today. Maybe we should talk about it again sometime later. I think things have turned out differently. I think we've been working on this kind of thing before. I don't know if it's time to discuss it any more, but maybe I'll go through a few written questions and find out exactly how it went. I don't think this is right in the timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u162	There will be plenty of other occasions where you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u163	In my opinion, the answer to a number of questions also indicated that there was already contact at other times. I don't really understand why then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u164	I'll give you the order as it went. If you want to ask written questions about this, that is of course always fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u165	I, too, would like to get it in writing from the Minister. The Machinery Directive has therefore been applicable since 2011. What implications does this have for the stint at the different times when different forms of stint have come on the road? What has been the role of the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u166	I don't think I can promise that right now. If Mrs Kröger wishes to put these questions in writing, I will, of course, be happy to answer them in very detail. You just formulated them. Perhaps we can interpret the questions you have just asked as questions on which you will receive a written reply. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u167	The actual questions that have been answered today include an assessment of the inspection on the basis of the Machinery Directive and the Warenwet that has just been given. The inspection has just come up against the stint. I would ask the Minister to make the underlying documents, i.e. the decisions, public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u168	This is going to be a lot now. Let me see how we can return in writing to all the questions you have asked about the Machinery Directive as well and as angry as it is going to be. If you have any further questions about it, we can talk again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u169	Yeah, I'm fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u170	Then I'll get to the motions, Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. Mr Van Aalst asked 761 to put road safety above innovation when introducing new vehicles. I think that has actually been the main point of this debate. I can give this motion a heartfelt judgment Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 762 of Mr Schonis's hand, which everyone has actually been behind. Indeed, I would very much like to come up with a concrete proposal as soon as possible on how we will work out the three recommendations contained in the OVV report. So this motion also likes to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 763 by Mrs De Pater, asks the government to ensure that the additional work which SWOV will carry out on the inspection of new vehicles is not at the expense of other investigations. This motion, too, I can give judgment to Chamber. The motion in part No. 764 by Mrs Van der Graaf asks the Ministry to consult with relevant parties, such as police and other aid workers and insurers, in order to make accident figures of light motorised vehicles easier to understand. I would also like to make this motion a Chamber of Justice. The motion in part No. 765 by Mrs Van Brenk asks for the promising measures on the vehicle safety of the scooter, as mentioned in the SWOV report, namely: motor scooters equipped with a brake that can actively brake the user, an emergency device; improving the stability of the scooter mobile; ensuring that scooters are equipped with steering angle protection as soon as possible and informing the Chamber about this. Mrs Van Brenk herself felt that this would probably be the subject of an opinion to hold the motion. I would indeed ask her to do so, because I would like, as I suggested earlier, to first identify what I can actually do with that. I would also like to discuss this first with the parties involved, for example the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America. I would therefore ask you to hold this motion until the general consultation on 18 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'd like to hear that, Mrs. Van Brenn. You're holding your motion in part No. 765 on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u172	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u173	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (29398, No. 765). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u174	Mr President, then those were the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u175	Thank you. I would like to thank you very much for this intense debate. That wasn't easy. But I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for the dignified way in which this debate has been conducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-7.u176	We will vote on the motions tabled next week. I wish the victims who have followed this debate in all manner of ways much strength on behalf of the whole Chamber. For now, I'm gonna suspend the meeting.
