ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the amendment to Book 2 of the Civil Code, to the Financial Supervision Act and to the Securities Act implementing the Directive amending the Directive as regards the promotion of the long-term involvement of shareholders, i.e. Chamber No. 35058.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Legal Protection. Thank you for joining us. We have six speakers from the Chamber. The first participant is Mr Van Gent of the VVD group. He asked for three minutes of speaking time for himself and he simply received it. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal aims to implement an EU directive. The aim is to increase the involvement of shareholders and to promote transparency between companies and investors. The VVD welcomes this proposal. We agree that the influence of shareholders, in the economic sense actually the owners of companies, should be increased. This applies in particular to the remuneration policy of directors. There's social unrest about this. The VVD therefore believes that there should be broad support among shareholders if the supervisory board is to establish a change in directors' remuneration. Please note that in almost all cases we are talking about an increase in remuneration. A reduction is often not reasonable. The VVD wants to go even further than the present bill. That is why we have the amendment on item No. 18. It states that a change in remuneration policy must be supported by at least 75% of the shareholders. However, under administrative law, we attach great importance to regulatory law. That is why we have included in our amendment that the company statute may make an exception to this remuneration policy. If parties and stakeholders are to come together, we believe that there should be room for this. You can see, for example, that there are currently differences between the statutes of the different companies. For example, there are companies in which decisions are taken by a different majority, a two-thirds majority, on the dismissal of directors or on an amendment to the statutes, and sometimes even a three-quarters majority decision is required. Finally, we have tabled a second amendment together with D66, with my colleague Mr Sneller. This is the exception for small and medium-sized stock exchange companies. In the Netherlands we have over 130 listed companies. At present 27 of these are classified as small or medium-sized. As far as the VVD is concerned, that does not justify an exception. We therefore believe that small and medium-sized enterprises should also be given the remuneration report to the Ava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. Then Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. You have ten minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yes. I'll try to do it faster. Mr. Chairman. "I believe in the free market and I am rarely accused of being very left, but I am convinced that it is better for society to reduce the pay gap rather than increase it." This is what our finance minister said a few weeks ago at the Bilderberg lecture, and I must say that I recognize myself in several respects in this statement. The question is: does the Minister for Legal Protection share this view? There is a major social debate on the increase in inequality and, more specifically, on pay differentials within large companies. Once Nobel laureate Jan Tinbergen said that the highest boss in a company should not earn more than five times the lowest salary. In 1985, the top 100 largest companies in the Netherlands already earned sixteen times more than modal. In 2007 that was 44 times and now the chairman of the 25 AEX funds earn 171 times more than an average Dutch employee. We know that from Bloomberg's research. This weekend we read in the Volkskrant that former CEO Polman at Unilever last year even made 283 as much as his average employee. Mr. Chairman. The top rewards no longer have any relationship with performance or with justified or justified pay differences within companies. They are the result of international peer pressure and status struggle, which has increased exponentially and continues to rise. This debate is not just about inequality and the differences. They explain the grumpyness of large groups of people about the unfair distribution of benefits of our globalised economies. I think we share this Chamberwide. In fact, even in the Anglo-Saxon countries, the debate has developed over the last few years on the fact that shareholder capitalism and its corporate governance should have been pushed through and adapted. We even read interesting stories about this in the most liberal magazines such as the Financial Times and the Economist. It's time for action. That is why it is a good thing that we are discussing this bill today. There are a number of good things in this law: the regime for shareholder identification, transparency obligations for institutional investors, more influence of shareholders on directors' remuneration. GroenLinks therefore supports the bill. But this is also an opportunity for further corrections and for a new balance sheet in the corporate governance of large companies to address the growing pay gap. More influence is needed for both employees and critical and active shareholders. Yesterday I was in VK and almost all the political groups in a debate on the Banking Rewards Initiative Act indicated that something should be done about the pay gap between the top of the business and the workplace. From left to right, nobody in this Chamber is actually satisfied with a gap that is at least 171 times modal. This shows how broad the political support is to reduce this pay gap. GroenLinks therefore has six proposals today. Given the tone of yesterday's debate, I hope the coalition will support it. I'm gonna go check them out for a little bit. The first proposal is for workers to have a right of assent if drivers are more advanced than workers. At the moment, an annual discussion between the board and the or on the development of remuneration relationships is mandatory, but we must also give workers more influence if the gap is to increase further. 'Cause that's what nobody wants in the end. That is why we propose a right of assent for the works council if the pay gap is likely to widen. The second proposal. In the case of large companies, there must be at least one Commissioner on the remuneration committee on behalf of the employees. If companies have a remuneration committee, GroenLinks wants the commissioner appointed on the recommendation of the works council to be automatically part of this committee. I am pleased that this amendment has also been signed by D66 and the Christian Union, by Mr Sneller and Mr Bruins. Three. Companies are required by law to take into account social support for salaries. We want the remuneration policy to be more stakeholder-oriented. Companies are required to explain how the identity, mission and value of the company has been taken into account, the rewards of the workplace and the interests of employees, customers and society. Financial companies have already been legally regulated for this purpose, and the government wants to strengthen this even further as a result of the new Banking Code. I think it is a good thing that we are doing this with other large companies. Four. An increase in the driver's salary must always be submitted to the shareholders. This amendment requires shareholders to give explicit consent when the proposed increase in driver's salary is greater than the increase in salary in the workplace. This will prevent large increases in directors' fixed remuneration from being carried out without the approval of shareholders, as such increases are not considered a material change in remuneration policy. No more tricks to avoid critical shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	A question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	I hope I have arrived at the right amendment. I think that is the amendment to item No. 10, in which it concerns the addition of the phrase: with each material change. Could Mr Snels explain a little more what he understands by material change? In my view, there is a risk that any change in salary will be made at the shareholders' meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	Perhaps it would be good if I gave an example; I had that in my text too. Last year, the permanent salary of the CEO of National Netherlands increased by 15% due to peer group developments. In fact, due to incremental adjustments, the CEO's fixed salary increased by 40% between 2015 and 2018. This was without the explicit approval of the shareholders because the Commissioners did not consider it to be a material change of remuneration policy. Mr Sneller asks what standard you can set for this. I think that is very difficult, but the most objective standard is ultimately whether the gap between directors' salaries and modal workers' salaries is widening or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	In the example mentioned by Mr Snels, we are talking about 15% and 40%. I understand that kind of percentages; that is a material change. But in the explanatory statement to Mr Snels's amendment, as he puts it in his closing sentences, it is true that when the proposed change in the remuneration of directors is greater than or equal to the increase in the salary of the average worker. In some years this could be a material change of 2% or 3%. Then it is not entirely appropriate to what Mr Snels actually means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	I think it is very difficult to set up a percentage here, because it is completely arbitrary, whether it is 10%, 40%, 5% or 2%. Therefore, the standard was chosen to compare it with the modal worker. At the same time, we have regulated it in the amendment in such a way that it is based on a moving average of five years. So there is certainly some flexibility. It can also mean that it is slightly higher in one year and a little lower in the other year. In any case, I try to indicate as objectively as possible what the term material ultimately means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	I believe that this is as relative as possible, but I understand Mr Snels so that he is concerned with these material changes. So if there are any adjustments to the amendment to define the material aspect, more in line with the first part of the explanatory statement, that is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	Certainly, I am open to adjustments if they make the amendment clear. What matters to me is that we should avoid tricks being used by directors and supervisory boards, not going to the shareholders' meeting, but automatically increasing the pay gap. That is ultimately the purpose of the amendment, The fifth proposal: an increase in the remuneration of directors can only take place if three quarters of the shareholders agree. This makes it easier for critical shareholders to reject controversial proposals for a new remuneration policy, for example by a blocking minority of 25% plus 1 of the shareholders. I saw an amendment by the VVD which is very similar, but the amendment by the VVD makes an exception, which I do not quite know if that is sensible, because it would be very easy to circumvent the intention of this amendment. I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, the sixth proposal: administrative offices should not take the bulk of salary increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	I have a very practical question. We are talking here about a proposal one to six, but that does not quite correspond to the amendment numbers. In order to be absolutely clear on which amendment you are making which comments, it might be appropriate to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	I understand the question, but I cannot do that at the moment, because two amendments have now been amended to adjust the numbering. So I only kept my own order for a moment, but I was hoping that my explanation made clear what amendment it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	I'm not asking my question for nothing, but okay, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	I do not have a solution to this question at the moment. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	How do the two amendments relate to each other? The administrative offices then vote in favour of the Supervisory Board. Well, we recognize that problem. In the amendment before it, you already wanted to set the limit at 75%. Well, that would cover the problem of administration offices, wouldn't you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u18	Shall I finish this last proposal, Mr President, because that is what the question is about? This amendment provides that administrative offices will no longer be able to vote on remuneration issues on the shares for which no authorisation has been requested by depository receipt holders. This will prevent administrative offices from pushing through an amended remuneration policy or agreeing to the way in which the remuneration policy has been implemented, while the majority of depository receipt holders who have requested authorisation will oppose it at the general meeting. A practical example in which this amendment would have helped: last year, a proposal for an amended salary proposal at Van Lanschot Kempen could only be adopted by the votes cast by the Van Lanschot Kempen administration office. In this case, it would have been sufficient at that time. I think that at that time, in this specific example, three quarters of the votes would have been enough. Since we do not yet know exactly how this is going to work out in practice, I think it is very important. Maybe the Minister can tell us how these two relate to each other, but I do like that we have two locks on the door and not one. Certainly with your amendment, I have the impression that you are locking the door but opening a window at the same time. And I don't think that's quite the point. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks, like Minister Hoekstra, is convinced that we need to take measures to reduce the pay gap rather than increase it. Does the Minister for Legal Protection agree with GroenLinks that we need to take action and organise a new balance in the governance of large companies? I look forward to his opinion on the package of legislative amendments I have presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. Mr Van Dam from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you, Mr President. It takes some getting used to doing business as a Justice spokesperson with our economic friends from other groups. It's just a switch. I assume the Minister will have no problem with that, but I have to tell you quite frankly that I had to look into it. And I also noticed that as this law got closer to being dealt with, as a kind of tsunami also the number of amendments, amendments to amendments and I know what not all came for us. That suggested that, in a sense, this bill is also used ideologically to make a point about something that we are quite rightly concerned about with all of us. I, too, took up my Minister Wopke Hoekstra's speech at the Bilderberg Conference. I think the issue is clear. It's just the question: how do you want to achieve it? How do you want it to work in such huge fees in the boardrooms of large listed companies? That's what we're talking about here. When I look at it, with all due respect for the position of GroenLinks and perhaps also of other parties, I think the question is: do we want to force it here, or do we really want to facilitate some kind of cultural and mentality change at these board tables, in those boards of directors and with those shareholders? That, I think, is the essential question before us. I admit that I'm sketching it a little black and white, but the question is: do you want two locks on the door, or do you expect people to be able to handle it responsibly with a window in the room? Quite frankly, I'm just gonna wait for the debate. I'm gonna see how it goes and what the cabinet's reaction is. We, as the CDA Group, will later see how we want to achieve the goal that we all perhaps have the same. I have a few more technical questions for the Minister. An interesting point in the Directive is the rules introduced to improve the identification of shareholders, as well as the rules on the transfer of information and the facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights. In the written round we asked how these rules relate to the UBO register from the Wwft, to the Financial Supervision Act and to the initiative proposal Law Central Shareholders Register. The Minister's reply focuses on the purpose of the registers that have just been mentioned, but we wonder: how is this going to work out in practice? Are they gonna be three of the same kind of things? Is there a difference? So what are the differences? What does that mean for companies that have to deal with it? And behind that, of course, is the eager lookout for the legislation around that UBO register. What is the state of play here? Then there is a rather technical point in response to the opinion of the Joint Committee on Company Law. It also came back in the written round, but an answer always raises a new question. It concerns the possibility of avoiding "the authorisation requirement for physical transactions with a related party"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Combined Commission proposes a solution to address this possibility of avoidance, but the Minister states that it will not be "as far as possible" in line with the text of the Directive. Does this mean that the Minister accepts that there is a possibility of circumvention? Does he accept that? Is he perhaps aiming at the responsibility assumed at the top of this kind of enterprise? Is that in line with the directive? Maybe it's another window in that room, but I don't know if we can handle it... Finally, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister what this means for companies which, although they have established themselves in Europe, are not listed in Europe. Then you're talking about big companies from America and you name it. They do not seem to be covered by these obligations, but they do operate in the same domain as companies that are covered by these obligations. What does that mean for their functioning? Don't companies from America, China, Australia have a huge advantage over our puritanic companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u21	There is a question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u22	I was just triggered by Mr Van Dam's introduction, in which he said that this would also be an ideological debate. I don't think that was my intention. I didn't start Mr. Hoekstra's quote for nothing. I also referred to The Economist and the Financial Times for a reason. I would point out that this debate is taking place in all countries. I am concerned that both the left and the right think that the pay gap should be reduced. I say this with respect for the way in which we have organised and regulated corporate governance in laws and regulations. In all these proposals that are now on the table, from us but also from others, we need to see to what extent they can contribute to reducing this pay gap. I take it the CDA agrees with me, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u23	Ideology is like a diamond, which has multiple sides, allows several rays of light and also reflects all kinds of directions. At the point that is mentioned, the goal is that we want inequality to be reduced. The CDA and GroenLinks are very close together. Only the way it should be, I put it down a little tight, whether you force it to do so by making all kinds of rules in the law and making locks on doors, or that you are also heading for a sense of responsibility that is developing in my experience, for all kinds of reasons, in that sector, is an ideological element for me. That is why I am going to wait and see how the Minister responds to the amendments you have rightly tabled, to see how we position ourselves in relation to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u24	In my opinion, even that is not entirely correct and right, because I respect in all the proposals I make, not for nothing also the corporate governance structure that we have. It is also laid down in laws and regulations for a reason. This law adds another step to that. All I ask the CDA to do is to see how we can adapt the way in which the checks-and-balances in the organizational structure of large companies are regulated by all of us, so that we can put in place mechanisms that actually reduce the pay gap. Then it's not about locks on the door. I don't know if this is gonna work, either. I wonder what the Minister will say about that. But I'm gonna ask for that openness from the CDA anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u25	I also use this openness to say that I am going to allow the debate to function in such a way as to hear what the arguments are. By the way, the term "locks on the door" came from you. So I'm just chewing back and forth just what you yourself put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u26	I have also thought about Mr Van Dam's words. I fully understand his dilemma: do you have to go into laws and regulations and lay down things or rely on responsibility? The line of the CDA often tends to be more towards that second than the line of the left side of the Chamber. But I also had to think a little bit about the moral appeal that Prime Minister Kok made in 2001 with regard to top salaries. With that in mind, I would like to ask: does it not take very long to land with the drivers in question, when you see how long these discussions have been dragging on and how little progress we are making by constantly asking for a sense of responsibility that apparently is not there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think that Prime Minister Kok's appeal to you is an interesting example, because I believe that he himself has been a Commissioner at several large companies and that he has also struggled there with the question of how you put this into practice. Perhaps he has come to a conclusion there or has assumed a co-responsibility which he might not have thought possible in 2001. It's complicated matter. These are listed companies, so not about e.g. Pieterse here around the corner, where the boss eats his sandwiches with the employees between noon. No, it's very large professional organizations. Once again, you do not hear me say that we do not want that by definition, or that we say: we all leave it free. For me, in this legal process, that is the point at issue. I am putting that on the table here and I am bringing it up so that we can at least have a proper debate on it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u28	I agree with that last one anyway. I just want to say that perhaps we would have made it much easier for Commissioner Kok at the time if we had given more legal possibilities to curb salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a remarkable situation at Unilever: a top man who himself indicates that he already makes too much money. A refreshing sound that was, by the way. Almost half of the shareholders thought it was enough. But despite these powerful signals, he received a salary increase, thanks to a narrow majority of votes at the shareholders' meeting. This incident showed that many holders can and want to assess whether a reward proposal is actually good for the whole company. That look is now particularly needed at a time when the average CEO already earns the same amount in three days as average employees in a year. Then it is important to ensure that they can also be heard and that they are given the right information so that they can make an informed decision. That brings me to the directive itself. The additional requirements of transparency and reporting laid down in this law are a step in strengthening the checks-and-balances within those companies in all Member States. I believe that Europe has done a good job. This is good for companies, good for shareholders and good for employees. And thus good for the European economy and society as a whole. It seems, when I hear the discussion so far, that there is really very little discussion about this joint package. That's worth a compliment, including to this minister. So the basis is solid, and that is why today's debate is mainly about whether and, if so, how we continue to dress it, in an attempt to put some national headlines on this heavy law. Several amendments have already been tabled to this effect, mainly on the question of who decides and in what cases. For example, it concerns the majority required for decisions on remuneration. The Minister chooses 50% plus 1. Can he explain why he has sufficient support for remuneration policy with that majority? Does he not think that sustainable remuneration decisions are even better secured if 75% of shareholders support these decisions? What does he think of the possibility of deleting the statutory exceptions? That is the difference between the VVD's and GroenLinks' amendments. I'd like to hear his opinion on that. Who decides, is also and relevant question when the administration office majoritys. Some investors do not get shares, but only certificates. In practice, the administration office always agrees, rather than the depository receipt holders, who do not vote for the shareholders' meeting. So also about the remuneration policy. That is where the problem arises that administrative offices have never, as far as I know, voted against the proposed remuneration policy. For example, last year Van Lanschot Kempen was the case that only thanks to the administration office did the reward proposal achieve a majority. In my view, this waters down the voice of the real shareholders, who are supposed to be responsible for checks and balances within the company. In my view, the question is justified as to whether that is what an administration office is meant for. I am therefore very curious to hear the Minister's opinion on Mr Snels' amendment, because I understand very well what his motivation was. Mr. Chairman. The remuneration of directors is primarily the responsibility of shareholders. At the same time, the discussion and discontent are often about the remuneration relationships within a company. The works council is already entitled to written information on the remuneration arrangements and can discuss them with the director. However, in practice this still happens relatively little. That is why this conversation is explicitly included in the law. My colleague Mr Snels has tabled an amendment, and he has already mentioned it to the Commissioner who has been recommended by the or at least to be part of a remuneration committee, which is about remuneration. I would have liked to have co-signed that amendment, but I do think the question is justified if we should not give the or ourselves some more teeth to keep the balance, especially if we give shareholders more control, should we adopt one of the amendments. In the case of listed companies in particular, it would not be logical to give them an advisory right. That is why I think the right of consent or the veto is a little too far-reaching, but with such a right of advice, you are forcing a better justification of the justification for differences in remuneration within a company. By offering this opinion and the possible response to the general meeting, the vision of the shareholders can also be explicitly taken into account in the decision of shareholders. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I hope that has been distributed by now. Otherwise, it's gonna be here any minute. In that amendment, I place the advisory right in Book 2 of the Civil Code. In addition to the content of the Minister's opinion, I am also very curious about his legal opinion, because you could also choose to place it in the Works Councils Act. So I'd also like to hear his opinion on that point. Mr. Chairman. When the public debate is about bonuses, it is often about household names, big companies such as ING, Shell, Unilever; names that are known to everyone and speak to the imagination. That doesn't mean that pay decisions are always good if there hasn't been a resurrection in the media, because it happens to be a more unknown or smaller company. In fact, with a smaller company extra checks-and-balances can be needed. Involved and critical shareholders can also play that role, as Mr Van Gent has also argued. Because especially when a discussion leads to a vote, it is conducted sharply. Therefore, I do not think that the exception for listed SMEs is necessary. That is why I co-signed that amendment. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the implementation law provides a solid foundation and is already making a number of good steps forward in itself. But I think that we can make the law even more beautiful, and several colleagues and I have put forward proposals for it. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. A question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u33	About the works council's advisory right, because I think we are both looking, also in the checks-and-balances and in the structure of corporate governance, to what position you ultimately give to the works council. I am also curious about the legal assessment of the difference between the right of advice and the right of consent under certain conditions, because that is what my proposal says. Is it also impossible for Mr Sneller to take another look at these conditions, if we were to change them a little bit, to give some more teeth to that works council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Snels said in a previous interruption that he wanted to join the model of corporate governance as there is. I think it would be more appropriate to give the or an advisory power than to give it a right of consent/veto. It makes no difference to me under what conditions that happens next, but I think that the right of consent as such would be a little too much of an infringement of that model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u35	I am also curious about the Minister's opinion on this. At the same time, with all the amendments I have tabled, my intention is for them to contribute to the objective, and that objective is to reduce the pay gap. I wonder whether the right to advice will ultimately contribute to reducing the pay gap or whether we should not use a little heavier instruments. I would also like to hear the Minister's expectations on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u36	Then let's wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u37	We'll keep it exciting. Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the last few years, we have had to deal with one of the more negative aspects of the modern capitalist economy, namely the power of activist shareholders and the disruptive effect they can assume. The law that we are now dealing with with with the Law implementing the Long-Term Engagement Shareholders Directive sounds extremely attractive in this respect, because long-term involvement of shareholders ensures more stability and more growth of a company, which ultimately benefits society as a whole, provided, of course, that the profits are distributed in a good way, but that is another discussion. Mr. Chairman. We have seen how companies like Unilever, AkzoNobel and also V&D have become prey of an opposite movement in recent years. Hedgefunds and other short-term profit-oriented investment companies have either pumped these companies or forced them to sell parts of their business, which, for example, often resulted in nearly 7 billion investments by the margarine branch to the shareholders of Unilver..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is 7 billion that is not being reinvested in the company, but is paid out through special dividends. It is therefore good if the Netherlands and the European Union lose some of their naivety in this area and say: we must be aware of this long term. This also applies, of course, specifically to the remuneration of drivers, but before I say anything about it, much has already been said about it, and I would like to point out that the transparency provisions in this legislation are also extremely important for us. But funding is what society is by far the most interested in. Several speakers have already pointed out the great difference between the workplace and the summit, which is also socially unacceptable. The institutional investors, the long-term shareholders, are also occasionally flapping their ears, but they sometimes find that they do not have the opportunity to intervene. Hence in general positive sounds of the SP about this law. There is not much wrong with it, and what was wrong with it has now been repaired as far as we are concerned by a series of amendments tabled by colleagues. The problem is that this law is not so much inadequate when it comes to increasing the involvement of long-term shareholders, as it already exists in principle. Pension funds, insurers and banks already have a regular interest in the continuity of a company and are already critical of remuneration policies. It's all about giving them the resources they need. Where the legislative proposal falls short, it is to increase long-term engagement with shareholders who are primarily short-term oriented, e.g. hedge funds. This bill does not actually address the threat posed by hostile takeovers. It does not do anything about increasing the role of employees in the company's strategic policy, but Mr Snels' amendment is a good move. Policy making is reserved for governance, including the situation in which that strategy ultimately threatens to bring down the company, which is too easy if you leave it to activist shareholders. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, apart from this bill, how he sees the long-term involvement of those short-term shareholders. Does he expect this law to have any influence on that? Since the Dutch participation in Air France-KLM, we know the French system a little better and we see elements in it that we might look at. For example, you have the Flowering Act that provides for long-term shareholders to have double voting rights, creating an obstacle to short-term profit-seeking shareholders. What does the Minister think of this French example? Does he see an opportunity to implement something similar for the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Appreciate some of the amendments tabled, specifically Mr Snels's amendment which the works council wishes to give assent. The SP has also been strongly in favour of this for a long time. I myself have tabled an amendment which seeks to amend the law by deleting the possibility of derogating from the remuneration policy in particular cases. The Minister states that this is only true when it comes to threatening the continuity of the company. I understand that reasoning, but I am also afraid that we are now building a road that will allow the somewhat sloppy companies to get back out of that policy. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this passage is not necessary. The directive offers the opportunity to delete it, and we propose to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, it is a very fundamental debate how to organise your businesses in a country, and also in Europe. Do you do so on the basis of shareholder interests, according to the Anglo-Saxon model, or do you do so on the basis of the Rhineland-Palatinate or European model, where you actually weigh all the interests in society? By the way, there is also a lot of difference within Europe, because in England you really have the Anglo-Saxon model. In the Rhineland model, a company is not only owned by shareholders, but is more than that. It is also a working community in which you perform together, in which the interests of employees and society are balanced, including with the providers of capital. In fact, in that light, the PvdA Group also assesses the proposed amendments. We are in favour of all aspects on transparency. There isn't much discussion about that today either. You can say about the shareholder influence: on the one hand you move a bit towards the Anglo-Saxon model. These shareholders, especially with regard to rewards, sometimes argue for extra bonuses and extra skin in the game of directors. We don't have to go that way. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, we are going completely in the wrong direction. The top rewards of companies in the Netherlands are growing and growing, while employees' wages are lagging behind. So we don't really have to go that way. On the other hand, this law offers the possibility to give some back pressure against, for example, Van Lanschot. There we have all arranged it together a little bit and we have pushed through with voting advice and an administration office, without any reason, an increase in the remuneration of a few tonnes. That happened when the shareholders actually voted against it, but they did not have enough votes to counter it. So you can do something about that by giving those shareholders more influence. So how you organize it is quite precise; that's what it comes down to in a nutshell. I once wrote an own-initiative paper on private equity with Mr Groot. In it we made all kinds of tax proposals and also some proposals on increasing employee influence. Some of these proposals are also included in the GroenLinks amendments. I think it is very good to give this works council, the employee representation, a stronger position in that, in order to support that Rhineland model. I like to see that coalition parties also seem to embrace the proposals of GroenLinks, or at least two out of six and perhaps more. I think that is right and necessary, because if you only give it to shareholders, then there is a danger of overbiding. This certainly applies to financial institutions. When you talk to people from that sector, you notice that there's just a huge pressure from shareholders to pay higher bonuses, while some companies don't even want to. We don't have to go that way. I therefore believe that this is an essential element in this debate and also important for this law. Is it enriched or not? A second question that is really important in this discussion is what kind of shareholders you have. Are the shareholders focused on short-term profits? Are they hedge funds? Are they people who really just want to push things up, chase behind them and have no interest in where the company is or in what the company is doing at all? I've already mentioned the private equity funds. There are quite good parties, but there have also been real predatory capitalists, for example in childcare and the newspaper sector in the Netherlands. We've all gotten worse out of that. The question is, couldn't you do something about that? Mr Futselaar referred to the French model. It gives you more voting rights when you hold your shares for a year. I find that very attractive, especially in a country like the Netherlands, with pension funds that are long-term investors. What's the government's position on that? I think it would really be an enrichment if we chose to do so. Finally, Mr President. Culture and business decisions are not only determined by law, consent and consent. One of the biggest problems of the current Dutch business environment is the distance between the administrative summit and society. Every week we are treated to examples of this. That distance is also there because the diversity at the top is really not enough. I'm really convinced of that. It is not by chance that ING's board of directors still has zero women. And the Supervisory Board also does not meet the agreement in the law to have the objective of having at least one third of the top positions occupied by women. That's not a coincidence. It is not good that there is so little diversity in the Netherlands. The Netherlands really lags behind in Europe. The top men are unfortunately only men, chairman of the Dutch business community too, fully acknowledge this and then do nothing about it. I'll ask the cabinet what it's gonna do about that. Because you only get back to normal relationships and a little touch with society when you do something about it. I don't think another appeal from yet another ruler is enough. That is why the PvdA Group is now in favour of a quota. I ask the cabinet to consider this seriously. I have also heard the Minister for Emancipation about this. As far as she's concerned, she's pretty full. I'd say they haven't listened in ten years, so let them feel it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes, and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u42	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the legislative proposal implementing the Shareholders' Engagement Directive. Its aim is to promote the long-term involvement of shareholders and to create greater transparency between companies and investors. To this end, the Directive increases the influence of shareholders on the corporate governance of stock exchange companies and, on the other hand, places greater responsibility on institutional investors. We will, of course, have the debate on the amendments later, but I am glad to see that there is a broad, left-to-right view that this is an improvement. That's how I feel. Now we are talking about implementing legislation. The cabinet's starting point in implementing legislation is always some reluctance to add fringes, to put the national headlines on top of that once again. The second thing we are trying to do is to keep as much as possible in line with existing practice and regulation and, where possible, to use the implementation to apply the Member State options in such a way as to reduce the burden. That is actually the framework that we always assume. That is not a golden rule; there is always a departure, of course with you as a parliament. But these are also the things that you have given us and which explain why we are reluctant about some of those Member States' options. In addition, the Dutch system is of course marked by the fact that Dutch economy is an open economy. We live in an open capital market. We have a flexible company law, which is different from that of other countries with, for example, the Anglo-Saxon model. Mr Nijboer has just referred to this. We have the Rhineland model, where long-term value creation is more central anyway, and the management and supervisory board are not only required to represent the interests of the company and its shareholders, but also to look at the interests of, for example, employees and creditors. The government, we as system owners, you could say, is creating a balanced system in which all these interests come into their own. That is also different, I say in the direction of Mr Chris van Dam, for example, from the American system, which is more Anglo-Saxon-based. That is not covered by this directive. This means that you always have to find a balance in the implementation of the directive. You want to maintain the importance of your own model with your own values as well as possible. At the same time, they are companies that have to compete on a global scale. So you have to make sure that you don't build in competitive disadvantages that can turn out to be negative. That's a priority for the discussion on the pay gap. I understand that very well, but this is not just an implementation of a directive that is trying to do something about a more responsible remuneration policy. We must also always pay attention to the investment climate in the Netherlands and what that means for shareholders. In short, it's always looking for a balance. About the rewards. The government is not about the level of directors' remuneration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u44	However, I would like to ask one question before we continue the debate, because that creates some clarity. I believe that the corporate governance arrangements within Europe are still very different. The German model is fundamentally different from the Dutch model. The Minister of Finance stated that the pay gap should be reduced and not widened. Is that an objective that Minister Dekker shares and which should at least be the basis for the further discussion that we are going to have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u45	I share that theorem. At the same time, I note that the government is not about the rewards in companies in which it does not participate. Part of it is also a moral judgment and a call she makes. Moreover, this appeal is not only made by the Cabinet, but also increasingly takes place in companies themselves, in boardrooms and in shareholders' meetings. I think that is very good and right. However, it does not mean that we are going to put an extra or a final squeeze on it with the implementation of this directive. We are going to introduce a number of measures that will at least broaden the debate and ask that this not only be in the circle of directors and supervisory boards, but also to involve shareholders regularly. I think that's a good relationship. We're about to talk about the finesses, for example whether you want to give employees a role in it through the OR. You can argue about that. I may be heading your way a little bit, but not quite because I also see risks in parts. But it's always looking for a balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u46	Sure, I'll share that. But in his introduction the Minister said: it is also a moral debate. I don't think it's just a moral debate. The government as the owner of the system also deals with the checks-and-balances in that system. So we need to think about how we organized it and whether they can contribute to reducing the pay gap. I understand very well that this was not the intention of this implementation law, but this is an opportunity to take steps forward in those checks-and-balances to ensure that the pay gap is at least not widening, but rather narrowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u47	I believe that this will contribute to this. The debate will then be the extent to which it is taking place. There you go a step further than I would suggest. I will tell you exactly where my concerns are when I advise you on the amendments. Let me return to the point that, of course, we are not formally discussing it: the discussion on the decision-making of remuneration takes place within the company. In my view, that should also take place there. The law and the Dutch governance code provide a framework for this. The Supervisory Board shall submit a proposal for remuneration policy to the works council and shareholders. The Or can form a position on it, which the shareholders can then involve in their judgment. In the end, it is the ava that determines the remuneration policy, the remuneration policy. What's new for the Netherlands? We already know some of the provisions of the directive in the Netherlands. This applies, for example, to the rules on the identification of shareholders and the obligation to have a remuneration policy established by the Ava. I shall therefore deal with the new aspects in particular in the future. Companies must submit the remuneration policy to the ava every four years. That's one of the new parts. It is new in the sense that it should also be if the policy has not changed. In addition, the remuneration report should be submitted to the general meeting each year. The remuneration report should provide information on the relationship between directors' and supervisory remuneration and the average salary of employees. That's one of the parts. If that's what you're obligated to reveal, there's a discussion about it. In my view, this can lead to moderation. Without having to go over it, we can make a contribution to the discussion. Another important improvement lies in the arrangement on the related party transaction. Imagine a company granting a loan to its shareholders on very favourable terms. As a minority shareholder, you would probably like to be aware of this. This information is only now published afterwards, in the annual report. Any non-martk-compliant physical transactions with associated parties should be revealed and approved by the IRC as soon as they are entered into. In summary, these are all transactions with a related party that is price sensitive. Mr Van Dam then asked about subsidiaries. Since the parent company is usually a shareholder of those subsidiaries, this is actually offset by the measure in question. Bringing a subsidiary into the legislation and extending its basis would not, in my view, make much difference. Before I go into the amendments, I have one more comment. There is another letter of amendment, but it deals mainly with technical issues. Under Article 2:135a (2) BW, the ava is obliged to adopt the policy every four years. The Directive does not impose an obligation on the ava but on the company to submit this policy to the ava at least every four years. This will be restored. Article 2:187 BW restores a translation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u48	Will we receive this letter of amendment before Tuesday's votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u49	Sure. He's in the making; maybe even this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u50	That's what we're gonna write down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the amendments. And then I'm gonna close with a couple of questions. I shall begin with the most far-reaching amendment. Mr Snels proposed a right of assent. That is an amendment which I do not wish to recommend. Not only is there a national headline, but the level of remuneration of directors and supervisory directors is ultimately the shareholders, not the government and not the employees. That doesn't mean I don't like the fact that employees have something to say about that. That's right. This has been arranged in the Netherlands. Also internationally, employees in the Netherlands already have a lot of influence on the remuneration of directors and supervisory directors. For example, it has the right to take a position on the company's remuneration policy. In addition, the or annually discusses the remuneration relationships. This is, by the way, a fairly new part. I suggest that we wait and see how that works out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u52	Is that amendment in part No. 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u53	Exactly. I shall now turn to Amendment No 1, which seeks to amend the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Snels, rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I Is it Faster or Faster? Oh, yeah, you're right. I have two versions. I have the number 17 version and underneath the number 14 version, but it is now number 17, also with extensive signature. A preliminary remark and I shall go a long way in this amendment. Mr Snels said in his speech: well, then the Commissioner who is there on behalf of the workers must be on the committee. In the Netherlands, we have a system in which every Commissioner is basically right and has the same interest. It's not some kind of interest representation. I don't think we should go there either. I see Mr. Snels nodding. Having said that, I would have no objection to this amendment and I can leave it to the Chamber. Two amendments have been tabled on qualified majority voting when the remuneration policy is defined. I would like to start with Mr Snels's. There are also a number of preliminary remarks. I understand the movement that a number of groups in this Chamber want to make. They say: it would be good to have a broader support base for changes in remuneration policy. If a plus is added, this should not be done by a narrow majority, but should be supported by a wider consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u54	What number are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u55	I am talking about the amendment to item No. 11 and then over...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u56	Numbers 11 and 8, I hear from the audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u57	I have the amendments to item Nos. 11 and 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u58	First of all, do the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u59	I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 11. Why do we propose to stick to a normal 50% majority, plus one because you can have a discussion? For remuneration policy, you want a broad support base, but perhaps for a statute change as well. What justifies that difference? You could say you want a dampening effect on the remuneration policy. You have to have a heavier majority if you want to put a plus on that. That could work the other way, too. We also sometimes see that there is a discussion about people leaving on a substantial salary: will we re-examine this and see if we can get more socially acceptable rewards again? I'd like to pass on the following to the Chamber. If you agree to an increase in remuneration policy, these kinds of movements also require a greater majority. They will therefore become more difficult. Maybe they're a little less common, but still. Why do I prefer Mr Van Gent's amendment to that of Mr Snels? That is because Mr Van Gent's proposal offers the opportunity to derogate by means of statutes. This has an advantage, because some companies have already regulated this in their statutes. This way you won't get a discrepancy when the law is passed because the law says one thing and one statute says the other. Then, of course, the law prevails, but that still gives a somewhat diffuse image and perhaps confusion. You offer the company, or at least the ava, an opportunity to deviate from that reasoning. In other words, my tendency would be to have a preference for Mr Van Gent's amendment, on which I leave the judgement to the Chamber. I'll do that with some hesitation. Anyway, I noticed: look out, because if you're going to weigh this down, that also makes austerity more difficult. I am more reluctant to accept Mr Snels' amendment. I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u60	So in the case of the amendment to item No. 18, Previously part No. 8 is the verdict of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u61	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u62	And the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Snels is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u65	I have two questions, Mr President. I understand the Minister's hesitation, but he can imagine that this increased voting rights could be interesting. He could therefore pass judgment on both amendments to the Chamber. That is what my first question is about. My second question is whether the Minister sees the danger that it will now be very easy for companies to change the statutes quickly, so that the amendment will no longer have any effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u66	I don't see that last danger that easily. This must be implemented very quickly. In a manner of speaking, you do take a very bad view if you expect there to be a company that would like to arrange this quickly with an extra ava written out. With all the deadlines to be met, I think that is rather complicated. I believe that you leave room for what is already in statutes and that in the future you may leave room for an ava to deviate rationally. That would be my preference. Can I give them both judgment room? The cabinet is about its own judgments. If I have to choose, I have a preference for the one. In fact, I think that the course proposed by Mr Snels is slightly sharper in the wind and offers just too little flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u67	It is usually the case that judgements also have something to do with feasibility and not just with desirability and political preference. That's what I'm tasting in there, and I'm sorry about that. I'm afraid I'm gonna lose this fight if I look at coalition relations like that. May I at least ask the Minister whether he would like to monitor what is happening with this amendment, and also in the future, because a change of statutes is taking place by simple majority. It is not necessarily necessary before the entry into force of this bill, but it may take the next two years for statutes to be amended in order not to have to comply with that voting ratio.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u68	I think that makes a lot of sense. I understand this fear a little bit too. I do not think that we should start from that. But if it did, we'd have a completely different case. Then I surrender, I say, and you're right. I think we should give this a chance, without getting it all shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u69	I think that Mr Snels is quickly leaving his head hanging on this point. I don't know him like that. For I would like to ask: what exactly is the Minister's expectation based on, that this is not simply done by stock exchange companies, especially in order to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u70	This is also based on a broader wish, including from institutional investors, for example. They say: we think it is so important that there is greater support for this type of thing. So we're going to start from thinking about the bad: that companies and shareholders don't want this at all and that they're going to try to get around it with a U-turn construction. I don't see that one-two-three. But there may be good reasons to deviate from it. I came from a normal majority at all. Of course, I also weigh the wish and I see that this wish is in the Chamber in two variants. Then I would opt for the variant where you still have some room to maintain the agreements, where they are already made in the statutes, and to maintain that flexibility. That's a trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u71	I understand that very well. I also appreciate the Minister's substantive argument. I think he is extremely flexible in this respect, given the implementation law as he himself sent it to the Chamber. My fear, and also that of institutional investors, is that there are a number of companies in which the majority shareholder is also associated with the administration and where the remuneration ratio is now relatively uneven. It is precisely there that it is difficult to obtain this amendment of the statutes, which is already the case. So how do we deal with that in the future, except by monitoring it, as proposed by Mr Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u72	It may be that something else has already been laid down in the statutes. That would not change if you agreed to the Van Gent amendment. But it is precisely the flexibility that is being sought here, not to use a sort of line for all companies, but rather to rely on a default option: 75%, unless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u73	It might be a question for the second term, but since the Minister is already dealing with the amendments in the first period, let me put them to you. Perhaps he could indicate, possibly in the second term, or already, what is needed now to change the statutes? Is that with an additional majority or can it just be with a 50% decision? For that is of course important in the context of the appreciation of these amendments, how low the threshold is that one has to pass to obtain the amendment of the statutes at all. It seems relevant to my assessment that he would give me that information again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u74	In principle, all decisions are taken by the ava by a normal majority, i.e. 50% plus 1. So that includes the statutes. Again: unless otherwise specified. Because you can of course change your own statutes again, so that you will need another majority for an amendment of your statutes. But in principle, all decisions, including investment decisions to be submitted, are normal majority decisions. Hence, that I was initially reluctant to say: what justifies a remuneration decision?, And to raise the threshold significantly for this, even with the possible disadvantages that it may have, just where a movement is starting to moderate it a little more. 'Cause that's gonna be harder. I am therefore in line with the Van Gent amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u75	We still have six amendments to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u76	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12. It's about the administration offices. I find that difficult, because administration offices are there to ensure that voting does not result in accidental majorities due to the absence of certain shareholders. The clustering of voting rights is therefore relevant there. From a formal point of view, certificate holders are not shareholders either. The shareholder is also the administration office, and that administration office issues certificates giving entitlement to a certain dividend. So if we now say for the specific section of remuneration policy that they should abstain from voting, or have additional permission from the underlying certificate holders, we are actually doing two things. We are breaking the principle of bundling voting power for a particular part, and I am not convinced of its desirability. And we also reduce the relationship between shareholders and depository receipt holders. Certificate holders don't have direct voting rights right now, and you'd give them that because of this construction. As a result, you could also say from the right of ownership that you actually deprive the shareholder of something that you give to the certificate holder, without a reward. I think that's a complicated one, too. In the fact that you don't have a full share but a certificate, there is of course also some inclusion of what you have ever paid for it. I am therefore not in favour of the amendment along these two lines. I'd like to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u77	I understand the legal complexity. But from the point of view of ownership, these are the institutional investors. I think we've had them all over in preparation for this bill. So it's also the owners of real shares who warned us about this and asked us to see if we couldn't arrange this in any other way. So if it is the owners of large companies who see a problem here, why is that right of ownership so important to the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u78	Because there are also people who have a certificate, which is not a full share. I understand the issue of institutional investors. And I may also understand the wish of certain depository receipt holders, who say: give us more influence on that. But it is very important to deal with the situation, and I am simply not in favour of it. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another proposal from GroenLinks, which I wonder if will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u79	Is that the amendment to item No. 13?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u80	That is the amendment to item No. 10, which is about the material changes. Article 235 (1) of the Civil Code provides, for the SA, that the ava determines the remuneration policy. This is not the case in other countries. Sometimes it is there that determines it and submits it to the ava for approval. With us, the ava determines it. This means that, under current law, not only material changes, but in fact any change in remuneration policy must be adopted by the general assembly. So if you take that out now, you actually get a deterioration of the situation and no improvement. In the most mild form, one could say that not so much changes, but I would just like to explain where the amendment weakens the situation. The amendment could be interpreted in such a way that minor changes to the remuneration policy would not have to be submitted to the ava if you remove it, which is the case under the current rules. Now I see Mr Snels looking a little confused, because he had an example in his speech. I do not know the specific example of the wage increase which apparently did not need to be presented to the general assembly. I can imagine that there was a remuneration policy there that allowed for a certain wage increase. That policy was apparently formulated in such a way that that space was in it. I can imagine that an ava only agrees with a tighter framework. This can be the subject of discussion. But I do not know if this amendment would have helped in that particular case. So I would say here: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u81	I'm doing this at risk for my own life, Mr. Chairman. In my view, it is a question of whether a change in remuneration is a change in policy or in policy implementation and therefore does not need to be presented to the ava. In my view, what this amendment seeks to do is to propose material changes to remuneration, even if it can indeed be interpreted as an implementation of the current policy, as the Minister rightly says. So it's not about a hollowing out of it. If something is 15% in the plus, but coincidentally because of the wording of the board of the supervisory directors, therefore, the implementation of the policy is not seen as a change of policy. That feels like a trick. You wouldn't want to do that, would you? I think that's the intention. What does the Minister think of that intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u82	In any case, this amendment does not regulate this. The second is that there is a right to determine remuneration policy at the general meeting. That is why it is more comprehensive. So it's not about the exact reward. Of course, you can have a remuneration policy that is very specific and, so to speak, has very narrow margins for growth. I welcome the fact that this is the subject of discussion. That's what I'm supposed to do. But it also allows the ava to include wider frameworks. I'm just gonna say it very skeptical. An ava can, in a manner of speaking, at the suggestion of the Rvc, say that there is a lot of growth space. I might not be in favour of that, but that is the policy that is being formulated. This is advised by the organization. That is something that the Ava must finally approve, and it must do so within frameworks. There are a number of formal requirements in this directive. That's what it's gonna do. But it is also not boarded up in the sense that any substantial wage increase must be presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u83	And the Minister wouldn't want to shut that down, either? In fact, he says to an ava who is critical of these kinds of increases without seeing them come along: establish better rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u84	Make a better remuneration policy! And also be critical when you get a proposal from your vc. Wonder what that means exactly. Tell me if you think there's too much room in it. Put a ceiling in it. Arrange growth margins. If necessary, say: we think it was nice; this is just the top. Those possibilities all exist. But if you, as an ava, agree to a pay policy that leaves a lot of room, you can get these kinds of situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr. Snels just a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u86	Yeah, just for clarity. The Minister therefore supports the aim of the amendment. Right? No tricks should be used by the supervisory board so that they do not have to come to the shareholders' meeting and yet can give raises that have not been authorised. Right? That goal is supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u87	You're saying it's a trick the ava hasn't authorized. I do not know the specific case, but I can very well imagine that the Ava has given its consent by adopting a very broad and global remuneration policy. If you don't want exorbitant increases or you want maximized increases, it should be in your remuneration policy. The General Assembly can also demand this, because it has a right of approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u88	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u89	I think the problem is that these things are very difficult to capture. Even for the shareholders' meeting, it is difficult to define what the remuneration policy is and therefore to agree to it. That is exactly why it is being used by supervisory boards to circumvent that remuneration policy. A very specific example is that supervisory boards do not give part of the remuneration in shares, but in a fixed salary, with the only argument: at least we do not have to go to the shareholders' meeting. In fact, I think we should look at how we could give the shareholders' meeting a little more tools for that. I understand that the Minister may have difficulty with the way I proposed the amendment, but I would appreciate some room to see if we can define it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u90	This also requires critical shareholders. I fully understand the point and I also understand the irritation about remuneration policy. Maybe you have the idea that, even as a shareholder, you have agreed to policies that you thought were clear, but which still appear to be much more space than you had imagined at the front. As well as calling me to account in this Parliament and eventually agreeing to something, for example with a law or the implementation of a directive, shareholders can also be expected, if they have to agree to remuneration policies, to such a director and supervisory board just to see that through. What exactly does this mean? Isn't there a ceiling on monetary rewards? What about rewards in options or shares? Shouldn't we put a ceiling in there? I can imagine that a good balance will be found in a sensible interplay. Sometimes you need a little flexibility. Fine, I think a lot of shareholders will understand that. But not endless. This is a possibility, because it is ultimately the general assembly that determines this remuneration policy. They have the key in their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u91	We still have four amendments to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u92	Then I shall quickly go to the Futselaar amendment in part No. 15. That amendment concerns the removal of a number of exceptions, or at least the safeguards for them: the exception must be temporary and necessary and the policy must contain conditions for those exceptions. Now, of course, the shareholders are there themselves. After all, they define this policy. If you delete the exception measures now, the law does not contain anything about exceptions. That also brings with it a vulnerability. Where these exceptions are now listed exhaustively, they also offer guarantees. So you run the risk of achieving exactly the opposite, namely that there are no framed exceptions, but that there is a broader view. Subject to that, I would advise against the amendment. I can see Mr Futselaar rushing to the microphone. He actually wants the exact opposite. He actually wants you not to be able to make an exception at all. If he were to change or clarify his amendment, I do not think it would be more positive, precisely because I think it is wise that there should be any such derogation. You never know when a company will come in need or when you need an interim driver, who will temporarily pay you something else because of an exception. I think it would be wise for that possibility to exist. That is why I would like to discourage the amendment on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u93	Firstly, if the Minister's explanation is correct, I will amend the amendment. The aim is indeed to make no longer possible exceptions and not to remove the safeguards. On the second point, we really disagree. However, I would suggest that it might not be wise for a company in serious financial distress to say 'now we need to pay our drivers more' to say it bluntly. I do understand the idea that we want to build something of care, but I see the risk that "the continuity of the business is in danger" is being abused as an opportunity to circumvent it, because of course you can interpret it more broadly than those one or two possible cases where it is really necessary to bring in someone with a lot of money. Does the Minister see that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u94	No, I don't. That would have been the case if the safeguards as set out in the legislative proposal had been formulated in a very global and general way. But those are actually pretty clear. The exception must be temporary, so not permanent. Someone cannot be put on such a seat and then we say: we'll see when it ends. There's got to be a tight timeline. It must be necessary for the company's viability, so it is not a question of bringing in a regular person who is going to lead the company into another phase. No, it's up or down; survive or go bankrupt, so to speak. At least that's how I read it. And then it has to meet certain conditions. I think that is a very good guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u95	But still, Mr President, temporarily: the remuneration policy must be submitted to the shareholders' meeting every four years anyway. When it comes to the continuity of the company, the company itself, if I am right, must define under what conditions the exception should be used. Then you still have the interpretation discussion that you might get about this and that we now have, where the framework conditions are set by the company itself, eventually. These will be submitted to the shareholders' meeting, but still. You're gonna give us more space to avoid what we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u96	I also understand Mr Futselaar's suspicion. I don't know if it's justified. I am a little more confident that this is really an exception clause that can be invoked in case of emergency. And I also think it's just risky to tear it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u97	Clear. Can the Minister go short and pointy towards the second term? Mr Futselaar has one more thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u98	Just for the record, I would like to look at the text in order to make the objective clear, namely to eliminate the possibility of exceptions. Then there will be an amended amendment. I'm sure I can announce that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u99	That's what we're looking forward to. But then there should also be an opinion from the Minister if you come up with an amended amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u100	The Minister has already announced that the amended amendment will also receive a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yes, because I don't share that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u102	So whatever you adjust, it's always negative? You also have an ungrateful profession!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mr. Chairman. The story of my life, I'd almost say, but I'll never let that stop me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u104	Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u105	The amendment in part No. Mr Snels's 13 is about the formal requirements, things to be included in the remuneration policy. In this form I dissuade him, and that is not so much in the first or second part. With the first part you could say: that's already in it, a little superfluous, but well, it can't hurt. The second part is already in the Corporate Governance Code; that would be legally binding. Okay, I can go along with that. But I find the third part really problematic. The expectations of the company's relevant stakeholders and related companies, including employees, customers and "the society'. We're having a lot of discussions in this house about what society meant by something. You name it. The election results, for example. I find it almost unworkable for a vc and an ava to take into account such general concepts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u106	The strange thing is that we have regulated this legally in financial companies, both at European level and in our own laws and regulations, in banks and insurers. So why should that be different and even "unworkable" for other large companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u107	There may be some truth in what Mr Nijboer is now calling out of the microphone. It is good that it is not included in the Acts. Mr. Chairman. I am judging the amendment as it stands. When it comes to the parallel that you draw, perhaps I can come back to that briefly in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u108	Then I can give the Minister a move. I am literally taking the following out of the European directive. It is laid down in our law, but I deliberately use the European directive on prudential supervision. "In the preparation of such decisions, the remuneration committee' shall therefore "take account of the long-term interests of shareholders, investors and other stakeholders of the institution, as well as of the general interest'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u109	That is something other than 'the society', I say in the direction of Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u110	Sure. But this is even more general. I've just tried to define it more clearly. If that's the problem, I'd like to see if I can further define it. But that more general importance is important for remuneration policy. For example, the whole debate we are having on the pay gap is about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u111	Find the differences. But I'm gonna do that in space between the first and the second term. Then I'll come back to it in second term. It's a valid point. I'm just gonna get on with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u112	The amendment in part No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u113	The amendment in part No. 19. I can be brief about that: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u114	The amendment in part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u115	Then there is the amendment to item No. 20, by Mr Sneller and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) I'd advise against that. The or already has the right to a stand. I do not see exactly what an advisory right is adding instead of that right of opinion. Hence my judgment. Mr. Chairman. I look at my papers with a slanted eye and I think I have had all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u116	You passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u117	In order to receive the curl, I might be able to give a few very short answers to questions that have been asked. Mr Van Dam asked about the registers. How do they relate to each other? It's a fair question. The objectives of these registers are somewhat different. Where the UBO register and the central shareholder register are intended to prevent money laundering and fraud, the Directive's system focuses on the long-term involvement of shareholders. That's just another thing. There will be no additional register and there will be no overlap as the shareholder identification concerns shareholders of stock exchange companies and the register on other types of companies. The UBO register is also a public register. In any event, the identification of specific shareholders under this proposal shall not be made public, which shall be for the company only. Then there is the comparison with France by both Mr Futselaar and Mr Nijboer. I see their point. I will take it into account in the discussions I am engaged in with stakeholders on the greater modernisation of corporate law, which I am currently working on. Just as fast, not to shoot from the hip: I understand from the long-term perspective that it can pay to give it a higher value. At the same time, it also has disadvantages. The Dutch State has recently become a bit more shareholder of the shares in KLM. We have serious intentions, but if you look at the ratio of votes, there is a certain distortion in that, which you can ask yourself is justified. Moreover, in France, there are a lot of such tighter voting relationships in the state, in state-owned companies. It does not immediately promote the investment environment and mutual competitiveness. Anyway, I'll take it with me. I think it's a serious point. We may not have to copy it one-on-one. I understand the idea and I want to take a serious look at it. The same applies to diversity. I always say that as an entrepreneur you are incredibly stupid when you ignore half the talent in the Netherlands. So do something about it. I too am incredibly disturbed by people who have a big mouth about it, but do not put it into the boardrooms enough. I do have hesitation with an instrument like a quota. But we are about to evaluate the law, which does not now impose an obligation, but at least lays down a kind of directive. You have to apply it or explain why you deviate from it. I see that this is being trampled on all sides and I am critical of that. I do not have an immediate answer as to how this could be done differently or better, but I am somewhat hesitant when it comes to the instrument that has just been mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Then, in my view, I have come to the end of my first term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u118	Very good. Then we'll go to the second term. The participants have one third of the first-term speaking time. Mr Van Gent immediately waived his speaking time. A bit of harassment on my part always works. Mr Snels van GroenLinks. He's got three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u119	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister is, of course, right: this was an implementing law of a European directive and perhaps not the moment to have the big debate on corporate governance and the pay gap, and certainly not to settle it. At the same time, I believe that we need to move forward and amendments have been tabled by various groups. I also hope that the coalition will be open to consider how we can move forward. With regard to the amendment of the VVD and GroenLinks and three-quarters of the votes for rewards, I would like to make a promise from the Minister that we will monitor that for the next two or three years. I would also like us to have a report on this and monitor what is happening there in practice, so that we may be able to change the law in that case. Finally. I think this is a very big social debate. How do we reduce these pay gaps? I think the whole Chamber agrees on that. The rules of corporate governance that we lay down here in the Chamber play a major role in this. We have made a very small start today on how we should conduct that debate. I ask the Minister how we proceed with that. The Minister himself indicated that he is in the process of modernising company law; I did not know that. I imagine he's making a separate chapter of corporate governance aimed at reducing the pay gap. So what is the role of works council, board, supervisory board and shareholders? How does that work in practice? What lessons have we learned in recent years? Where are the problems? What lessons can we learn from the changes we're adding today? Then we can take that debate back a little deeper and more fundamental at a later date. I would appreciate it if the Minister could give an indication of how we could do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr President, I would like to make at least the point that, if we find anything about the diversity in the summit of companies, we should also look at the field of participants in this masculine debate. That always leads to humility. That's one point. A second remark is that I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Nijboer, perhaps on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u123	I made that point. The PvdA Group has been around for about twenty men and women. We also have a President-in-Office who has not been elected here either. So I don't feel addressed. It does mean you have men in your group, and I'm one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u124	Well, that's recorded again. Personal fact, someone's calling!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u125	I'm also wondering how I'm going to react to this, but maybe it's best not to respond to it. I also understand Mr Nijboer's comment. Furthermore, I can only say that we in our group will weigh things up. I say in particular in the direction of GroenLinks, D66 and the SP that it is not a committed matter. We're gonna put some things together and you're gonna notice how we got out of there on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u126	Cliffhanger's name is that. Mr Sneller of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to the Minister for the very substantive answer. I think he is right that we are laying down the rules of the game here and not the content or the outcome. Organising principles are always for me that we need to organize power and counterpower properly and to increase transparency. That is how we will look at the amendments, and I am also saying this in relation to Mr Van Dam. I had to think of a vote in the mid-1970s, which I was obviously not present with myself, at a D66 conference which voted by a majority in favour of the lifting of the party. But in the statutes it was stipulated that a two-thirds majority was needed, so I have some sympathy for the idea of building that kind of threshold. I shall also look at that amendment with that eye. Then there's my own amendment. I will look at the legal form with the legislative officials. The right of advice goes beyond the point of view. That is what forces the board to react in writing. I think that could be a useful addition to the shareholders' meeting in order to finally decide on the remuneration proposal. In this sense, I cannot fully follow the Minister's assessment of the substance. So I have an amendment that has been amended. Because I think it is important to be careful in this legislative process and also because of the balance sheet, I could imagine that we would vote on the amendments first and a week later on the legislative proposal. However, in view of the deadline for implementation, I would like to ask the Minister whether he believes that this would be a problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u128	What amendment are you going to amend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u129	My amendment was No. 20. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u130	Then you will come up with a modified version, I will record it, and we expect the Minister to give us an opinion. If the Minister has said something about the split vote, you must understand yourself with the Registry in order to deal with it on the agenda as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u131	I'll make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u132	Very good. Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The example of Mr Sneller from the 1970s almost makes me think that 50% plus 1 might also be a good method of finalising a vote, but we will not. There is, in principle, a good bill for this, which can be better and for which there are several proposals, including one of my party. We shall, of course, wait and see. Each party will undoubtedly make its own assessment. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that long-term shareholdership promotes the continuity and long-term strategy of a company and that in France this is facilitated by a double voting right for long-term shareholders;]] [[Whereas the Dutch economy benefits from companies with a high degree of continuity and a sound long-term strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to introduce a double voting right for long-term shareholders in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35058-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u135	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I made it look a little obvious in the first term. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is very positive about the set of amendments tabled by GroenLinks. It is a small-scale parliamentary work, so we will support it. I have a motion because it concerns me and because I don't think it's going fast enough. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch industry summit has not achieved the legal target for diversity for many years;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to introduce a legal quota,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35058-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u137	I also heard the Minister speak very well. He really thought it couldn't go on like this. I hope that the action will now be taken. We've been establishing it for so many years. It just needs to end sometime. It's not gonna happen by itself. Unfortunately, we have been able to observe that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u138	Very good. I'm gonna suspend for a minute and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u139	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr. Chairman. I'm walking away from the questions. Mr Snels asked how the monitoring worked out. I undertake to keep that up to date for the next three years, and I will inform the Chamber periodically. Then the review of the Corporate Governance Code and reducing the pay gap. Maybe I can go wider. I would like to look in that discussion and in the conversations I will have with stakeholders this summer to see how we can achieve responsible remuneration policies in the agreements and the rules of the game. Because I think that, on the one hand, with responsible remuneration policies, you do justice to the fact that that gap is emerging, but at the same time you take account of the fact that large companies, certainly listed companies, also have to play globally and therefore do what they need to do in order to remain attractive. I can take that into account, and I will report on this in the letter which will be coming your way in the second half of this year. The same applies to Mr Futselaar's question. 21... to provide feedback. Well, the motion asks for an investigation. It is unnecessary, by the way, because we have already done that research. What we are about to do is to discuss the increased voting rights with stakeholders this summer. I will also take this into account in the letter on the modernisation of company law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u141	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u142	So the motion in part No. 21 is unnecessary, because the investigation is already there. In my view, this is what I said in a letter in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u143	And so she's been dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u144	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u145	I admit it: I have this wallet for less than a month, so I haven't seen it all. Did we also receive the investigation as a chamber or did we only receive a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u146	There's heavy yes nodding in the banks. I understand that. Of course, it's stacks of paper that go your way as well. Moreover, we have some hesitations following that investigation, but we are going to discuss it and come back to it. Then Mr. Sneller. I would just like to finish the debate on the right of advice and the right of position in order to get it right. I'm not in favour of an opinion from the D.A., or no, that's my professional deformation on this point. This has not so much to do with the fact that I do not think they should give the general assembly an opinion or a position. It's almost a little semantic what's exactly the difference. The system of law governing works councils advises the board or must give its consent to decisions which the board intends to take and there is no formal relationship between the works council and the ava. The board is not about its own reward. The SVC makes a proposal and the Ava votes on it. So the whole idea of an advisory right just doesn't sit well legally. I can imagine you asking what exactly this position is about, whether it is a position that is written down or brought to the attention of the general assembly. I'd be happy to find out for you, and I'd like to keep an eye on how that works out in practice if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u147	I have one question. Mr Sneller's amendment, but I also had a little debate on it. Legal headlines it. The works council advises the management of the company. I have been visiting Commissioners a number of times recently, who talk to stakeholders and politicians, are also stakeholders on remuneration policy, and then I hear that works councils are actually not advised by corporate boards to talk to the supervisory board. Then, in my view, something goes wrong in the relationship between works council, management and supervisory board. When modernising company law, therefore, the exact relationship between works council and supervisory board could also be considered in order to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u148	I think that is a valid point. I'd be happy to take that, too. I'm taking the signal seriously, too. I also think it is unwise. Especially where, for example, a works council has a right of pre-emption for a specific commissioner in a structure NV, I think it is very good that the relevant Commissioner or a delegation from the supervisory board also occasionally just talk for a moment, because then you will also be told by a different line how the company is doing then only through the board. So I'd like to take that with me. My objection is not so much to the point as I hope Mr Snels will understand that I am opposed to an advisory right, but that it does not exactly fit in with the relationship of the or towards the ava, which it must establish. Mr. Chairman. The Nijboer motion in part No. 22 on the quota, I advise. That's not because I don't see the problem. I share that with him, but I will come back to that later on in the review of the Administrative and Supervisory Law, which includes the 30% directive. I advise her because I have very serious reservations about the instrument of the compulsory quota. Finally, I would like to give you credit for the details of Mr Snels' amendment to item No. 13. There are two things in that. One is content, namely that the Minister of Finance asks banks to describe the position of the company. That is quite different from what the amendment calls for, namely describing the expectations of third parties. But I also think that there is a difference between banks and other listed companies. Banks are special companies; you can't just drop them. This calls for an additional obligation on banks to take account of what they need to do in order to gain the trust of society. For other listed companies, I think that's a little different. Not that they have no responsibility at all towards society, but I think this is a very heavy prescription and a very heavy demand for it. So I stick to my opinion on the amendment in question. I have fewer objections to the first two points, but I have fewer objections to the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u149	Then there was Mr Sneller's suggestion, let me say, that we should vote separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u150	Yes, Mr President, it is good that you refer to that. May I appeal to you not to? This has to do with implementation speeds and also with us having to go across the road. We're gonna get into a real mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u151	The implementation is not until June, I say in defence of Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u152	Yes, but we also have a room on the other side that alternates and I don't know what the agenda looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u153	They can just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u154	I don't always know them across the street as soon as I do. But I had asked for the Minister's opinion, so I will not ask for it if this is his opinion. This requires extra care from us in the preparation of these amendments and, if we change any amendments, a written response from the Minister will also come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u155	I can, however, promise that we may have informal contact with each other and keep in mind that, in the run-up to the votes, we will give a kind of definitive confirmation of our opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u156	Yeah, but then the vote would be Tuesday. If there are any amendments that need to be amended and comments on them, then the seconds are ticking away, I just want to say. Thank you to the Minister for his presence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-8.u157	On Tuesday we shall be voting on the amendments, the two motions and the law, that is to say on the whole package. So far.
