ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 20 and 21 June 2019. Once again, I welcome the Prime Minister and as the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u2	Thank you, Mr President. This debate is taking place on the eve of the European summit on where we want to go with Europe over the next five years. I think it is appropriate to consider Europe's values at the beginning of the debate. What is this cooperation based on? It is about solidarity, peace, security and prosperity. In this context, I believe that we, as a Chamber, should also consider what has happened with our neighbours in Germany. There was a colleague of ours murdered, a colleague of the CDU. As we understand this week, this has been done for political reasons or is taken into account by the German justice system. Ties to neo-Nazis with the perpetrator or the suspected perpetrator have been proven. I would ask the Prime Minister to express our support and solidarity with Germany in the direction of his colleague and in the direction of the next of kin there and also to express firm support at that European Council that we will do all we can to fight against this kind of extremism and to ensure that we in Europe are protected from this kind of terror that is now directed against one of our colleagues. Mr. Chairman. Looking at what we have to do, it is important to realise that 70% of the people of Western Europe have not experienced a real rise in income since 2004, while the economy, which has experienced a crisis, has long been growing again. We see that the profits of companies are really back in order, we see the shareholders celebrating, we see the top men of the companies celebrating. It's often the same thing. It is important to do something about this if you want to understand and fight the discontent about Europe. The Prime Minister's plea in his other political capacity therefore requires a follow-up. This is not only a Dutch problem, but it plays a role throughout Western Europe and is partly the result of a policy, a culture, in Europe where these companies have always been facilitated to allow workers to compete on lower labour costs, not to seek that competition in value added but at as low a cost as possible. We must also press for measures and develop proposals at European level to ensure that a more real proportion of profits reach the working class in the Netherlands, in Europe. In this context, I find it disappointing that one important point is missing from the strategic agenda, whereas the European Commission had previously advocated putting it on the agenda. The whole social pillar, the whole need to protect workers in all respects, seems to have disappeared from the strategic agenda, while all other issues return. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to call for this item to be fully on the agenda; even more so, for concrete proposals to be made. We adopted the Ploumen motion in December 2017. We know from the Prime Minister that he relies on that agenda on himself. It is important to include this in the strategic agenda, because this is a little bridge to the nasty Brexit subject, which indeed resembles a feuilleton of an extremely bad television series "brexit" which is partly caused by dissatisfaction with labour migration. That discontent doesn't go away if we just say to the British, "What an idiot you're doing." It goes away if you make sure people are properly paid for their work and progress in Europe. With the election of a new main figure, however lamentable, there in that Brexit soap, I am afraid we must also take more and more account of a hard Brexit. The question to which we are now well prepared and to what extent we are protecting the Dutch working class, I would therefore like to give to the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The European elections, which had a higher turnout and a very diverse outcome, seem to have gone well in the Netherlands, but we are seeing more and more reports that efforts have been made by the Russian authorities or by other Russian actors to influence European voters. For example, there was a message that more than 240 million people are confronted with deliberately distributed fake news. I think that the time has come to send out a somewhat louder signal from Europe than just to talk about it with the tech companies. It is yet another attempt to interfere in a democratic process, the second largest democratic process we know in the world. We're gonna have to protect that. That's gonna take defense. That too is a European value that we must stand for. Finally, Mr President. Just for the next five years, I would like to call on the Cabinet to emphasise an agenda of protection, freedom and prosperity. This means that not only in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of Europe, people should go above multinationals. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if it were transferred from the festival halls to the meeting rooms where the decisions can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u3	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join with Mr Asscher's appeal, which seems to me to be a justified appeal. Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating a number of important issues, including appointments, climate, the Multiannual Financial Framework, the European budget, Russia and Brexit. These topics are on the agenda, among other things. Those are all big topics. I would also like to address the question of what the European Union stands for, just after the elections. As far as we are concerned, as far as D66 is concerned, the European Union stands for a Union that delivers results for its inhabitants, which can offer prosperity and protection to people and which tries to do so through cooperation and not through blockades and vetos. That calls for three well-functioning institutions. A European Parliament that truly represents the electorate. It calls for Member States working together in the European Council and it calls for a European Commission that makes laws and can also act effectively and efficiently to tackle the important, large, cross-border issues with the right person in the right place. First of all, with this European Parliament, it has shown during the elections that European democracy lives and thrives. A higher turnout, with also a broad, more varied pro-European centre. The Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats can no longer work together. They must work together with the Greens and they must work with the Liberals, who are now called Renew Europe, and I also say to Mr Mulder, who, of course, belongs to this beautiful family with me, and also to the Prime Minister. It is important that we also translate the election results into the way in which we do the crew of Europe's important positions. That is also stated in the European Treaty. So my first question to the Prime Minister is: I know that this is a delicate process, which he is far from being able to say everything about, and I will not ask him that either. How is he going to try to include the election results in the appointments? How does that work? Then that second institution I was talking about. That is the Council of Heads of Government. That is where the problem is that there is a great deal of division, blockades, vetoes, countries that are blocking a decision on their own, but also very little transparency and transparency. So let's try to make that a big point as the Netherlands and let's try not to always be the country that says no. We are now saying no to a higher EU budget. We say no to talks about Albania's accession. We say no to Bulgaria and Romania with regard to the Schengen area. We say no to an ambitious euro area budget. So we're kind of the country that's saying no to everything right now. I believe that at some point our finance minister was even called Dr. No. I do not know the nickname of our Prime Minister in Brussels; I hope that is not a similar title. But I do ask him: does he agree with D66 that the Council is blocked by minority positions and vetos? Secondly, what is the Netherlands going to do itself not to lose a position on those crucial files by always saying no? I think that this is a realistic story, which is also becoming a realistic danger. Finally, the European Commission, the third institution. That's the legislator. It now consists of 28 Commissioners and could be much more efficient if the Commission were smaller, with a number of competent Commissioners on the main themes, rather than 28 fragmented portfolios each filled by one country, as it is today. In the past, I have tabled a Chamberwide motion to reduce that Commission. This is one of the steps we need to take to get a Commission that is capable of acting, namely fewer Commissioners. So I am very curious; I have repeatedly asked for this in recent weeks, including the Foreign Minister in previous debates. What has been the commitment of the Netherlands to the Council with regard to this smaller Commission and what are the first results of that commitment? I really think it's an important point. It is also a point that fits in with the remarks made by the Prime Minister himself in passing when it comes to the role of Parliament, the role of the Commission. Then he always points out that that is all a lot of bureaucracy and hassle. Then I think: get over the bridge when it comes to making such a point when it comes to carrying out a Chamber-wide motion on a smaller Commission. I have a number of important items on the agenda. The climate. It is clear that D66 would like the Netherlands to stand within the European Union for an ambitious and green Europe. The commitment must be to be climate-neutral by 2050 and this must also be agreed. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he thinks this will work. Germany now seems to be moving in the right direction. Does the Prime Minister expect to succeed in getting on the road by 2050 and how does he see the 2030 targets? Is it feasible to also agree to increase those targets towards 2030? And what else will the cabinet do if it doesn't manage to make those appointments? I would also like to say a few words about the Multiannual Financial Framework. The European budget is, of course, extremely important. That's the budget for seven years. Money for important objectives that we as the European Union can use; for the protection of citizens, for example in the area of tackling migration and external border surveillance. But the negotiations are all tied up. So the question is as follows. The Netherlands has the commitment to stop paying. My question to the Prime Minister is how realistic that commitment is, when you see that here too most countries believe that a lot of money is needed to achieve some of these great objectives. So I understand that the Netherlands is constantly saying that it should be for less money, but my question is whether we should put ourselves in an isolated position, especially with regard to France and Germany. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Russia. Mr Asscher has already mentioned this in relation to disinformation. The European Commission has produced a report which shows that a large-scale attempt has indeed been made to influence voters by spreading all kinds of disinformation, misinformation and fake news. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the Netherlands is going to make a commitment to tackling the big platforms, the tech companies, which are often the stage for all that fake news. Is the European Commission or the European Council going to do something about this? I'd like to get a reaction to that. The agenda also includes the MH17. Tomorrow, the JIT will hold a press conference to bring forward new developments in the field of their research. I know that my question is ahead of something that is not yet known, but will the cabinet ask the European Council to support unanimously the new conclusions announced? That is an important point, I think. Finally, sectoral sanctions against Russia are likely to be extended. Is there any expectation that these sanctions will be extended, or is there any resistance from a particular angle that the cabinet can now say something about? Finally, Brexit. We have, of course, talked about Brexit very often here. We have had a breather for a while because of the delay until the end of October that has been granted. If I look at the situation through my eye hairs, the chances are that Boris Johnson will be the new Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. I therefore believe that we will find ourselves in a situation in which a chance of a deal or another agreement or another kind of postponement based on serious developments in the United Kingdom is getting smaller and smaller. So I just want to know from the Prime Minister to what extent the European Council is now preparing itself for the very likely fact that no one knows how things are going but the chances are still quite high for Boris Johnson to be elected as the new Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. And what will be the position of the European Council, and in particular of the Netherlands, to maintain the unanimity that has been achieved so far? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u5	I just heard Mr Verhoeven say that he has a problem with vetos, one of the few resources left in our hands as the Netherlands to block proposals. I wish we had more of them and we'd use them more often, but D66 has a problem with them. Mr Verhoeven mentioned examples of enlargement and of the budget. We also have foreign policy, of course. But what kind of veto do you really want to get rid of? Do you want to abolish them all? Can you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u6	I've made a lot of suggestions about that. If you have a European Council, it is also logical that there are vetoes on certain points, but there are also many vetoes that are constantly blocking one country. An example that has often been mentioned concerns the veto of foreign policy. I would like to avoid one country being able to ensure, for example, that sanctions against Russia are imposed. I would like to mention, for example, the situation in Poland and Hungary, where vetoes are used not to appeal to those countries. I do not think that is the right veto, so that is an example of a veto that I would like to get rid of. I am particularly concerned that if you are united in trying to find a solution to a major problem, for example migration, there are one or two countries that say 'we simply don't' and that it doesn't happen. Then you get an unworkable European Union. Over the past five years, that has become more and more manifest, so you cannot take another step forward. That's very bad for troubleshooting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u7	Let me come back to Mr Verhoeven's contribution. You mentioned the D66 problem with these vetos, but you specifically mentioned the areas of enlargement, the opening of accession negotiations, for example, but also the multiannual budget. The foreign policy you just mentioned did not mention you, but that veto I understand, as far as D66 is concerned, we can simply throw it in the trash. But what about our veto on the multiannual budget and our veto on opening accession negotiations, for example? Would you like to get rid of that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u8	Last week, I believe, at the General Affairs Council, it became clear that D66 is in favour of starting accession talks with Albania and northern Macedonia. So I'm not the one who says to the cabinet all the time: let's veto it. In any case, I am not in favour of vetoing the four subjects I mentioned. D66 has always said that a veto on fiscal instruments is conceivable. So in that area, I also accept that there is a veto. I am not the one who wants to use him, but I do respect that countries should be able to maintain a certain independent position. In the field of foreign policy, starting talks with North Macedonia and Albania, I would really not like to veto anything. On the one hand, because I am in favour of starting those conversations anyway; I made that very clear last week. But secondly also because of the broader point I made. If we say to everything that we should use our veto, that is a bit the position of your party and sometimes also of the SP and of other parties, that may be a pleasant way of debating here in this Chamber, but in the European Union and in the European Council it makes you an impossible partner who is no longer being listened to. And we really need to watch out for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u9	Finally, Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u10	Finally. I actually thought I was asking a rather simple question, but the answer shows that it hasn't been so twice. Mr Verhoeven referred to the tax veto, but I specifically asked if you would veto, for example, the opening of accession negotiations and the multiannual budget. So I am not talking about wagering, because it is quite clear to me that D66 does not want to use the vetos we have. But do you just want to get rid of it, as with the veto on foreign policy, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u11	I'll check it out for Mrs. Maeijer. I believe that we are in favour of a veto in the area of financial decision-making and not in the area of foreign decision-making, but I can find out so easily. I have had this question many times and we simply have a clear position on it, and that has not changed in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u12	Well, then you'll return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u13	I am happy to return to that with Mrs Maeijer in the second term. But I do think what I added to her point is important: you can be in favour of having a veto on certain subjects, but then you can still think that you should not want to use such a veto all the time. Well, that's a different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u14	D66 represents a very different type of European cooperation than the SP. We are getting ahead of ourselves, but I would like to point out something. He claims that it makes us less effective that we sometimes say: that goes too far for us, that we do not think in Dutch interest, because it is not supported by our people either. That's not true. In fact, we just had that investigated. That was an assignment from the Chamber. That may not make us empathetic, but it does make us effective. So what Mr Verhoeven is sketching here about doom images is not allowed to say no or to give you an alternative, otherwise you are no longer effective.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u15	How about it, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u16	Saying no once can work very well. I have just mentioned four dossiers where the Netherlands is among the few countries that make this a problem. We have a House of Representatives here that says regularly: we shouldn't do this; ho stop, no! If you do that once every five years and are also a partner with whom it is working well, who is constructive, who tries to form leading groups, who tries to take steps, that's fine. But we are now beginning to get into the danger zone, is my firm conviction. I am really trying to give a serious answer to your question and not to make it a caricature: we are now so often saying no in many different areas that at some point it is said 'there is the Netherlands again, they are going to say no'. Then you're just gonna put yourself out of business. I have often argued that we have a prime minister who can find anything, but he has been in the highest position in the Netherlands for nine years. And I should know, because I've been installed since June 17, 2010, now nine years and a day ago. I think that was the first day for me and then this Prime Minister was there too, so I've always only had this Prime Minister. Have I seen Balkenende? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u17	Now for the answer to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u18	I don't know where this is going, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u19	Where I am going is that this Prime Minister has a central position in the European field. He's one of the people being listened to, because he's been with us a long time. I have often argued that the Netherlands can take a position between France and Germany, not that Franco-German axis as an image of fear that Mrs Leijten always sketches, but precisely that triangle of the Netherlands-France-Germany with which you can really conclude new coalitions. What we are doing is always saying no, which means that we are not taking advantage of that pivotal position. I think that's a missed opportunity. I've said that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u20	I like roaring lyrics, robust and so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u21	Sure, it's known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u22	...but this is really wrong. It's demagogy: you can't say no, because then you're out of the game. That report we had made is from March. We're very effective. We are very clear on what we want to move forward and on what we are slowing down. The Netherlands is not ineffective at the moment, not even because we take clear positions on where we do not want to go any further and others do. That may be annoying for Mr Verhoeven, but it is simply not true that you are not effective when you are clear where you stand, where you want to go and where you do not want to go. Then you are a normal Member State and then you are not ineffective. It is wrong what you are arguing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u23	The Netherlands is one of the few countries that we have to be careful that we are not the only countries that are opposed to starting talks with Albania. The Netherlands is one of the few countries that we have to be careful that we are not the only ones who are opposed to an increase in the European budget in order to achieve more important objectives. The Netherlands is one of the few countries that continue to say no to accession to Schengen of Bulgaria and Romania. The Netherlands is one of the few countries that do not support an ambitious euro area budget. These are so four proposals in the past year that the Netherlands has been saying no, no, no to them all the time. Mrs Leijten, I heard you very well about your report. That's a report about the past period, but I'm looking forward to seeing how the Netherlands is putting itself out of play in the coming period. If you disagree, excellent, but it's just a question for me to the Prime Minister. He often goes there, he often sits at that table with the other 27 leaders. I'd like to know how he estimates that's going to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u24	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u25	In all these areas, we are working together with other countries again, because we say that things are moving too fast, with well-founded arguments each time. Mr Verhoeven wants to say that we are on our own. But if we go to Albania with France, if we go to the euro area and the multi-annual budget that has to go down with seven, eight, nine countries, then we will be a leading group there to influence decision-making. The leading group on climate, for example, welcomes Mr Verhoeven, but that is because it falls in his direction. We are actually saying no to what is happening now. I really think it's so bad that he's here saying you're out of line if you say no. It's just not from research. It's not from the Chamber's investigation. It is an instrument that we must preserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u26	You made your point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u27	I'm very sorry that Mrs Leijten thinks I'm bad. The only thing I have said is that I repeat once again that in a partnership it is true that if you are always the one who says 'let's not do this, let's not start on the brake, let's not start on the brake, let's wait for a while', at some point you become the one who is no longer asked what you think. Then you are no longer relevant, and that with someone sitting there now on behalf of the Netherlands who could play a motorcycle role and not the brake pad roller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u28	Mr. Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u29	In fact, I find it very tragic for this Prime Minister that he is always forced by the Chamber into a depression, when he could play a wonderful jarol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u30	Mr. Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u31	I feel sorry for this Prime Minister. I wanted to give him a heartbeat to say yes to things a little more often, so that we could all work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u32	You need a lot of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u33	I need a lot of words...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u34	No, you can't respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u35	... but they are words that are meant to help you get an answer, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u36	Mr. Drost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u37	I'm just waiting for Mr Verhoeven to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u38	Well, I wouldn't. He never gets out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u39	You're the boss; I know. What appealed to me in Mr Verhoeven's speech was how he began. He said: we should look for cooperation, not those blockades, not always say no. But I missed the comma that the other side of the story is that you can't always say yes. My question to Mr Verhoeven is where then for D66 in this case lies the border. We can take Albania as an example. Where's the border for D66? Surely there can be a no in the interests of the Netherlands or the interests of the European Union? That could always be the case, couldn't it, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u40	Sure. A nice question from Mr. Drost. In fact, I would have liked to ask Mrs Leijten: where are you going to go? Because Mrs Leijten talked about things she wants to move forward, but I'm sure she can't mention anything she wants to move forward on. Now Mr Drost asks me where I want to brake. Well, it's very clear: Turkey, that's where D66 clearly stepped on the brakes. Ukraine, from which the SP said it is being rammed into the European Union. D66 has always said that it will not be a Member of this House as far as we are concerned. We have clearly been on the brakes there. The countries that are now in the process of accession, Montenegro and Serbia, have all opened chapters, but only a few have closed. D66 looks very objectively at that measuring bar and if there are developments in those countries that make it impossible, D66 simply says no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u41	Mr. Drost...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u42	We know very well what it is to say no, but we also know what it is to say yes, and that was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u43	Clear answer, thank you to Mr Verhoeven. Let's zoom in on Albania, because that's on the table. We have seen here in the Netherlands in a number of debates in recent months that we are dealing, for example, with the export of crime from Albania to the Netherlands. Why doesn't D66 set a line there? Why does it not say: looking at the situation in Albania, should we not now choose to open these accession negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u44	I have been there, I think it was last year, with the committee, and at that time we absolutely saw that Albania is still far from meeting the European Union's standards. But that is precisely what the accession process is for with the opening of all these chapters. We are saying that, in recent weeks, I have always argued in all the debates that this is the portal that Albania is allowed to enter, as far as we are concerned, in order to start working towards the standards that Europe sets on the basis of the Copenhagen criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u46	The parties who say that they do not dare say: we do not even dare to give a country the chance to grow there in 30 years. I find this extremely cautious, very disappointing for those countries, and also not to offer the perspective needed in these geopolitical relations with countries such as China, Russia and Turkey, which are all lurking in the face of geopolitics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u47	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a good thing that Mr Asscher was thinking about the repulsive murder of Walter Lübcke. I like to agree with his words. There is a lot at stake at this European summit. I am, of course, curious to know who will be the new main players, the Presidents of the Commission and of the Council. I expect the Prime Minister to give me a hint of the veil, so I won't have to keep my curiosity for too long. A few conclusions can be drawn from the outcome of the European elections a month ago. First of all, the high turnout; colleagues have already talked about it. That is good news, because it seems that more and more European citizens are committed to expressing their views on the direction the European Union is taking. The elections have also led to new political relations. The majority of Social Democrats and Christian Democrats, who took for granted in the European Parliament for so long, no longer exists. Macron made the liberals bigger, with a pronounced pro-European story, and the greens scored in Germany and France, but also elsewhere, higher than ever. Thirdly, of course, there is the strong rise of the right-wing populists, Le Pen, Orbàn and Salvini. They won with programmes that are in many respects contrary to the values and ambitions for which the European Union was once established. That also calls for a programmed answer. That is why it is good that the European Council is discussing the strategic agenda this week. I'd like to dwell on that a little bit longer. The question with this strategic agenda is for my group whether it is green and social enough and whether the plans will make Europe stronger in a world that knows more and more incalculable friends and rivals. The proposed strategic agenda represents an economy that is strong and sustainable and offers protection, it is called. Mr Asscher also mentioned the social pillar. How far is the Prime Minister prepared to go in this area? For example, should there be country-by-country agreements on a minimum wage or a minimum standard of living? GroenLinks thinks so. What does the Cabinet think? For example, should market forces in the public sector be restricted? For example, the obligation to tender in the care sector creates a lot of unwanted bureaucracy and charges that are often too low to deliver quality. GroenLinks thinks so. What does the Cabinet think? Are we going to make European agreements on fair taxes? Are we going to make agreements that will put an end to competition between ourselves, which could lead to a race to the bottom? GroenLinks thinks so. The text of the strategic agenda refers to "ensuring fair and effective taxation." The G20 also recently advocated a minimum rate of tax on profits. What does the Cabinet think? It is precisely when we deepen European cooperation in the social field that we can show citizens the added value of cooperation and the protection promised. Migration also requires a European response. The cabinet also mentions this as one of the Dutch priorities that are reflected in the text. But what I saw of it in a leaked version, which will have been adjusted on a number of points, I found quite disappointing, to be honest. More than three years after the EU-Turkey deal, it is not possible to get out of the impasse. There are no new deals. There are no new similarities. The reception on the Greek islands is dramatically inadequate. Already 10,000 people have crossed from Turkey this year. There are hundreds of drowning deaths. Libya is threatening to send the refugees who have been stranded there to the sea. The approach to trafficking in human beings is stagnating. There does not seem to be any European coordinated return policy. How does the Prime Minister view this? What conclusions does he draw from this inability to overcome the current crisis and prepare the Union for the future? What applies to migration and to the social domain also applies to tackling the climate crisis. This can only be effective at European level. It is good that the Netherlands is committed to strengthening the reduction target by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050, I say on behalf of my group. Is there any movement in that? Can the objections of countries which hesitate because they do not know what this means in concrete terms be removed? I'd like to hear a response. As I said, the question is also whether the strategic agenda will make Europe stronger, in a world where we have more and more incalculable friends and rivals. I still see the European Union as a geopolitical dwarf. We do not want to be naive, but we are increasing Russia's geopolitical latitude by opening the door wide to Nord Stream 2. We do not want to be naive, but after Piraeus, who was forced to sell, the Italian ports for China are now also in the window. We do not want to be naïve, but if France and Germany are not devoid of self-interest, I can see that, of course, they are also in favour of a more vigorous European industrial policy, in which more room is carefully demanded for state aid and for the approval of mergers, then the Netherlands is firmly on the brakes. If that's wise, I'll ask the Prime Minister. Geopolitically speaking, the issue of the Western Balkans and the possible start of accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania is also a matter of concern. My group is in favour of this, also because we believe that these negotiations will influence the EU on the necessary democratisation and reform of the rule of law, on the stability of the region, and on the ambitions of others, think of Russia, Turkey and China, in order to gain influence in that region at the heart of the EU. How does the Prime Minister see that? There seems to be a great deal of support in the European Union for starting negotiations. Is there a real chance that both, North Macedonia and Albania, will meet the conditions for this in the course of the year? Last week, the Foreign Minister wrote to us a letter stating what those conditions might be. Is there any chance that this will be met? How does the Prime Minister see that? Finally, Mr President, a brief word on the rule of law. There is much to worry about: the freedom of the press, independent justice, freedom of organisation, an honest and transparent government. These are the values that are at the heart of what the EU was once established for. We now know that they are not self-evident within the EU either. The EU should step up its action against governments that are lecturing with it. The delay with the Article 7 procedure against Hungary is an example of this. How's it going? I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. But, and I'm gonna close with that, fortunately, there's also an optimistic story. In Slovakia, this weekend, a new president was installed, elected against the current, precisely because she turned against intolerance and arbitrariness. This inspires, and that is what my last sentence is calling for, Mr President, is the question of whether the European Union has sufficient instruments, resources and opportunities to support the positive movements for democracy in those countries where the rule of law is under pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u50	Mr. Chairman. Many people have long been looking forward to the coming summit saying "that will be important for the future of Europe." There would be major steps to be taken on many dossiers. We actually see that this does not happen on a lot of dossiers, because countries say "this is not good enough for us." As Mr Van Ojik said, we would like more progress to be made on common asylum policy. When it comes to climate, we are making the leg a little firmer. I will soon be on the eurozone, but there was a major breakthrough expected that has not been achieved. Indeed, because the Netherlands is critical, and rightly so as far as I am concerned. What makes me a little uncomfortable is that I, as a representative of the people, get the strategic agenda confidentially at nine minutes. Then, while I am sitting in the votes, I have to walk to a secret room and read what the Heads of Government have done. Why isn't that just public? Why should we not know what was negotiated between all those representatives of the Dutch Government, the German Government, the French Government and so on? What's on the table? Why can't we just know? Why does that have to be a secret? As far as I am concerned, as far as the SP is concerned, we are strongly committed to protecting the rule of law and democracy and the freedom of the press. I'm really worried that this isn't happening properly. We've seen murders on journalists. In Slovakia, this has indeed led to a voter revolt. That's the outcome now. There is a democratic correction. But if you look at how the correction takes place on Malta... A colleague from among us, Mr Pieter Omtzigt, must be there as a representative of the Council of Europe with street guards because he is investigating the murder and whether the government is actually organising a judicial process. I hope the Prime Minister wants to distance himself from Malta and his prime minister. It's about the dolls, the positions. The positions are divided among three political groups. It's obviously a puzzle, because you have to take into account where someone comes from, whether someone is a man or a woman, which is the political background. There have been a lot of dinners and lunches, phone calls and text messages, you keep them all, I would like to say, over the past few days about the positions. According to the reports, the three political groups, the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, are not yet out. What does the Prime Minister think, is a decision going to be taken at this summit? I don't know, because I'm not gonna see that strategic agenda and things like that when they're secret, but I'd like to know if he thinks there's going to be a decision. There is also a euro summit. Then it is about the euro area budget. That should not be called that anymore, because Wopke, our finance minister, has spent a night fighting to make sure that it is called otherwise. It is a common wallet where countries put money together and where countries can then call on to get their economies in order. The promise that the euro would bring the countries together, that the euro was good for the economies, has not been fulfilled. Then you'd say, "Watch where you're going." No, none of that, we're going to make it more political. So now we have that common pot of money, that common wallet. That is a true victory for the French. What exactly are the conditions for a country to be able to use this pot of money? The question also arises as to what happens if a country does not comply with those conditions. There is talk of co-financing when money comes out of that pot, but how high should it be? Is that €1 or is that a certain percentage? Who decides when a country no longer receives the money because it does not comply with the conditions? Is that the European Commission? Well, we've seen how she does politics. And then there's this. I see that the French welcome this outcome. They say that the first step has been taken and that it can only grow. Last week I voted in favour of a motion that says: when the Dutch conditions are not met in this euro area budget, that budgetary instrument or whatever it is called, the Netherlands chooses not to participate. That's the so-called opt-out. I can expect the Prime Minister to do the same in the follow-up. We will now continue to negotiate, negotiate and hope that there will be a final agreement in December. But the Netherlands doesn't participate if things go wrong, does it? Then there is the important preparation for the European Union's agenda and commitment to the climate summit in September. There is still a bit of a fuss about setting specific targets. I actually think that is understandable from some Member States because they simply have a different economy, with a different type of emissions. It is good that the Netherlands takes the lead in this. I read a leaked report from the European Commission that says: you can do that flight tax, but much more useful is a tax on kerosene within the European Union. This tax on kerosene reduces CO emissions by 11% and in the Netherlands by 19% and there is no damage to employment. That is far more fair than the introduction of a flight tax, I ask the Prime Minister. It doesn't make sense for us to pay taxes when we fill up our tank at the gas station when it doesn't get paid when those thousands of gallons get on a plane? It's about... I've looked it up... 1 billion gallons of kerosene a year. If you raised €0.50 on it, you already have a very nice fund that you can do a lot with. Is the Prime Minister prepared to bring this in? This may well be another breakthrough in a file that is reasonably stuck. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission would like the countries to move forward with the Multiannual Financial Framework. She would like this to be completed in the next six months. Does the Prime Minister think this is gonna work? I am missing on the annotated agenda, which is a public document that we are getting prepared for enlargement, which would be on the agenda because it is being discussed by the Foreign Ministers. Has it been possible to move away from tying Albania and northern Macedonia into the accession negotiations? Minister Blok said this was his commitment. Finally, Mr President. It is good that we do not want disinformation from foreign powers during elections or in other situations, and it is good that we are discussing this. But there has also been a huge advertising campaign in all Member States from the European Parliament and the European Commission to give a positive feeling about the European Union. Minister Blok said clearly: I am not waiting for that; I am not waiting for a European Parliament or a European Commission to promote participation in the Netherlands; that is our job. How does the Prime Minister see that? Because when it comes to disinformation, the European Commission has bought all kinds of platforms through Libelle and through De Speld to influence opinion. Shouldn't we be critical of that in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than a month ago, the European Heads of Government met for a summit on the future of the European Union. Afterwards a bombastic declaration was adopted in which once again the love for and loyalty to the European project was expressed. This time that happened with the signing of ten vows. Prime Minister Rutte agreed, on behalf of the Netherlands, to texts such as: "We will give ourselves the means to live up to our ambitions. We will give the Union the resources it needs to achieve its objectives and implement its policies." So, a month and a half ago, the funds needed were signed, while negotiations on the new multiannual budget of the European Union are still in full swing. You can almost hear the cash register ringing in Brussels. Because if you ask the European Commission, you know that more is always needed; 1,200 billion this time as much as possible. In the meantime, we already know who's going to pay for it. Mr. Chairman. It looks like one of those ten vows from Sibiu has become: we are going to draw the wallet. I think that the cheques are already being looked forward to, at least by the European Commission, in a discussion paper which it sent around for the upcoming summit, but which I would like to refer to the promises made in Sibiu. That does not seem to me to be a good starting point if you are still in the middle of the negotiations on the budget and therefore on the level of the Dutch contribution. My question is, therefore, what will the Prime Minister do at the forthcoming summit to ensure that the knife finally goes into that budget and that the Dutch contribution falls. What is the situation with regard to the debate on new own resources? Mr. Chairman. Next to the other budget: the euro area budget, which should not be called a euro area budget. What exactly is the situation with regard to the financing of this instrument? I read in the eurogroup's report: 'The characteristics of the instrument include that funding will be determined in the context of the MFF', i.e. the multiannual budget. It's a sentence that I think you can go a lot with. What does the Prime Minister actually mean by "in the context of the MFF"? Can I give him another example? In the context of the negotiations on the multiannual budget, there is also a discussion on the establishment of a European Peace Facility. That should be an instrument outside the multiannual budget, with its own pot of money of more than 10 billion for seven years. Member States finance this by an annual contribution, other than the contribution to the budget. Is that what is meant by "in the context of the MFF"? In the context of the budget negotiations, are we negotiating an instrument that we are going to finance separately? Is that the point? Mr. Chairman. The call for more power and more money is great in Brussels. The European Commission's ambitions are growing, and I am sure that will be no different with the next load of Commissioners. They use the strategic agenda, which sets out the priorities for EU bobos to deal with the next time. This strategic agenda, sometimes referred to as a European coalition agreement, will be adopted at the forthcoming summit. Of course, as we are used to, the piece is confidential again, and this agenda will be used to bring all kinds of proposals into the world in the years to come. My question is therefore whether the Prime Minister can rule out the possibility that this agenda will in any way allow the European Commission to draw more powers towards itself. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that it will also be part of that agenda that the knife will go into the budget? Less power, less money, fewer rules and fewer EU bobos should be our commitment as far as we are concerned, while we are still in the Union. Finally, Mr President. I don't need my ten minutes as you can see. Not only is the jobs carousel of the Binnenhof working overtime again, which also runs in Brussels at full speed. There are summits and dinners dedicated to the cow trade on the so coveted Brussels jobs, with that of President of the European Commission as the top prize. Of course, with the exception of those who have declared themselves a so-called Spitzenkandidat, one denies even more than the other being in the race for the top position with corresponding top salary. As far as we are concerned, we can miss the whole European Commission as a toothache. The fact that the European chairs dance disappears from the scene seems to me very nicely to be included. The Netherlands, we read, is looking for a capable person with qualities. I don't think that definition can be much more general either. But is the cabinet also looking at whether it will not be someone like Juncker who complains about the fact that the EU does not have its own plane and thinks it is normal to travel with a rented private jet? Perhaps the cabinet is also looking at whether it is not someone who is going to make a move against that wretched salary of €32,000 per month. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u53	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister and his colleagues are discussing the strategic agenda this week, i.e. the shopping list for the new European Commission. I will not go through all the topics on that list, but will confine myself to the strategic agenda, the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Euro Summit on Finance and the Climate. I'll start with that last one. Is my impression correct that in September there will be a hopelessly divided European delegation to the UN climate summit? There is now a piece without conclusions. "Synthesis or solution direction to bring an agreement on a long-term reduction target closer," we read in the annotated agenda. I read between the lines also with some criticism of the Romanian Presidency, which I also see in the text on the MFF. It says that the Presidency's text proposals 'do not reflect the different positions within the Council'. I ask the Prime Minister if this impression of criticism of the Romanian Presidency is correct. There is little positive to report on the MFF. We read that the field of forces is still very divided on almost all subjects. It is now clear that there will be no decisions this year. March 2020 is now mentioned in the corridors. Does the Prime Minister think that's feasible? Then the euro summit. We have the impression that last week the euro group and the Ecofin group were very hard hit. A number of things, such as the deposit guarantee scheme, have been postponed. However, it is clear that the Netherlands had to commit to a separate budget for the euro area. It's not gonna be a shock fund, but it's gonna be there. We are now inventing a different name for this, but it is clear that this euro area budget seems inevitable. Or does the prime minister like Tom Poes come up with another ruse to make something else out of it? On the other hand, why doesn't the cabinet just say that this is a fact? It's not that bad to admit your loss once in a while. Thanks to the persistent attitude of Minister Hoekstra, a number of picket poles have been placed. I refer to the opposition to an additional fund alongside the regular budget and to the plans for filling the fund. How does the Prime Minister himself assess the results of the consultation in the Eurogroup? Does he expect further steps to be taken by the end of this week? Or do the Heads of Government transfer this to another meeting and to the next meeting of the Finance Ministers? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the strategic agenda. The annotated agenda states that the cabinet broadly agrees with the concept. This, of course, leads to the question of what points the Prime Minister will argue for further tightening up this week. However, 50PLUS would like to draw attention to a matter which, in our opinion, should also be included on the strategic agenda, namely age discrimination. The document also addresses European values. In our view, equal treatment is one of the most important. At present, one fifth of the population in the European Union is 65 years of age or older. Luckily, in many countries in the Netherlands, to a lesser or lesser extent, this group is more or less written off. We are all aware of poignant examples of age discrimination in healthcare, in the financial world and in the social field. In July 2008, the European Commission adopted a Directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. The aim of this proposal is to apply the principle of equal treatment of persons, irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, outside the labour market. It creates a framework for the prohibition of discrimination on these grounds and sets the same minimum level of protection in the European Union for people who are discriminated against on those grounds. It therefore complements the Directive, which dates back to 2000, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, in matters of nature, employment, occupation or vocational training. The 2008 Directive has still not been adopted by the European Council, as some countries oppose it. That is why 50PLUS urges the Prime Minister to raise this issue this week in the discussion on the strategic agenda, with the aim of the Council expressing its opinion and making this an explicit starting point for policy throughout the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u55	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, the permanent Committee on European Affairs visited the European Commission, among others, in Brussels. We were welcomed on the floor of Commissioner Hahn, who is responsible for the European accession negotiations. We were in a conference room where there was a statement from Robert Schuman on the wall. That statement is still relevant to today's issues as well. Mr. Chairman. That quote was in three languages: French, German and English. I will do it in English and then try a Dutch translation. "Europe will not be made all at once, or according to a single plan. It will be built through concrete achievements that first create a de facto solidarity." And now in Dutch: Europe will not be built at once or according to a single plan. It will be built by tangible results that will first and foremost create genuine solidarity. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is still the attitude that European cooperation should have: to work within the Union to promote peace and solidarity and at the borders of the Union by promoting the important values of our rule of law and other achievements. It'll take time. And that's the time we have to take. To be honest, what is somewhat disappointing to us is the one-sided emphasis on the economic importance for the Netherlands. As if new opportunities for Dutch industry were the highest objective of any enlargement and the only criterion to be measured! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Should the starting point that we in Europe are striving for peace and prosperity between peoples not in itself be an argument for thinking about supporting non-member countries in Europe, for example in the Western Balkans? The Prime Minister spoke in the debate on the EU Summit in Sibiu about the five plus one priorities. "Plus one" represents the promotion of the rule of law, the basic condition for the functioning of the European Union. Will the Prime Minister raise this issue again at the European Summit? Will this be given a prominent place in the new strategic agenda? It does not seem so easy to choose the new President of the European Commission. I understand the Prime Minister can't say everything about it, but can he at least say something about the trial? Where are we now when it comes to filling in the outstanding European top posts? Can he say anything about his dinner with fellow prime ministers recently? Does he expect the Council to come up with names this week? The debate on how to fill these places is, if it is right, not independent of what we want to achieve with the EU. What will be the strategic agenda for the European Union in the coming years? We agree with the priorities set by the cabinet together with the Chamber. To what extent are there really major differences of opinion between the Member States, I ask the Prime Minister. Are there any Member States that are going to include items on this agenda that the Netherlands does not want? Which ones are they? Where are the challenges? What does the Netherlands do with that? Mr. Chairman. There are problems with the rule of law in too many countries within the Union. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? We often talk about Poland and Hungary, but there are also problems in Romania, Bulgaria and not least in Malta. In this context, I quote from the European Commission's communication on its enlargement policy: 'Our Union must be stronger, more solid and more efficient before it can be bigger'. In other words, the EU must do its homework before it can think about enlargement. We expect the Prime Minister to endorse this. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the European house needs to be in order, precisely in terms of the rule of law, before we could expand further. I would like a reflection from the Prime Minister on this point. The accession of the countries of the Western Balkans is therefore a step too far as the Christian Union is concerned. In what way does the Prime Minister propose that we continue to support these countries on their path towards greater democracy and a well-functioning rule of law? Mr. Chairman. Climate policy is also on the agenda. We also support the cabinet in its search for allies within the Union to be climate neutral by 2050 and to scale from 40% to 55% CO reduction by 2030. What is the prime minister's view of the possibility that this objective will be literally included in the strategic agenda? What are the progress made in the so-called breakaway on this point? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the euro. At the end of last week's eurogroup, the Spanish Finance Minister was somewhat upset with Minister Hoekstra, especially since the stabilisation of the economy had not been added to the BICC euro area facility. My group calls on the Prime Minister, like Minister Hoekstra, to keep the door firmly closed to our Southern European friends, both in terms of the objectives of this facility within the MFF and in terms of its size and criteria. I'd like a confirmation on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u57	Last week a motion from me was adopted saying: if the Dutch conditions are not met with that budgetary instrument or euro area budget, then the Netherlands must choose not to participate, the so-called opt-out. As far as you're concerned, is that still true? What we now have is, of course, not an end result of the instrument, but a next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u58	I shall leave that final conclusion to Mrs Leijten. Our problem with this discussion is the stabilisation facility, which may be added. That's off the table right now. As Minister Hoekstra once did, we have always seen the opt-out as a real option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u59	It is true that the stabilisation process is not in place at the moment, but there is also a task to complete the instrument further. There is still a discussion as to whether it should be in or out of the budget. There are a number of very clear Dutch conditions for such a budgetary instrument, for such a joint pot of money. I do not want that joint pot of money, but at least I believe that these conditions should be maintained. If this stabilisation is restored in the course of the debate, in the next six months or perhaps in the coming year, if it is placed outside the multiannual budget, or if the pot of money gets much bigger again, then is the opt-out still a real option for the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u60	I believe that the government has already promised this on a number of occasions. That started a few months ago in the Financial Times. We assume, but I did not ask the Prime Minister this question for nothing, that the stabilisation facility will not be inserted into BICC and that the criteria we have agreed on will apply. As far as we are concerned, this is also the final frontier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u61	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is important that the leaders meet for the European summit, because Europe is worth protecting, Madam President. Several colleagues before me Mr Asscher started talking about the murder of our fellow politician Lübcke. I too would like to express my condolences to his family and his relatives, but also to our fellow politicians, for this terrible murder. Of course, I agree with Mr Asscher's question to the Prime Minister. I would also like to say to the President: would it not be an idea that, as a parliament, we should encourage our fellow Members in Germany and let them know that we find it horrible and sympathize with them, as, of course, with the family? He's not the only politician who suffers from what he finds and says. We also see our fellow representative in the Netherlands, Murat Memis, a Dutch representative, a European representative, who seems to be being held because he retweeted tweets from a Dutchman, by someone on the outskirts of Europe who thinks he can decide for himself what is true and what is not true. Mrs Leijten also mentioned Pieter Omtzigt, who needs security if he is investigating a fellow country in Europe, Malta. Europe is worth protecting, Madam President. I understand very well that people are concerned about their future and that sometimes radical ideas seem attractive. I understand very well that sometimes people think that a country can do best on its own. But let us look at the past and learn from it. Then it is the Greek mythology that gives us the example of Europe and the bull. Like those radical ideas sometimes, you can see it as a very beautiful, fat, strong bull that is attractive to sit on top, but we know that eventually something else was behind that bull when we follow the mythology, namely a great power with bad ideas and a double agenda. Let us ensure that our Europe does not run away on the back of that bull of radicalism, jump into the sea, swim away and leave the rest of the family and friends orphaned. It's just here that it's very nice that we can exchange disagreements. This is also due to the peace in Europe. I couldn't do that for a long time, and I can do that here now. Let us therefore protect and exchange this, but also the countries within Europe. That is why I am pleased to be able to share this kind of disagreement with my colleagues and with the Prime Minister today. This applies, for example, to the summit on 20 and 21 June, which has a full agenda. The decisions are actually largely taken outside that meeting. For example, the leaders are discussing EMU the day after tomorrow, while the real debate on it took place in Ecofin last week. Specific recommendations are being discussed on Thursday, but Italy has already pointed the way to the criminal court. We cannot expect much progress for the MFF either. What is decided at this summit is the opening of accession negotiations with candidate countries and of top positions in the EU institutions, which must also be done by someone. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to forward the summit report to the Chamber before the start of the recess. I also have a number of other questions for the Prime Minister. First of all, on EMU and the MFF. During the last week, major steps have been taken in the reform of EMU. That is why first a compliment to the Cabinet and the Minister of Finance on that result. I do have a question about the euro area instrument for convergence and competitiveness, the so-called BICC. This is expected to be covered by the MFF and therefore non-euro countries are also entitled to do so. Can the Prime Minister tell us how this is going to work? What steps have been taken in the MFF negotiations? Is there any more clarity as to the extent to which agricultural and cohesion funds are being reformed? The backup of the resolution fund comes with the ESM, but the Lower House wanted a report with an independent test on risk reduction. We're not gonna share a risk without reducing the risks first. When can we expect that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u63	I actually have the same question to Mr Van Helvert that I had just before Mr Drost. Last week, the CDA supported a motion in which we gave the mandate to the Minister of Finance that if the Dutch conditions for the budgetary instrument and the euro area budget are violated, we will have the option of not participating, the so-called opt-out. Steps have now been taken, but what the instrument will look like will continue to be negotiated in the coming months. As far as you're concerned, do you still have that limit that the Chamber drew last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u64	We still support the motion that has been tabled. I understand that the conditions set by the Netherlands have also been met. I actually thought this was a good question, because I want to know. I would add the following question to the Prime Minister: is it true that all the conditions imposed by the Netherlands have been met? Then we'll both have the answer we'd like to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u65	Thank you for the clear answer: yes, we still support that. It seems now that the Dutch conditions are indeed met, but there are still so many open ends that I think we should stay very sharp, in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u66	And I share that with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u68	As far as Italy is concerned, can the Prime Minister tell us what progress has been made on the excessive debt procedure? Will the Prime Minister in the Council urge Italy to comply with the budgetary commitments? If Italy does not, the euro area, and Italy in particular, will suffer serious damage. See the emergency plan for Greece, which came out this week. The EU was ready to provide food aid for 2 million Greeks in the event of bankruptcy. That is why I would say to the Prime Minister: persevere, because if we do not enforce these rules, the consequences can be enormous. The CDA wants an ambitious European climate policy. We can do better together with Europe to reduce our CO emissions than each country does separately. As stated in the coalition agreement, the cabinet advocates a 55% CO reduction target in Europe by 2030. That is what we want to achieve together with Europe or with a leading group relevant to our country, so that we can adapt our own national goal upwards. Can the Prime Minister indicate when we know whether the European reduction target for 2030 is being increased by 40% or not, and whether such a relevant lead group could be created? In addition, it concerns the target for 2050. What will the EU present in this respect? Any word on that from the Prime Minister yet? Then there are the EU's positions. I would first like to remind you that the Prime Minister has been appointed European informant. Congratulations on that, on behalf of the Christian Democrats. We would like to ask whether the Prime Minister is there on behalf of the Netherlands or whether the Prime Minister is negotiating there on behalf of the Liberal Group in Europe, because that would make quite a difference. Can the Prime Minister report on what has been discussed with the other coordinators? What exactly is the assignment? What's he supposed to do? Is he going to present anything about that at the summit this week? Enlargement is subject to reservation on the Council's agenda. Last week, on behalf of the RAZ, we have a motion from Mr Omtzigt (21501-02, no. 2019) in order not to start accession negotiations with Albania. Media reports that after the Netherlands, more and more Member States are having problems opening negotiations as proposed by the European Commission. Can the Prime Minister present the force field in the Council on Albania? Will he also convey the position of the Netherlands in the Council? Finally. According to the Prime Minister, how does the start of the emergency braking procedure relate to the opening of calls? Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. Can the Prime Minister give us another update on the progress of the Netherlands' preparations for a no-dealbrexit? What is the situation, for example, with regard to the recruitment of staff and the establishment of the testing site for live animals? On 1 September we expect a full analysis of the dinners of the Netherlands, because the date of 31 October and Prime Minister Johnson.................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, Madam President. The Council may then consider specific foreign policy issues in line with developments. Does this mean that the Council will adopt a common position on Iran? How does our Prime Minister look at the evidence provided by the United States for Iran's involvement in the attack on oil tankers in the Gulf of Oman? Attacks on the merchant navy are unacceptable, so the cabinet stated. It's very important to find out who did what. The cabinet wants proof, reliable evidence. USCENTCOM released helicopter footage showing that the Iranian Revolutionary Guard was attached to an oil tanker's adhesive mines because they didn't want to explode. Does the Cabinet consider this evidence to be reliable, as it wished it to be? Is there any contact with the United States and the United Kingdom? Is the cabinet actively seeking contact? When does the Cabinet come up with an appreciation? After all, if Iran is going to be a subject discussed at the summit, I can imagine that very well, then it would be useful for the cabinet to know its position on this issue. Can the Prime Minister share them with us? Finally, Madam President. Perhaps the German toll could be discussed under the heading "specific issues according to developments," because the European Court of Justice has made a very clear ruling on this. Can the Prime Minister ask the German colleagues how they are going to implement this measure in a different way as soon as possible or whether they are not going to implement it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u69	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u70	Mr. Chairman. The EU is in the wind again. At least this is how it seems when you look at the many ambitious and strategic plans, proposals and objectives of the EU. On various subjects, the Netherlands wants to be in the leading group. This applies, for example, to the issue of climate. But Germany, our neighbor, chooses a much more sober attitude. This country does not commit itself to all kinds of years and percentages, but asks the right question: how can the European Union achieve climate neutrality? Is that even possible and if so, what is the best way? These are, of course, crucial questions that you have to ask in advance and not only afterwards. I call on the cabinet to take an example of this German sobriety. With regard to the SGP, subsidiarity and proportionality should be much more prominent in the Strategic Agenda 2019-2024. More attention should also be paid to the central role of the Member States. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he shares this view and, if so, what he will do about it. If it's that no, he won't do so much about it, I guess. Mr. Chairman. My group certainly considers this to be an issue in the negotiations on the new Presidency of the European Commission and the European Parliament. My question is therefore whether the cabinet is assessing whether these new leaders want to respect the powers of the Member States and whether, also in the light of the Brexit, they really have an eye for the genuine concerns of many European citizens about unnecessary interference from Brussels with home affairs. I'd like to have a reaction to that. Then there's the Multiannual Financial Framework. I wonder why this cabinet is so unclear about its concrete choices and commitment. And can this cabinet indicate in numbers what should be the overall maximum amount and what should the maximum percentage of the EU's gross national income? As far as the SGP Group is concerned, the Multiannual Financial Framework is not rising and we are sticking to 1% of gross national income. But I have a hard mind that this will actually be the situation. Not only because of the great ambitions expressed in the strategic agenda, but also because of the addition of all kinds of new and substantial elements to the Multiannual Financial Framework. My question is: how does this relate to the Dutch negotiating commitment or, put more directly, will the Netherlands agree to this? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the plans for a euro area budget, or the so-called shock fund. De Volkskrant recently analysed that finance ministers have limited the dream-building of the euro area to a modest chapel. My group does, however, see the concrete structure of a large extension, even though the walls have not yet been fully bricked up. Although the euro area President and the Commissioner were disappointed, this seems mainly to be a transparent attempt to pretend that there is little going on and at the same time to keep pressure on the kettle. That they speak of first and small steps that together have a greater effect and that the French speak of a eurozone budget and a mini-revolution, that says enough as far as we are concerned. My group therefore still has some pressing questions about the shock fund, the BICC. In short, they read as follows. How much money is allowed to go to this fund? Is this money going to come from new levies or from existing ones? What exactly are the strict conditions under which it may be carried out? What if BICC does get an explicit stabilisation target? That has been mentioned before. Finally, does the Prime Minister agree with the CPB's conclusion that such a shock fund is not necessary for the survival of the euro? Mr. Chairman. You understand, I look forward to the reaction of our Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u71	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u72	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to endorse what a number of colleagues have said about the murder of a German politician, Mr Lübcke, who is most likely inspired by political motives. That is a low point in democracy. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Council. I say it more often: it is about maintaining and strengthening in Europe what we have built together in terms of security and economic growth. To this end, the strategic agenda for the new European Commission set by the European Council also serves. If my group reads it correctly, then there are a number of Dutch priorities in it. These are solving the major cross-border problems that countries cannot solve themselves, such as climate, security and migration, boosting economic growth, such as completing the internal market, especially in the area of services, where there is still a great deal to be done, and enforcing rules. I think that is explicitly stated in the strategic agenda. The question is, of course, how to give hands and feet to that. Can the Prime Minister, our Prime Minister, say anything about how that's going to happen? On the strategic agenda, my question is: is the Netherlands satisfied or does the Prime Minister want to improve this further? What will the debate focus on in the next week? What are the outstanding points? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Then the top positions. Like my colleagues Mr Van Helvert and Mr Van Ojik, my group is very curious about what will happen next. The VVD Group shares the starting point of the best people in the good and important positions, but what is the state of play? Can the Prime Minister give us a hint of the veil? When can we expect the people to be appointed? Then there is the future of the euro area. Conclusions have been drawn up in the Eurogroup. Are they simply accepted in the coming week or are we still going to have a discussion in the European Council? As far as the VVD is concerned, it looks good. Good coalitions have been forged with the Hanzeliga. That shows that this is effective. I'll get to Brexit. Colleagues have already said: it may be useful, in view of the situation in the United Kingdom, to clean up the no-deal scenario and to inform the Chamber of the current state of preparations. A few months ago, there was a Van Ojik motion asking the cabinet to update us by department on the preparations for a no-dealbrexit. It would be good if the cabinet would do it again soon. We've seen a number of British prime ministers. Some say very loosely that they do not meet their obligations or that they are going to renegotiate. Is there a statement from the European Council that this is not the case, yet to try to teach some British Prime Ministers not all of them a sense of reality and to ensure that they leave the fairytale world? Finally, North Macedonia and Albania. I believe that Minister Blok of Foreign Affairs has just spoken about this in the General Affairs Council, which has just finished. Can the Prime Minister indicate the outcome of the General Affairs Council on Albania and northern Macedonia as regards the opening of accession negotiations? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u73	I also ask Mr Mulder of the VVD the question I asked the CDA and the Christian Union, because they...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u74	He knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u75	So you think that this motion has a say in the further process of negotiating that budget instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u77	Thank you. You can do that: short and powerful. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 6:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u78	We will continue the debate on the European Summit of 20 and 21 June 2019 and I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u79	Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin with the murder of German politician Lübcke. I share what Louis Asscher and the others have said about this, that we have taken note of it and are very shocked. Someone who did not avoid the debate; someone who was also missed in his own party and in German politics. As I understand it, the German police have apprehended a suspect. That is a good thing in itself. We must, of course, be careful to anticipate things, but I understand that there would be an extremist, possibly right-wing extremist motive behind it. Once again, I want to be careful, because we do not know all the details of the precise detection, but these are all signs that make it even more worrying, even though the fact is terrible in itself. I also see terrible reports going around on social media, which, I think, seem to all of us to be very distasteful. Thank you for having made that point, and I agree with that. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about a lot of subjects. I'm trying to cluster it a little bit, but it's gonna get a little mixed up. Quite avoidable is not. Mr Drost, just to get one, because more questions have been asked about this, asked how the five priorities and the rule of law are going. We actually have five priorities plus one: how are we going to ensure that the Commission delivers? That is, of course, the next point. With regard to the rule of law, I would like to refer to the cabinet response... Excuse me. As far as the functioning is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the reaction to the Van der Graaf report. It's expected to go to the Chamber later this month. When it comes to getting one's own house in order and making sure that the toolbox is also strengthened, I think we can take a positive approach to the whole issue. As far as the rule of law is concerned, the cabinet is indeed committed to giving this a prominent place in the strategic agenda. I also think that the current text provides for this, but I will check it again. In the same context, of course, Article 7, Hungary, a question from Mr Van Ojik. It is expected that the upcoming Finnish Presidency will soon organise the first hearing on Hungary, or that will be arranged. We will support that. It is now very important for the Council to assume its own responsibilities, following the adoption of the Sargentini report published last September. Then there was a question as to whether there were sufficient means to provide support when the rule of law was under pressure. This is primarily an obligation and responsibility of the Member State itself, but this may require support or some external pressure. That is why we are also in favour of a new EU fund for justice, rights and values. This has been proposed by the Commission in the context of the new MFF, including to support civil society in countries under pressure from the rule of law. There are also Council of Europe programmes that contribute to strengthening the rule of law in the Member States. In this context, there was also a question about the Omtzigt report on Malta. This is rightly given a lot of attention, also in the Netherlands. The report is an important contribution and Malta has been called upon to treat it seriously and to follow it up. Arrests were made some time ago. The investigation is still ongoing. The Commission has said that it will monitor the process carefully and is also prepared to take action if there are further grounds for doing so. We welcome this commitment and follow developments very closely. During his visit in January, Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, transferred the concerns that also live in the Netherlands. We will insist that the right steps are taken to find and bring to justice the suspects. I must say, however, that this is not on the agenda of this European Council. And it doesn't work that I can arrange all kinds of things there myself. It is not on the agenda, but that does not alter the fact that we do not want to continue to draw attention to this important issue. This is also in the knowledge that one of the colleagues here in the Chamber is of course very actively involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u80	We often talk about the rule of law, the situation in different European countries, countries that are members of the European Union, which we are concerned about. Does the Prime Minister recognise that independent media belong to a well-functioning rule of law and that journalists should not therefore be threatened in their existence when they publish or research the incumbent power?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u81	Completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u82	So how does the Prime Minister manage to shake hands with the Prime Minister of Malta, who has just been discussed by this journalist, or the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who has been given a trial by Transparency International? How's he handling that? Does he say anything about that? Is there a conversation, or does the etiquette turn out to be so that you don't talk about it at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u83	If the facts have been established beyond doubt, it will be discussed thoroughly. For example, I have spoken with Orbán on a number of occasions about the Sargentini report. But it goes one step at a time. That too is rule of law. Now that the Omtzigt report is here, I think it is very important that Malta should be able to take the steps and that the Commission should also take the initiative, and that I am not the judge now. Once it is clear what exactly is going on, as in the case of Hungary, we are absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u85	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the strategic agenda, including by Mr Mulder. It is, of course, now important that this agenda is not only set but also implemented. For this reason, the conclusions also state that implementation will be returned to in October. It is not yet known exactly how we are going to structure this discussion, but we will, of course, make sure that it is going well. Finland as the next president, the new Finnish Prime Minister, will play a major role in this. But it is also important that this should now become part of the Commission's work programme. This means that these priorities are given to the new President of the Commission, but also that we are going to work to ensure that this strategic agenda falls into a working method of the Commission that is no longer driven by pillarisation, that everyone has their own portfolio, but is shaped as much as possible by thematic work. It was once the idea, with the vice presidents, that much more thematic work would be done. One example is migration: you obviously want all the Commissioners involved to work together on this subject, as well as all the states working at the Council. So it's not just about content, it's about delivery. Europe, the European Commission, can still gain considerable strength in this respect, so that we actually do what we have intended. Mr Van Otterloo asked where we are going to call for a tightening-up. As you can see in the annotated agenda, we agree with the strategic agenda, which actually contains all the essential points of the state of the Union. We will certainly monitor very closely the implementation of the EU's governance: the rule of law, transparency and functioning of the institutions. We are pleased with what is in the agenda and the underlying documents. Climate is, of course, an example of an issue on which things must be ambitious. We would like an ambitious text, including the reference to mid-century 2050 as the moment of climate neutrality. If that were to work, it would be an issue where the strategic agenda could be adjusted. I will come back to the question of how the force field develops specifically at that point, but in itself I am satisfied with the piece. However, we need to look at this type of issue to see if it is possible to strengthen the issue even further by building coalitions. Then there is the anti-discrimination directive. We will continue to work for this directive in the coming period. The principle of equal treatment is, of course, one of the fundamental values of the Union. Given that a number of countries are obstructing a number of points, it is not yet possible to include this directive in the debate on the adoption of the strategic agenda. There will, of course, be another discussion later this week on fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens in the Union. They are also included in the strategic agenda. But I can assure Mr Van Otterloo that we will be working hard on this directive. This doesn't seem exactly the forum to do that, but it doesn't mean that this is a joint project of him and me. Then there was Mr Stoffer's question about subsidiarity and proportionality in the strategic agenda: are we going to do so? The Netherlands in Brussels called for a paragraph in the strategic agenda on the functioning of the Union. We are pleased in itself that there is one and that there is also explicit attention to these issues. Then there is the specific question as to whether these issues are also taken into account in the appointment of the new President. The strategic agenda sets priorities for the coming years. This is also the task we are now giving as a European Council, as a strategic directional body of the Union, to the new Commission. The issues of subsidiarity and proportionality are an integral part of this, so we have to relate to them. Mr Asscher's question on the social pillar. Social policy and the social pillar as such are, of course, explicitly included in the strategic agenda. The Netherlands supports that. It states that the European pillar of social rights must be implemented at Union and Member State level, taking into account the respective competences. A letter of 24 May from Minister Koolmees of Social Affairs on the future of the social dimension was also sent to the Chamber. It stated that the cabinet would assist the new Commission in applying the principles of the social pillar on the basis of the... I would add that we support the current division of responsibilities; we do not want to change them. The focus is on a number of important issues, including, of course, the future of work, but also themes for which the Netherlands has made itself strong under the previous cabinet and under this cabinet. The issues raised by Mr Asscher in his speech are also important. More specifically, these include upward socio-economic convergence, the future of work, decent labour mobility, coordination of social security and healthy and safe working conditions, with particular attention to companies operating in several Member States. Mr Verhoeven asked whether I agree that the Council has been blocked by minority vetos and how we are going to say no less. I didn't quite recognize that image. It is true that the Netherlands has views and that we think it is nice to see how much the Union is spending and that it should also be possible to make changes within the budget. We come very actively, I think, with our own proposals. Think of climate, where we are one of the leading countries, the internal market, migration, rule of law and transparency. In that respect, I do not recognize myself so much in that image. But indeed, that cooperation is not limitless. I think we should be honest that there are also parties in this Chamber such as D66 who, from their own convictions, would be for further European cooperation, in even more areas. That's not Cabinet policy. In this sense, I must, of course, promote cabinet policy. In the eurogroup too, we will be discussing the strengthening of the ESM and the BICC instrument, you can see that the Netherlands is always the country that is trying to get constructive knots out of the discussion. Then there is Mr Van Ojik's question on minimum wage. There are several Member States that have ambitions in this regard. There is no concrete proposal now. If that happens, we'll assess it on his merits. Wouter Koolmees, the Minister of Social Affairs, will do that. His letter of 24 May on the social dimension will then serve as a review framework. It contains a number of important principles, including the existing division of competences, but also the maintenance of existing agreements and a better link between social policy and other policies in the Union. Then there's market forces. The internal market with the four freedoms is, of course, an integral part of the functioning of the Union. They've never been absolute. There are exceptions in the Treaty, for example in the area of public health. As a cabinet, we are not arguing for the removal of all barriers. We will always have to balance national interests, the interests of the people, of course, and the interests of creating strong enterprises, where many people can work. That must always be a balance. Market forces are not an end in themselves. It is a method of ultimately getting the best distribution of money, means of production and people. Why is the strategic agenda not public and why was it sent to the Chamber so late was a question from Mrs Leijten. That's actually a discussion we have a lot of times. It is like the conclusions of the European Council, which are confidential until they are adopted. We would have liked the strategic agenda to be placed on the Delegates Portal so that you could have seen it for yourself. We have once again drawn attention to this and made a plea for it in Brussels. It is good to use if documents are not available at the Delegates Portal, which send confidentially to the Chamber. That happened today at noon. Today, in the General Affairs Council, Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, explicitly called for transparency and presented a non-paper on transparency. This is one of the topics to which the Netherlands is now actively trying to contribute, also encouraged by various parties in the Chamber; by Mr Omtzigt, but also by other parties, such as D66, GroenLinks and the SP. Many have, of course, drawn attention to this. One of the points in this paper is that Council documents should rather be proactively made public, with respect for the necessary space to think, as it is so beautifully called. Then there is Mrs Maeijer's question as to whether we can rule out the possibility of more powers going to Brussels with the strategic agenda. In my view, this strategic agenda does not transfer powers, but it is a very focused work agenda. The whole idea of the European Union until five years ago was a bit of a party committee looking for a party. That really stopped the previous Commission, the current Juncker Commission, and also the good work of the first Vice-President Timmermans. I also believe that this strategic agenda is further litigated in that tradition. Then appointments. As you know, the aim is to reach an agreement on appointments on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u86	Before you go to the appointments, Mr Van Ojik has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u87	Excuse me, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u88	I'm just trying to keep the tension on those appointments for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u89	But it doesn't quite work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u90	Don't you have to? I would like to ask about that strategic agenda. At least there's a version of it leaked, so we've all seen it. There were surprisingly concrete things about this in a number of respects, for example, that we should strive for fair taxation at European level or that we should pursue more industrial policy at European level. Does the Prime Minister recognise those points in the new version?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u91	So I can't say that in public here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u92	Maybe he can tell if he recognizes them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u93	No, I can't do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u94	If he recognizes them, but even if he doesn't recognize them, what does he think? Would that be good ideas for Europe to protect it, what it is about, hands and feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u95	So I cannot respond to that, but, of course, I can say something in a general sense: what if there were such a thing? There is a lot to say about industrial policy in itself. We must, of course, be careful not to fall into the trap of the Franco-German paper, which ultimately also wanted to place the European Commissioner for Competition under political control, partly because of the failed merger between two large German-French companies. I'd be against that. It is very important that we keep an independent Commissioner for Competition who is not under political scrutiny. So if you are pursuing industrial policy, it must be integral with all other aspects of internal market policy and the way in which we shape our external trade relations. If you look at it that way, in its integrality, there is much to say for industrial policy, but as part of that much broader agenda. Then the other subject you mentioned, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u96	Yes, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u97	The leaked version of the strategic agenda reminds me, for example, of the term "a fair taxation" that calls for fair taxation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u98	We only want unfair taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u99	... and to agree on this at European level. I assume that is what the strategic agenda is about. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he sees this as an important priority for the future European strategic agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u100	I can't say anything about what's in that strategic agenda, but in itself, no one can be against fair taxation. The only question is how far you go with coordination in the field of taxation. The Netherlands is not in favour of further coordination in the area of corporate taxation, but it is government policy to allow companies in general to pay taxes where they make the profits, and to ensure that there is fair taxation, preferably as much as possible in the OECD context, because it also provides a level playing field with the competing economies outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u101	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u102	Quite apart from what is in it and not, I think I can assume that what is in the strategic agenda is about what the European Union is going to do. So it is not about what Member States are going to do on their own or what the OECD is going to do, but it is an agenda for the European Union. That might say that we are in favour of fair taxation. At least that was in the version I saw. The question then is whether the Prime Minister sees a role for the European Union there. I would very much welcome that, by the way, but I do not hear him say that very explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u103	There is an ongoing debate in Europe on taxation. The Netherlands participates in this very constructively. You want to prevent too little tax being paid in countries or tax evasion. We don't want any of that. Everyone has to make a fair contribution. You also want companies to pay a fair tax and not end up experiencing a tax burden with huge profits, because they can all get rid of it between countries. That's what you're trying to prevent. One of the components is that you try to achieve that in the countries where turnover and profits are made, taxation also takes place. That is in itself a government policy in its own right. There is also cooperation in this area in Europe. But there are also thoughts that go much further, for example that you should go to a common basis for corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u105	The Netherlands would not be in favour of this because tax competition, provided it is not at the expense of fair taxation, in a union with very large Member States, which have inherent advantages because they are so large, is also a necessity for the smaller Member States to remain attractive to larger industrial companies, which in turn generate a lot of innovation and jobs. So you have to keep looking for a good balance in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u106	This is somewhat different from the new course we discussed this afternoon. Suddenly, it is again necessary for these large companies to gain an advantage through tax competition. Otherwise, as a country, we would be at an unacceptable risk. I would ask the Prime Minister to back that up for once, because it is being thrown out as if it were an idiotic idea. I think it is very bad for the Netherlands and very bad for employees that this tax competition goes on, that our big companies are paying too little, and that it is partly because of this that wages are under pressure. So maybe he can back up this so careless idea after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u107	Mr Asscher links a number of epitheta ornantia there, which I do not think I have used. But let's get back to the subject itself: in the end, you want the Netherlands to be a competitive country, that companies want to settle here too, without creating unfair tax advantages. If you as the Netherlands are not allowed to say that your corporate tax rate is one of the points on which you are competitive, we know that this is an important argument for companies to settle somewhere. A company has an inherent advantage in establishing itself in a large Member State because it involves a large home market with automatic sales guarantees. If such a company chooses to establish its head office in a smaller Member State, where the home market is much smaller, it will in principle run a certain risk, regardless of all adjectives. That is why, like the previous cabinet, this cabinet is not in favour of a common tax base in the area of Vpb. We are also opposed to a race to the bottom, so it must all be reasonable rates, but we are opposed to all going to the same corporate tax rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u108	Nor do I argue that everyone has the same corporate tax rate, but I think that reality is a different one from the Prime Minister's. It is no longer the case that, through this competition, countries have a strong position vis-à-vis those companies. It's the other way around. Those companies put pressure on countries, especially the smaller countries, and say, if your rate doesn't go down, I'm leaving. That has nothing to do with the home market. That's just the way real tax competition is now working out. It is precisely when we agree on a common minimum rate in Europe that we are no longer sensitive to the blackmail of these large companies. Then you can pay the teachers better with the proceeds and apply relief for employees. In that sense, I really think it's the old thinking if you think those companies are going to leave differently. We're not gonna let that blackmail us anymore. This did not apply to dividends tax, nor to corporation tax. You can protect yourself from that aspect by working together in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u109	I'm not so worried about companies leaving because of higher VPb rates. However, the dividend tax was a relevant factor. We are at risk there, but I do not believe that corporate tax is a reason for companies to withdraw. It is an important argument to come. Given the importance of the stock exchange in Amsterdam, as a large stock exchange in a smaller economy, for companies to settle here, companies that are also considering a stock exchange, that is a competitive advantage. If these companies don't come here anymore, it's gonna have an effect on that stock market. It could mean a spiral down if you don't do that wisely. The Netherlands is now committed to reducing the Vpb tariff. The cabinet intends to do so, both for the high and the low rate. But I think we are doing this to a very reasonable degree. Because if you compare that to what's happening in the rest of Europe, we don't do anything crazy. We are taking a number of years to do so. This will ensure that the Netherlands remains competitive in the longer term. On balance, the tax advantage is very limited, because it is also very often paid out of broadening the base. Thus, although the rate drops visibly, you also broaden the basis of Vpb-taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u110	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u111	The ship owner is a bit odd. The Prime Minister says here that we're doing the tax cut to attract companies. He says: we are not doing this to prevent existing companies from leaving, but to lure them here. At the same time, it links the same tax reduction to the wage developments of existing companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u112	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u113	Then he himself is hoisting the instruments together. There's no logic. My plea would be real: choose indeed that new course and stop being blackmailed by those big companies. The benefits that the Netherlands has with this are greatly overrated, and the disadvantages are very great, because we all pay them. Workers feel that. If you were to use Europe to protect employees from this shopping of the big companies, you would provide protection. This is also economically sensible, in the interests of the Netherlands. So it's really very old eighty-eighty-eighty VNO thinking that still sounds in the words of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u114	I cannot fully assess what Mr Asscher means by old and new thinking. If he means my speech at the VVD Congress, he was of course very specific about how to ensure that the largest companies also give serious salary increases and not a salary increase that is on average "at best" half of what the summit gets. That is the specific issue. This can also be linked to the question of how to improve purchasing power through income tax at the expense of corporation tax. That was my point at the VVD Congress. The discussion we are having now is about how to ensure that these companies remain competitive here. The Vpb tariff is relevant for bringing the company here. The low Vpb rate is also relevant to keep companies competitive here. I'm just not so afraid that if we don't, they're gonna leave tomorrow. It's quite a decision for a company to leave. But we know that the Vpb tariff is important for bringing companies here. Companies that are here can become more competitive if the Vpb tariff is reduced. It is true that some of it is paid for by broadening the basis. So we shouldn't exaggerate the effect either, but of course it has an effect. So this is much more nuanced than Mr Asscher suggests. Finally. His rhetoric about the big corporations and blackmailing you is not my idea. I really think it's his rhetoric to talk in those blackmail terms. I believe that these big companies are also trying to do the right thing, but I only think that they are failing in the Netherlands right now in the post-crisis wage growth. That was my argument last Saturday. But it is still very important for the Dutch economy that we have large companies here, with their employment and innovative capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u115	The last comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u116	That is the last point I should like to make on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u117	When we had the debate in October about not continuing to remove the dividend tax, the argument for lowering the Vpb was to reduce the risk of companies leaving as much as possible. Black and white. That was the big argument with which we spent 4 billion. Today the Prime Minister says: that is not so relevant, I am not so afraid of it. That makes you unbelievable. That is the biggest problem in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u118	The dividend tax was absolute priority number one: to ensure that companies do not leave. The risk was indeed that a number of large companies would leave. This is, of course, also an argument in the case of corporation tax, especially in conjunction with the failure to continue to remove the dividend tax. But if you look at the core of the question of how to attract companies in Europe, then the Vpb rate is very relevant for the smaller economies. It is also relevant to the question of how to hold companies, but it is especially important for the competitiveness of those companies in your own economy. The money from abolishing the dividend tax did not go to the companies either. It would have gone to the shareholders. Actually, we didn't do it for that. We did it to make sure that those companies had no argument to say: we are dealing with a difference in the treatment of dividend taxation between one tax jurisdiction and the other. You want to equalize that. That was the idea behind abolishing the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u119	In that last reply to Mr Asscher, the Prime Minister gives exactly the arguments for agreeing on which soil you at least place in the Vpb. He says that the abolition of the dividend tax was intended to eliminate the difference between countries which charge dividends and do not. If you say "at least we're all going to raise at least 15% or 20% of Vpb; you're always allowed to raise more, but you're not allowed to go into hiding there," you're actually creating this level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u120	Then you're talking about a minimum rate. You're not talking about an equal rate for everyone. At a minimum rate, there are other risks. I am not in favour of this, but I have to admit that the risks are of course less than if you were to plead for a single European tax rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u121	This is what GroenLinks, the SP and the Labour Party are arguing for. We are in favour of a minimum rate. But the Prime Minister saw the light of day from last Saturday: there is a social contract between companies and their employees. If things go well, they'll have to report on the profits. Isn't there such a thing as a social contract that everyone who benefits from Dutch provisions in the fields of education, care, public transport and culture pays taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u122	We have now entered into a debate on tax payments by large companies. I am happy to continue to do so, but I would like to prepare for that separately. I have now prepared myself for the debate before the European Council for the next two days, and the taxation of large companies is not on the agenda there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u123	I didn't necessarily want to go there, but the Prime Minister himself made that argument. He says he doesn't want to look at fair taxes or indicate what he thinks, because according to him, the location climate is only fiscally driven. Through these taxes, we must make sure that we are in a good place with these companies. That's exactly what he's using the taxes for. If I ask him if he doesn't think it's just part of the social contract that anyone who benefits from our society, from our education, from our care, from our road network, from our investments in houses, also pays taxes, then the Prime Minister can answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u124	I agree. You also have to pay taxes. I am not saying that the level of taxation is the only factor in choosing the location of a business. I didn't say that. We're talking about taxes now. That's a factor. Especially for companies coming here, it is often also a sort of last point that is checked. What does the Vpb tariff do? So it's a relevant point. Many companies I speak to are considering coming to the Netherlands. These companies come for a multitude of reasons. They are indeed coming because of our excellent education and our health care. The children can be relatively safe by bike to school. We have a very rich sports and cultural life. We have some beautiful urban centers, in east, west, north and south. These are all extremely attractive factors to settle in the Netherlands, but in the end such a CEO also has to pass the board of Commissioners who says: "Well, my friend, that's all interesting. We also think that this is important, as is the talent that lives in the Netherlands. But what about the tax rates?" They're looking at that, too. My point wasn't that it was the only argument. The discussion was about fair taxes. In itself I am in favour of that, but I wanted to make the nuance that you can then have a discussion about the exact measure. This debate is also being held between the more socialist-oriented politicians and the more liberal-oriented politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u125	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u126	I believe that the social contract means paying taxes because we know that it benefits the generations that live in our country and the solidarity that we organise. Liberals and socialists are certainly different about the extent to which you organise this solidarity, but we should have no difference of opinion about the fact that you pay taxes and that you also contribute to that society that you benefit from. To be honest, I think it's a little odd that you're trying to use tax competition as an argument not to argue for fair taxation in Europe. Actually, then, you're working on a misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u127	I did not say that at all. I don't know where Mrs Leijten gets that now. I just said that if there is fair taxation, there is still a debate on measure and what you mean by that. That's my point. So I don't recognize this last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u129	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the appointments. We're gonna try to get that around on Thursday, but I don't think that's a very good chance, because it's kind of stuck. I was also asked about my role in that. I am trying to help on the liberal side with my Belgian colleague. The prime ministers of Latvia and Croatia do so for the Christian Democratic family and the prime ministers of Spain and Portugal do so for the social democratic family. That is not what I am doing as Prime Minister of the Netherlands, but as a liberal and requested by the liberal family. Does the Dutch Government have a position in which to become President of the European Commission? No, not right now. We will take that position when a candidate is nominated or when there is a starting consensus on a candidate. The Dutch Government will then have to relate to this. At the moment that is not the case, so this is a rather special state-of-the-art position. But after speaking for three quarters of an hour in Question Time this afternoon as VVD leader, I have less and less problems with that. Hopefully it'll help solve this knot. I very much share the welcome of the higher turnout in the European elections. In the Netherlands, of course, attempts have been made, in line with the Buitenweg/Jetten motion, to increase turnout. That's what worked. I have no problem with the fact that the Commission and the European Parliament are also carrying out such an awareness-raising campaign. To be honest, I do not think that this is a good thing, because I do not have the impression that when the Commission says 'you have to vote', a lot of Dutch people think 'hi, now I'm running to the ballot box'. But in itself, I think it is very sensible to draw attention to the importance of elections, the unique nature of our democracy and the precise position of the European Parliament within it, which is, of course, quite a separate matter because it is not a normal parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u130	Was this the block about appointments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u131	On the part of the appointments, I had one left. I will make the point about the smaller Commission again, in line with the Verhoeven motion of 22 February 2018 and the Van Rooijen motion of 19 April 2017. I'll make that point again now. I just need to make sure I don't forget that. We are therefore putting it in the report. I can assure you that this is not going to work because it must be done unanimously. Many Member States are opposed to a smaller Commission. After making that point and carrying out the motions for resolutions, I shall in particular call for a better functioning Commission. I just talked about that. If it is not possible to do so with a smaller Commission, I simply do not see that happening. Finally, Mr Verhoeven's question as to whether the election results can also be translated into a crew that reflects them. Then I can read out the European Treaty, because that is clear about it. The result should be taken into account in the nomination of a candidate Commission President. In the end, it must also be able to count on a majority in the European Parliament. I think he should have 21 Member States and 65% of the votes in the European Council. So that is all provided for in the Treaty. But that's gonna be quite a chore. At the moment, when I see how this debate is going in Europe, that egg has not yet been laid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u132	I read in the annotated agenda that the Prime Minister is looking for a new President of the European Commission who is capable and has certain qualities. I asked, in the first place, whether the Prime Minister is also considering whether it is someone who is willing to do something about that miserable salary of over €30,000 a month and who is willing, for example, to agree not to move on a private jet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u133	We are absolutely watching for moderation, but we must not now ask the new President of the European Commission to change the whole of the Union's human resources policy. I also think that salaries are well-balanced, but I do not think that we should link this with the choice of a new President of the Commission. We have other places for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u134	I didn't quite understand what the Prime Minister said about the candidates. If I understood him correctly, he said: we have not yet taken a position on who that should be, because we are waiting for someone to come upstairs. Those are my words, and we have to relate to them. But I suppose the Prime Minister on behalf of the Netherlands is an active player in creating that consensus, right? Surely we are not the party that waits for consensus to be reached with others, anyone else, and then we have to relate to it? Or do I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u135	In most countries this is the case, because in most countries the governments there, like here, are heavily divided. The Dutch cabinet is, of course, the same. We have two liberal parties in the Dutch cabinet; they support Margrethe Vestager. We have a Christian Democratic party, which is for Manfred Weber. We also have Frans Timmermans. His party is not in the government, but it would of course be an honor if he were to become President of the Commission as a Dutch Member of the Commission. In this respect, it is not the case that the Dutch Government is currently on the same page. You don't have to, because there's no lecture. But as soon as there is a nomination, or if a candidate threatens to rise, the Netherlands will of course have to relate to that nomination. That's what we get out of as a cabinet, is my expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u136	Maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u137	In an indivisible short moment, we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u138	Maybe my knowledge of the procedures isn't enough, but that presentation has to come from somewhere, right? I assume that this nomination will then take place at some point in the European Council, in which the Netherlands is represented through this Prime Minister. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u139	Yes, but the expectation is, of course, that the President-in-Office of the European Council, Donald Tusk, will say at some point: everything so overlooking this could be a candidate who can get 21 countries and 65% of the votes behind him. That's a moment for me to wonder how we relate to that. Once again, that can be done very quickly; I think we will be out of it very quickly, when I look at the list that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u140	Good. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u141	Nevertheless, I can assume that the President of the European Council will also consult this Prime Minister and say: what do you think? And then the Prime Minister says: yes, we are divided?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u142	He hears that from most countries. Most countries with coalition governments will tell him that there is division, because coalition governments have parties from different political families.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u143	Yes... I can actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u144	I know you always calm down from a government that knows exactly what it wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u145	Yeah, I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u146	But a very few times in about four years there's a moment when we don't know it for a very conscious moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u147	I can still justify this answer, because I do understand it somewhere. But I also had another question. My question was about the smaller Commission. Very often, the Netherlands succeeds in forming coalitions on all kinds of positions that seem to be very important. Here the Prime Minister says that he would like to carry out this motion by saying: "We are here; just make a note. Fine, the note has been made, we've inserted it and the motion has been executed." Of course, that is not how a motivated government leader deals with such an important issue that is widely supported in the House of Representatives and on which he himself has once again put a hand in his pocket. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it not possible to see what coalitions are at this point? For example, there are always countries that are against meeting in Strasbourg. There are countries that don't want all kinds of things anymore. There must also be a number of countries here that say: let us see if a smaller Commission is one of the possibilities. Or is the Netherlands the only country here that wants this? Then we're the only ones again, aren't we, Mrs. Leijten? That would be worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u148	I have just heard from Mr Verhoeven of D66 that the Dutch Government should be a little more constructive and not take impossible positions. With that opinion and this encouragement in mind, I think it would be wise not to spend a great deal of time on a bleak issue when in Europe we are arguing that there should be a smaller Commission, because I expect a whole range of Member States not to support it. Then I can start looking for a coalition, but it has to have unanimity. If he is asking me again, in the context of constructive cooperation, if I really want to get into a conflict with the contribution of Mr Verhoeven of D66 in the first term, to delete Strasbourg as a meeting place for the European Parliament, then I really have a fight with everyone. Then I am so far away from the spirit of Mr Verhoeven's first-term contribution that I do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u149	Neither does Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u150	The Prime Minister's going a little crazy right now. He's starting to think so associatively that even I'm confused. Let us now forget the whole point of Strasbourg for a moment and get out of the discussion and go back to the point of the smaller Commission, because that is, of course, a point that the Prime Minister himself makes all the time. It is not a very effective Commission, with 28 Commissioners, all of whom have some sort of excuse position from their country. I can imagine that it is really possible for a number of countries to say: let's see if we can get to a stronger Commission with a number of strong Commissioners. Or is it serious that the Netherlands is one of the few countries that wants it to be, and that all the other countries are okay with us continuing to maneuver the Commission in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u151	I believe that a number of large Member States will fully agree with us. They just get a Commissioner, so they won't find it a problem. But I think that a whole series of smaller Member States are not enthusiastic about this idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u152	Yeah, yeah. Then finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u153	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u154	Then the strategic position of "the greatest of the small and the smallest of the big" will come up again. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u155	No, no, no. I sincerely say that I think we should be here in this Chamber... We're conviction politicians. We must, therefore, also table and adopt motions from our point of view. But it's not always possible to go for that without really getting everyone against you. If I estimate that a whole series of smaller Member States will say 'Beautiful, that parliament of yours, but we are not going to give up our Commissioner' and I have to build coalitions there and already know that it is really not working and I cannot do business in the meantime, for example in order to ensure that all these euro plans do not get out of hand, I think I am trying to distribute my energy wrongly. That's my point. So I agree with the motion, but she's just not a chance. Just as the lifting of Strasbourg does not stand a chance, it does not stand a chance. Besides, the PVV doesn't want it either, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u156	A further question to clarify the position of the Prime Minister as a negotiator. The Prime Minister was very clear that he does not do so as Prime Minister of the Netherlands but as a liberal. So it may well be, I understand, that the Prime Minister is supporting or campaigning or lobbying for the Liberal candidate when he negotiates in his spare time as a liberal in Brussels. If, for example, there is a candidate at some point, the cabinet has the wisdom of saying that it thinks the Christian Democratic candidate is the best. There will then be a conflict over the lobby as a liberal in leisure time and the role of Prime Minister in the service of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u157	Well, it's not a lobbyist. I'm a bomb squad, as the Belgians call it. They have mineworkers in their cabinet formations. So where we have informers and scouts, they still have a pre-stage and those are the deminers. So these are the six bombers trying to defuse the minefield. We are not yet lobbying; that is really only after that, if there is a proposal. Then I'll go back to the cabinet. When I look at the package of candidates who present themselves, my expectation is that we will be out of it soon, because of course you will be out of it immediately in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u158	So there can be a difference in interest. It's not my job to control the liberal bomber. It is my job to control the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, in his role. How can I, as a representative of the people, see whether Mr. Rutte is the deminer in his spare time, or whether the Prime Minister is working on behalf of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u159	In Dutch coalition relations, it is inevitable that the Prime Minister also has a party card. We can't take that away. I'm not a partyless official.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u160	I understand that well; we all have that here, of course. But you do have a role as Prime Minister of the Netherlands. We must check you there, but you now have a role to play in that same game as a deminer on behalf of the Liberals. As a representative of the people, I have to control the Prime Minister in that Brussels field; we all have to do that. We cannot see directly what role he is in, especially if at some point a conflict between these two roles can arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u161	To be honest, I'm not expecting that last one. Of course, I am watching that myself, because I am not in the mood for a conflict between roles. Of course, I have to keep an eye on that myself, but in the Hague political relations with coalition cabinets, where the Prime Minister also has a party card, it is inevitable that party interests are sometimes at stake. In this case, I do not see any tension there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u162	At this point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u163	Well, not about the fact that we have a liberal prime minister and that counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u164	No, about the appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u165	Mrs Leijten thinks of everything else, but not in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u166	Exactly. It is not expected that names will emerge at this summit. When is this expected by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u167	I don't rule out a miracle. It's possible we'll suddenly fall into each other's arms and get out of it on Thursday. I don't see it yet. I can't predict it. It'll be ready when it's done, as soon as possible. You would, of course, like to try to get out before the European Parliament elects its President. That happens from July 2nd. Then the new European Parliament comes together. So it is also possible that we will have an additional European Council before 2 July. Nothing's been decided about that, but it could be. It can go to October, too. It can also go to an additional European Council in August. And again, we could be out of it all of a sudden on Thursday. I've seen crazier things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u168	We are, of course, in a special situation where the European Commission will, in principle, remain in office until 1 November and a new European Commission will be installed. In the meantime, the European Council must reach an agreement and the European Parliament must agree to it. We have a Commissioner who will be installed in the European Parliament on 2 July. How does the Netherlands deal with the position of the Commissioner who will then be released?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u169	That is a decision that the Commissioner has yet to take. We are waiting for him to sit in Parliament or stay in the Commission. If he decides to go to Parliament, we as a cabinet should determine a position on that vacancy. We'll see about that. I'm not gonna answer that as-dan question right now. We have so much on the board as coalition and also as politics, all of us here, that I don't have the time or the luxury to do all kinds of like-dan questions right now. But if this happens and if Timmermans decides to go to Parliament, then we must relate to that decision. Then we'll see if we're gonna fill that position or not, and if you can do it in such a way that you don't have to pay pension obligations for the rest of that man or woman's life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u170	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u171	I'm just assuming that the government has a scenario for that for a long time. I would like us to be informed of the situation before 2 July, so that we know what we can do. I'm not just saying that because July 2nd is the date. I mean that in the end it is also clear what the Labour Party's list leader will do: is he going to sit in the European Parliament or not? Then the Prime Minister will also know what he can do to replace the Commission. I think it is right for us to know that, because that is the last partsession of this Chamber and we must be able to talk about it if we want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u172	However, I have nothing to do with the Labour Party's list leader before the European elections. I have to deal with, in this case, the man from the Netherlands who sits in a chair in the European Commission, without burden or back-spoke with the Netherlands. It is not the case that he is there as Dutch Commissioner. Of each country, of all passports in the European Union, there is someone in the European Commission, but it is there for the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u173	I think this point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u174	It may be that he decides to go to Parliament, and then we need to find something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u175	I think that this point has been sufficiently exchanged, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u176	I think it is important for us to be informed of the situation before 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u177	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u178	If there are any developments, we'll try to inform you, but we're not going to ask permission. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another subject: the CO reduction. I have already said something about this in the context of the strategic agenda. Quite a lot of Member States are in favour of tightening up the European reduction target for 2030. A smaller number of countries are very many, but at present there are four countries, Finland, Luxembourg, Sweden and the Netherlands, which want to bring the reduction to 55%. Then, of course, there is the issue of climate neutrality in 2050. Everyone says: you have to decide on that before you decide on 2030. This year, preferably already this week, we are trying to have a decision on climate-neutral by 2050. Whether that's going to work is really fragile. It is true that the Germans have now promised support for the 2050 target. That is a huge development. That was not the case at the beginning of May. We hope in June, and otherwise before the end of 2019. We expect a decision to be taken on the 2030 target by 2020. If we do not achieve 55%, then the coalition's coalition coalition agreement states what we are going to do: then we will try to find out with a leading group of countries whether it is possible to come to those 55% with a number of neighbouring countries. That's how the coalition agreement prescribes it for us. I can assure you from experience that this has been carefully written down. It is also possible, as I can say in the direction of Mr Stoffer. The Commission's proposal for the long-term climate strategy shows that it is possible. There are now 400 pages of analysis, in itself a blow to the climate. External research carried out by the Navigant Bureau on behalf of Eric Wiebes, Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, shows that the Commission has done a solid job. It is also not the case that there will be no emissions at all, but it will be neutralized by measures elsewhere. Then there is the question of the taxation of kerosene. We, the Netherlands, are in favour of increasing the burden on aviation to achieve climate objectives. We are open to proposals on fuel taxation, but this can only be done globally. This is also discussed at the air tax conference that the Netherlands is organising this week in The Hague. In doing so, we are trying to contribute to building a global coalition to work on that. Mr Van Ojik had a question about migration. I listened carefully to Mr Van Ojik's remarks in his first term. It is no secret, I think, that this issue has been dividing the European Union for a long time. However, there is broad recognition of the importance of getting out. Mr Van Ojik pointed out the poor conditions in Greece and Libya. I very much agree with him that things should improve there, especially in Greece. We have often talked about this here, and we are also trying to make our contribution to this. We are not ready for a new crisis, that too is clear. The new Commission must therefore take immediate priority in this respect, in particular with regard to the internal dimension. This is also about maintaining the importance of Schengen. But it is also about the external dimension: how do we work with third countries, including with a view to return? It is clear that everyone has to add water to the wine. As I said in the campaign for the European Commission on TV, but also as Prime Minister, Schengen is not without obligations. Membership of Schengen means that you also have your contribution to make to this issue. Mr Van Helvert asked about the EDP for Italy, the Excessive Deficit Procedure, the excessive deficit procedure. It has been concluded by the Commission that such a procedure is justified. A portal of the Ecofin Council supported that conclusion. It is now up to the Commission to make a formal proposal to the Council. Last autumn the Commission did not take that step because after adjustments to the Italian budget the Commission said that it no longer needed to do so. Well, the House of Representatives and the Cabinet didn't agree, I might add. Like Wobke Hoekstra, I remain committed to strict compliance and consistent enforcement of European budgetary rules. We will reiterate to the European Commission the importance of the fact that the conclusion that such an EDP, such an excessive deficit procedure, is justified, must also be followed up with its actual opening. This is not on the agenda for this European Council, but there is also a great deal going on in the margins, as Mr Van Helvert himself pointed out. That's where this will definitely be named. Then there's the Budget Instrument for Convergence and Competitiveness. A few things about that. I think that Wopke Hoekstra has been well negotiated; by the way, also about the ESM, but no questions have been asked about it. The DSA, the single-limb and the collective action claws are all well incorporated into the termsheet now, I think, so we're really making big strides there. At BICC nothing happens that we do not want, but a number of things have been pushed forward. Then we are talking in particular about funding. We just want that under the MFF. Everyone knows that. There is consensus among Member States that the instrument can in any case be financed from the regular MFF funds. A number of Member States are calling for additional funding. We're not in favour of that. Nor are we in favour of new taxes to finance the instrument, but no agreement has been reached on this. That's why it's been pushed through. All this must be done unanimously, and we know that the Netherlands will not change its position later this year. Member States must submit a coherent reform plan if they are to have access to this instrument. Member States which do not comply with budgetary rules have no right to funds. This is linked to the macro-conditionality that will apply to a number of MFF instruments. As you know, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission have an important role to play in determining whether Member States comply with budgetary rules. The official front portals of the eurogroup also discuss progress. The Eurogroup itself is discussing this. Moreover, reform and investment plans must be well organised, so that they really contribute to the strengthening of the economy. Mr Van Helvert asked a question about the backstop on the Resolution Fund. The amendment of the ESM Convention allows the ESM to act as a common back-up. Step two is actually entering the back capture by setting up a credit line from the ESM to the Single Resolution Fund. That happens at a later date. To this end, there must be a unanimous decision of the Board of Governors of the ESM, i.e. of all member countries. Politically, it is agreed that it will be introduced by the end of 2023, or rather if sufficient progress has been made on risk reduction. The first step for a political judgement will be the report of the institutions by 2020. Mr. Stoffer had concerns. He asked, "Can't it still have a stabilisation function?" Do you share the conclusion of the Central Planning Bureau that such a position is not necessary? We are opposed to such a stabilisation function. All of this requires unanimity, and it is not going to happen. The instrument focuses on reform and investment to promote competitiveness. We share the conclusion of the recent report by the Central Planning Office that it is not necessary for the survival of the Union, if only because there are all kinds of instruments in place in the Union to ensure that countries do not have to get into trouble. If they're gonna get in trouble, they'll know where to find them. Eventually, they'll have to sit on the blisters themselves if it doesn't go well. I would like to say to Mr Mulder that in this context I expect the euro summit to adopt the conclusions of the euro group and to support the commitments made. I say that to Mr Mulder. If there is any discussion about this, I will stick to the Dutch commitment. What exactly happened was Mr Van Helvert's question. If it is financed from the MFF, will it be accessible to those who are not members of the euro area? It has been agreed in the termsheet that the instrument will be accessible to the euro area countries and on a voluntary basis to the non-euro countries wishing to join EMU. That is the group of ERM II countries. As they do contribute to the MFF budget, the term sheet states that a specific arrangement will be made for non-euro area countries at the time of agreement on funding. In my opinion, I have answered the questions about ESM and the instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u179	Just to be safe, because the steps were very clear, but they came a little fast. Or maybe I didn't listen properly. When can we expect the risk reduction report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u180	There will be a report on risk reduction as part of the fact that the ESM will be backstopped on the Single Resolution Fund. That report is foreseen in 2020. That's what it says here, but I don't have a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u181	Please continue. Oh, no, a short question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u182	Not only me, but also Mr Stoffer and others have asked very specific questions. When can a country rely on this? Who's assessing progress? What does co-financing mean? Do I understand from this that we should discuss this with the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u183	Yeah, I really would, yeah. I am very pleased with the answer given to the question. Although, of course, I'd be armed to the teeth to do it myself. Mr. Chairman. There were some questions about the MFF. What are you going to do to put the knife in the MFK? And what about the new own resources? I believe that the Dutch commitment to the size of the Multiannual Financial Framework is well known. That's what we're gonna keep trying to do. The Commission's proposal for new own resources is still highly divided. We are not in favour of the introduction of new own resources. The passage in the Sibiu Declaration comes directly from Article 311 of the EU Working Convention. SP and 50PLUS asked whether the conclusion of these negotiations is feasible. I'm not going to speculate about that. The end result must be good. Speed isn't leading. The question was asked as to what is meant by the European Peace Facility outside the MFF. The European Peace Facility is indeed outside the EU budget. EU military missions are funded by it. Those may not be paid from the budget under the Treaty......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The MFF shall negotiate the size of that facility. That's part of the Negotiating Box. The Dutch position is that what can be financed within the budget should be as far as possible within the budget and that therefore the European Peace Facility should not have a wider scope than necessary. Shall I finish the dots on the MFK? I had a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u184	I'd love to. Then I will go to Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u185	What is the maximum bet of the Netherlands? We want it to remain sustainable. That's all the more urgent Brexit. We really want a budget of not 28 but 27, with modernisations, cuts and sharp choices. Member States must contribute according to capacity. Our commitment is to avoid an increase in payments due to Brexit. The Netherlands is committed to an MFF and own resources decision which together lead to a fair distribution of the burden. Mr Verhoeven says: it's all stuck, so how realistic is it that you're going to make your bet? If you modernise, you don't have to spend more. You can do that within the budgets, by looking at some of the expenditures that may not be very sensible anymore. There are huge amounts of money going to all kinds of things that we like to ask ourselves as the Netherlands: do you mind? There are thus other ways of achieving objectives. We do have a strong commitment, but so do other Member States, such as Germany and France. Many Member States have a very strong position. We are with the other net contributors and will continue to do so throughout the negotiation period. Finally, Mr Van Helvert asked for agricultural and cohesion funds on this point. The budgets or the distribution between Member States have not yet been negotiated. The content of the programmes is under discussion. EZK and LNV, the departments concerned, regularly inform the House of Representatives about where we stand. For example, the questions raised in this week's General Affairs Council (Cohesion) in writing have been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u186	For the forthcoming European budget for the MFF, the first priority for D66 is to shift resources for cohesion and agriculture to more contemporary resources that are good for a strong EU. But that is, of course, difficult, because many countries stick to the cohesion funds and agricultural funds. Then you're dealing with a second question. All kinds of new, very concrete objectives have also been put forward in the Sibiu agenda. They often return here. So these are major cross-border issues. The fact is that very few countries want to cut in the almost 70% of pots with some more old resources. Is it really possible to reach the commitment of the Netherlands not to increase it at all? I would like to take a look at that realistic answer, because that says something about the position that the Netherlands is in and how promising it is in the next 18 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u187	We are simply one of the nettoost payers, if not the netost payer of the European Union. I therefore also believe that we have a legitimate position in this regard. This will probably be a combination of limiting the ceiling and a form of a correction mechanism. There will have to be some kind of correction mechanism, because otherwise you will hardly get there. I think the stakes are feasible, but it will still be quite a lift.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u188	But what is the move to bring these cohesion and agricultural funds down? A lot of countries in the east, but also France and such countries, simply stick to that, while others say: the European Union must now take on a number of issues that are important. These two together eventually lead to a situation in which the Netherlands can both win. So my question is how meaningful, feasible, promising, smart that combination still is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u189	Then you should say that because Poland and other countries continue to receive billions from these cohesion funds, which is not necessarily wrong in advance, because it also has reasons, so because it does not modernise, let me say less politically, we are going to supplement it with more Dutch money, while we are already net.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u190	Then I'd rather turn it around. Then I think it's fine that we're hard in the net position, that we're pulling up with more net countries and working on the ceiling. I would also like to say that if you consider this ceiling to be so extremely important, then take the 70% of agricultural and cohesion funds in the seven-year budget of 1,000 billion. Well, how's that gonna work? Is it then possible for the Netherlands and the other net countries to get a crowbar between that door and ensure that the high budgets for cohesion and agriculture go down? That is an important point. That must be the main bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u191	Of course, we'll do anything. It does not make much sense to say a lot about it in a public Chamber meeting. Of course we'll do anything. We are trying to reduce those pots, which is very complicated for precisely the reasons that Mr Verhoeven mentions. In France, a village is only a village when there is a bakery. This means that there must also be customers of the bakery and so a lot of money goes to France's agricultural interests. As far as Eastern Europe is concerned, this applies to the cohesion funds. We all know the evergreens in the European Union. That's a bit of a part of it. However, I am not inclined to say, because it is difficult to modernise, that the Netherlands will have to supplement it. Neither does Mr Verhoeven. Moreover, I must of course abide by the government agreement, and that coalition agreement has not provided a dime for additional money for the European budget. The four negotiating parties did not provide for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u192	I mentioned the example of this European Peace Facility in my initial contribution as a link to the Eurogroup's report. It states that the so-called euro area budget will be discussed in the context of the MFF. I mentioned this peace facility as an example of an instrument which is also discussed in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual budget, but which is the proposal that this funding should be outside the same budget and that there should therefore be some kind of contribution from the Member States in order to be able to pay it. Can the Prime Minister exclude that, in the case of that euro area budget or that instrument for convergence and competition, the same kind of model is being chosen as for that peace facility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u193	That must be done under the MFF ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u194	That passage in the context of the negotiations on the MFF really excludes 100% that it will be such a construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u195	There's gonna be a pot of money of 1,000 billion or something more. In the Commission's proposal there is, I believe, 17 billion out of the 1,000 billion for that instrument, i.e. 2.5 billion per year. That is now the Commission's proposal. We are now looking at the total ceiling before saying yes to the 17 billion. By the way, this is not a bad spending of 17 billion, because it is then aimed at reforms. If we do it smartly, it can even in the future put a nice wedge in the whole approach to cohesion and agricultural funds at all by modernising them all more structuralally. If we shape it smartly, what I believe we are doing, it may also help us in this debate on modernising cohesion policy. Then Albania. A few Member States, like the Netherlands, believe that opening accession negotiations with Albania is premature. Moreover, the cabinet appreciates the steps that Albania has taken over the past year, but Albania really needs to step up its efforts to combat corruption and organised crime. So we do not think that accession negotiations with Albania can start now, but we do appreciate the steps that have been taken. A very large number of Member States support the start of accession negotiations with Albania, but a small number, including the Netherlands, do not. Moreover, today the Council decided not to open and postpone accession negotiations with both countries until October. I believe that this is also due to the fact that the German Parliament needs more time to prepare itself for that decision. And then it comes back. Mr Drost said that accession is also about promoting the values of the European Union and supporting other countries in its implementation. The importance is much wider than that it would only be in the interest of the Netherlands, he said. I agree. Enlargement is not an end in itself but a means of making the Union stronger. This is not an unnecessary luxury when you look at irregular migration, cross-border crime and ethnic tensions; all of these are issues for which positive steps can be taken, partly thanks to reforms in the accession process. In this sense, opening accession negotiations can also have positive effects. Once again, we really do not believe that Albania has yet reached this stage. So we remain committed to the accession process and will continue to work bilaterally to support countries, but that is not free. In the end, countries have to meet the conditions to be able to take steps. On 31 May the cabinet sent notification to the Commission on the emergency braking procedure for Albania. Whether or not it is set up depends on the Commission's investigation and on the positions of the other Member States. So that's all unclear. As far as North Macedonia is concerned, we have to note that many positive steps have been taken in the last year, but the negotiations can of course only start once the country has fulfilled all the conditions. An important step to be taken is the early adoption of legislation on the future status of the Special Prosecutor. Once again, both countries have decided today to move the debate forward. Then disinformation. For that I would like to refer you in particular to the debate you are having tomorrow on this subject with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Maybe I can say a few things about it. Combating disinformation is, of course, primarily a task of non-governmental actors, such as independent media, civil society, online platforms and scientists, and not of public authorities or EU institutions. I think it's important to report it here. Of course, if disinformation by state or state-related actors threatens political stability, economic stability or national security, a reaction by national governments is justified, but it must of course guarantee fundamental values, such as freedom of expression, at all times. A balance must therefore always be sought between these important quantities. Media wisdom and digital literacy are important here. I have said it before: an independent, well-functioning press, newspapers that are read and investigative journalism on television and radio are important to ensure that we all remain aware of what can go wrong nationally and internationally. What does the cabinet actually do against tech companies? That too will be on the agenda for tomorrow's debate with Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister of the Interior. I agree that online platforms play a role in this. It is a good thing that some tech companies have signed such a European code of conduct. The results must now become visible. The Commission monitors that. The content of this code of conduct is certainly not yet established. It is very conceivable that it will be extended. Then we've been asked about Iran. Mr Van Helvert asked for that. The reports of recent incidents in the Gulf of Oman are very worrying and show that the relations in the Gulf are very tense. The Netherlands does not have any independent information about the incidents, but is concerned because such actions against commercial ships and innocent seafarers are unacceptable. Then there is Mr Van Ojik's question about China. State aid and the purchase of European ports by Chinese state-owned companies are, of course, different things, so let's not just sweep it all together. State aid from Germany and France to national companies in response to this is not the right answer as far as I am concerned. That's what the cabinet's against. The Dutch China strategy has just been written to do better. In Brussels, we are holding the debate to make the European Union more resilient to the ambitions of countries as mentioned here. Last May, partly due to the commitment of the Netherlands at all levels, there was an equivalent summit between the European Union and China. I very much agree with Mr Van Ojik that Europe needs to project itself on the world stage, to be a major player. That also requires something from our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u196	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u197	On foreign policy, there was Mr Van Helvert's question about the fate of Murat Memis. We are very concerned about and concerned about his fate. He is a popular representative in the city council of Eindhoven. We are in close contact with the Turkish authorities at all levels. We also ask for attention to twenty other cases of Turkish Dutch people with an exit ban. There will also be a debate with the Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u198	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u199	There was a question about MH17 and foreign policy. I should actually like to refer to the report of the Foreign Affairs Council of 17 June. That report went to the Chamber today. Tomorrow there will be a meeting of the JIT, the Joint Investigation Team, and next of kin. The press will also be informed of the latest developments. Such a big announcement has been made twice before: in September 2016 about the weapons system used and last May, when it became known that the weapons system belonged to the Russian armed forces. Once again, there has been broad EU support for this issue in the Council of 17 June, i.e. yesterday. The Netherlands again expressed appreciation for this. Minister Blok said that the Netherlands will try again to see if this will lead to further additions to the conclusions of the European Council on Thursday and Friday. It's not known yet. Mr Verhoeven asked about the sanctions against Russia. Russia is on the agenda. Of course, politics decides to extend sanctions, but it is legally a matter for the Council. In principle, that always happens to the ambassadors, I thought, who make those decisions. It will therefore be a general discussion. However, it is not expected that a decision on extending sanctions will now be taken at this European Council. That is not on the agenda and has never been on the agenda. This is always done at Coreper level. Those were all foreign answers. I have a few other themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u200	Then Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u201	My question is about Iran, which the Prime Minister was concerned with. I asked that because it is also on the agenda that the Council may be considering specific foreign policy issues, as we say, depending on developments. It'll be about the angle. The German Government has announced today that the evidence submitted by the United States is very convincing. Do I understand now that the Dutch cabinet, unlike the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany, is still of the opinion that this is not yet convincing and reliable and that there is no position yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u202	No, what I said was that we don't have our own information yet. We must, of course, be very keen as the Netherlands on which we base ourselves, international law, because of all the debates in the Chamber. There is no independent information. I am not prepared to know more from the American angle. I'd have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u203	Yeah, because that's relevant. You're going to talk about it, of course. If you then see that both Germany and the United Kingdom and the United States say that this is a very convincing evidence, and the Dutch government is there and says "we don't know it yet; we don't have any information from our services yet," then you are out of the discussion at that point. I wonder what the position of the Dutch Government will be in the Council when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u204	We must always be careful with all the media reports we read about what, for example, the British would have said earlier. I also read things this weekend that I heard later that they weren't right. So we really have to rely on whatever the British say to us. I don't have any final information on that myself. All I know is that we don't have any independent information. We will, of course, be well prepared for Thursday and Friday. It's Tuesday now. If there is reason to take a more specific position, because we have more information, then of course we do, but at the moment that is not known to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u205	Are you going to a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u206	I'm gonna go to a roundup. The no-dealbrexit is something on which we continue to prepare, of course. The measures taken are and will be fully informed to the Chamber, but also to society. Recently, the Chamber received an update on a number of topics relating to contingency preparations. That was the letter of May 17th. A new letter is also in preparation, in line with the commitment made in the written consultation, in preparation for the informal European Council on 28 May. That was that informal council right after the election. A new letter is in preparation with an update of the preparations for a no-deal scenario, with a Cabinet Juice Appreciation of the Commission Communication of 12 June. He'll be out before the summer recess. Do I prepare for Boris Johnson? We don't know who will be the new Prime Minister of England, so we'll wait and see. Of course, that is a matter for British politics and the internal process in the Conservative Party at the moment, so we await that. You know our position: the withdrawal agreement is unnegotiable. That is what is there, but it is always possible to talk about the political declaration, but it is necessary to appoint from the British side what is the reason to talk about that political statement. At the moment, we have no indication that the British intend to change anything about the red lines. If there is another political event in Britain, then you have a new situation and we can look again at the political statement. So I have to say that a no-deal scenario is still very real. The only way to prevent this is to leave the European Union with a withdrawal agreement or, of course, no Brexit, but I have stopped dreaming on that last point. So we're gonna keep working hard on the preparations. The report of this European Council goes to the Chamber a few days after the European Council, so that is well before the recess of the Chamber, I say to Mr Van Helvert. Then there is the Romanian Presidency. I must say that I cannot quite criticise Mr Van Otterlo. In general, I must say that the Romanian Presidency has done a good job of completing as much legislative process as possible, especially for the exchange of the European Parliament. With the organisation of the summit in Sibiu, I believe President Johannis has given an extra boost to the formation of the strategic agenda. I must say I am personally very fond of Klaus Johannis, the President of Romania. Of course, there are also dossiers where we believe that the Romanian Presidency has chosen a less balanced approach from a Dutch perspective, for example when drawing up the negative box of the MFF. That is why the Foreign Minister, Stef Blok, has withdrawn from the General Affairs Council today. But yes, that's inevitable. Quite apart from that, there are, of course, legal developments in Romania which we are following very closely, but the President is not the problem there. That's what I think we agree on. That is a very righteous man who is trying to manage things in difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u207	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I'll see if there's a need. That's the case. Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly. It would be nice if the Prime Minister also paid attention in the European Council to the probable political murder that we saw in Germany, because it also requires a European response. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that German politician Walter Lübcke was probably murdered for political reasons and that violent extremism was increasing worldwide and also within the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself within the European Council to a common effort to counter that extremism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1460]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u209	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that work should pay enough;]] [[noting that wages have been falling short of corporate profits for decades;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up European and national proposals to ensure that companies' profits are sufficiently shared with employees and until then do not further reduce the tax on profits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1461]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have any motions. I do have an answer for Mrs Maeijer on the vetos. I looked it up in our 2019 election programme. It says that we want to retain the vetos on accession and a treaty amendment. So even more than I thought, and the financial things I mentioned are often subject to treaty changes, hence. The second election program I read for a while was that of the VVD. Not as good in quality, but also as good in reading, because what does it say? Halfway through the Commission, the VVD itself writes it and is therefore in favour of it, but knows at the same time that it is unopposed. Anyway, it's nice that the Prime Minister has at least been clear about that. Then I won't have to retable that motion. I hope, however, that we will continue to think about creative variants, such as the rotating Commissioner or countries that have a Commissioner together. But I will not go into that now. There are two other points on the central role of the Netherlands. The Prime Minister didn't recognize himself in the image of saying no very often and maybe isolate yourself. Fine. However, I believe that we should make the most of the position we have now, on the direction of the Franco-German axis, where many of the proposals that can be used by the Netherlands and lead us in the right direction. That must be possible and that possibility must be increased by not always taking a position in which you stand up to a number of movements that are possible in Europe. Sometimes this Chamber and this cabinet have a hand with that. This is mainly a danger at the MFF. When I heard the Prime Minister talking, I suddenly saw a huge risk. This cabinet keeps telling me to lower the ceiling. Then the ceiling goes down, but then many countries say that agriculture and cohesion must not be affected. So the ceiling goes down, but the two pots that are now going to receive the most money and which the Netherlands believes should be reformed remain in place. So what's the result? That we spend less money on the European Union and that the money that goes to the European Union goes to the wrong money. I would still like to hear from the Prime Minister how he is going to prevent that horror scenario, so that the reforms are not there, but he is going to show off the fact that the ceiling has been lowered. That is bad for all Dutch people, because they will not be given any measures in relation to migration, no external border surveillance and that kind of thing, because there will be no money left for that. I would like another response to that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u211	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Prime Minister, too. My point about geopolitics was that I think that the European Union, in general, looks too little at many different policy areas through geopolitical glasses. I refer to industrial policy, energy policy and a number of other things. The Prime Minister said you shouldn't throw them all together. Of course it is, but they are all examples of the same phenomenon. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the G20 calls for a minimum rate of profit tax;]] [[noting that the EU's strategic agenda aims at fair and effective taxation;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at the European Council to a minimum rate of profit tax applicable to all Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Asscher and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1462]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u213	Mr. Chairman. The second motion concerns support for organisations committed to the rule of law. The Prime Minister spoke about this in a very positive way. There are indeed proposals from the European Commission. This motion calls on the cabinet to make an active effort to ensure that this support is indeed extended. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas democracy and the rule of law are under pressure in several EU Member States;]] [[noting that there is often a lively pro-democratic civil society in these Member States;]] [[calls on the government to make efforts to increase and optimise the resources available to support civil society organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Drost. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1463]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u215	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I call Mrs Leijten on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u216	Mr. Chairman. Many issues on the agenda, including the opening of accession negotiations. I actually think it is right that it has been decided that this has been postponed. The European Commission has deliberately postponed its report on the countries and where they stand, because it thought that this would otherwise be in the hands of the populists in the elections. That's why she published it on May 29th. The Heads of Government, as well as all parliaments, had therefore to determine their position in 21 days. Well, that's not how it works. So I think it's wise. I assume the government will inform us if anything changes in their position. I asked the Prime Minister about the motion I tabled last week to opt-out if that budget instrument does not meet the Dutch conditions. I have heard from the parties I have interviewed, certainly from the CDA and certainly from the VVD, that they are still in favour of this, including in the further process. I am only giving this to the Prime Minister as a back-up, because I had asked him the question. When it comes to CO reduction, I asked him to present the interesting, leaked report from the European Commission on the taxation of kerosene. He did not reply, but I do have a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u217	I replied to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u218	Then I missed that. I apologize if it did. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission's report "Taxes in the Field of Aviation and their impact" calculated that a tax on kerosene within the European Union can and leads to a CO reduction of 11%, and even 19% in the Netherlands;]] [[also noted that the report also made it clear that the effects on employment were negligible;]] [[considers that introducing a tax on kerosene is fairer than a ticket tax;]] [[calls on the Government to promote this common approach when it comes to European ambitions to reduce CO emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1464]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u219	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his positive response to my first-term input on the anti-discrimination directive. That saves me a motion, so that's nice for later on in the vote. He described the commitment to finally applying the directive as a joint project between the Prime Minister and 50PLUS. We'll be happy to take that up with him. I also think it is important to ask whether this should remain an issue where a veto can be vetoed. I believe that both Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Maeijer will be pleased that there is no veto in this area, because I cannot imagine that discrimination should continue to be blocked from those countries which do not believe it for any reason. It is a pity that a smaller Commission, which my group, as the Prime Minister said, has also advocated... However, I think that we must make a strong effort to adapt the Commission's working methods to make them more efficient and, if I may say so, more targeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u220	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions. We welcome the continued attention given to the rule of law. Hence our name under Mr Van Ojik's motion to support civil society in those countries where it is necessary. Perhaps it is a good thing to mark the Prime Minister's statement that we are pleased that Minister Blok has today submitted the non-paper in the field of transparency, perhaps not with transparency as its objective, but to introduce transparency because those people have to be able to answer for what they are doing on behalf of all of us in Europe. We welcome and support the government's commitment to the forthcoming summit. Not always say no, as some parties in this Chamber may wish and not always say yes, as other parties sometimes point out, but rather a balanced contribution that is in the interests of the Netherlands and in the interests of peace and cooperation in Europe. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u222	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the Prime Minister's reply. The risk reduction report will come on Christmas 2020. It's a good thing we have a time. The CDA attaches great importance to this, especially since we should not share risks without this reduction. Then the risks must also be reduced. We're really waiting on that report. If we can do that before Christmas, we'll be delighted. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister said, presented a non-paper on transparency in the General Affairs Council. We like that very much. That's what we're very curious about. As far as I know, I haven't seen that non-paper. In the context of transparency, I would like to ask whether there is any. Or did I miss something? It's possible. Then I'd love to hear that, because then that's my shortcoming and I'm going to look it up very quickly. I had a specific question about the Brexit, the recruitment of staff and the establishment of a testing site for live animals. I don't know if there's an answer to that right away. Otherwise it may come in the course of the week, because we are very curious about the preparations that the Netherlands has to make for this. On Iran, the Prime Minister said: I am still preparing for it; it is only Tuesday. I think that is very important, because today Merkel said at a conference in Berlin, when she stood alongside the Ukrainian Prime Minister, that there is strong evidence that Iran is involved. Yesterday, the EU announced that the video presented by the United States was not enough, but when you see that the beacons are being changed, I think it is important that the Netherlands has a role in this, because the consequences can be very great for the tensions there. That goes for here, too. If in the course of the week the Prime Minister is still making progress in the preparation and he wants to share it with us, then I am recommending, and I think the whole Chamber. Then I would like to address you for a moment, Madam President. I also made a comment about the terrible murder of our fellow politician Lübcke. Then I said: is it perhaps an idea that we in the Chamber might let our colleagues know that we are shocked? Perhaps you could comment on that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u224	I'm definitely gonna do that. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u226	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. To see if we have understood the answers correctly, we have a few motions. On the basis of the opinion, we can see whether we have really understood the answers. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the new Presidency of the European Commission is currently under negotiation;]] [[calls on the Government to involve it in the determination of the suitability of a candidate president who is aware of the diversity between Member States and of the concerns of European citizens about unnecessary interference of "Brussels',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1465]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u228	The next one is about the shock fund. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Eurogroup has been asked to develop the characteristics of a fiscal instrument for convergence and competitiveness (BICC);]] [[noting that the Dutch Cabinet may see added value in the instrument if it does not receive an explicit stabilisation objective, funding takes place within the MFF and access to the instrument is subject to strict conditions;]] [[Whereas the BICC can ultimately perform a budgetary stabilisation function while it is unclear whether the conditions for access to the instrument are sufficiently strict;]] [[whereas the CPB does not consider such a shock fund necessary for the survival of the euro;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the BICC in the current circumstances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u230	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u231	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u232	Mr. Chairman. First a few questions and then the motions. In my contribution to the European Council, I will indeed name the terrible murder of Walter Lübcke. I very much agree with Mr Asscher on this point. I would like to touch briefly on the point made by Mr Verhoeven on the question of exerting influence in Europe. That's what we have to do. We are, of course, trying to build coalitions. In addition to the good contacts we have with the French and the Germans, we do so in all other ways, for example with the Scandinavian countries, the Baltic countries, Slovenia, Ireland and, of course, in the Benelux countries. That's what we're gonna do. On many subjects, given the time in which the debate takes place, I will not repeat them all. The Netherlands is taking really positive initiatives, but we also find all kinds of things. We are therefore not in favour of Macedonia's accession at the moment. We are not in favour of opening negotiations on the stabilisation instrument. A lot of Member States do, but a lot of Member States don't either. We are certainly not alone in that. Very often we want something and we come up with positive proposals, but if there is something that we don't want, it is the art to steer it in the direction that does work for us. I think that whole BICC is a good example of this. It has not been conceived here, but in the meantime there is a piece of work that meets all the Dutch demands and that can also be a potential crowbar for the way in which cohesion and structural funds are currently being worked. This brings me to a second point by Mr Verhoeven: the modernisation of the MFF. I agree with him. If it is only the ceiling, he is right, but in addition to lowering the ceiling, we really need to look for possibilities for correction mechanisms. If that becomes part of the final determination of the relative contributions of countries and the absolute amounts, then I think it can be both, but it will be fitting and measuring. I'm feeling strengthened. We're thinking the same thing about doing the best we can. When Mr Van Helvert mentioned that non-paper about transparency, I had to think about that wonderful scene from Yes, Prime Minister, where Sir Arnold and Sir Humphrey are in a club and Sir Humphrey asks Sir Arnold how the campaign for open government is doing. Sir Arnold's reaction is: I can't tell you anything about it, it's a top secret. In this case, fortunately, it is not. Let me take a look at this modern instrument: it is a Benelux paper, which was shared with the permanent Committee on European Affairs during a working visit to Brussels. I will ask that this be added to the General Affairs Council's report. I hear Mrs Leijten say that it has even been tweeted. There you go! Well, there goes your non-paper. Should developments occur in the Iran dossier, I think it is best for Stef Blok, the Foreign Minister, to provide further information on this. The point of living have is included in the letter in which the appreciation will come from the Commission's proposal on matters. That's before the summer recess. So we're gonna take that element with us. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. As far as I am concerned, 1460 is Chamber of Justice, but I must be able to read 'European Council' more broadly, namely as a Council. The European Council is not yet on the agenda. But if I may read that as a Council, it is also in line with Dutch policy. I would like to stress the word 'probably' in the text, 'probably killed for political reasons', because the final judgment is obviously up to the judge. So it is good in the motion, but once again, in the interpretation of the motion, I put the European Council in the middle of something: the European Council/Council. The motion in part No. 1461 I advise. You know that the cabinet has a different policy on parts. "Sharing companies sufficiently" is not something the cabinet is going to do. If Mr Asscher thought this would codify my speech on Saturday for the VVD festival... Of course, it was about something else. If the companies are not going to offer rápido higher salaries, we should consider whether this should not be corrected by reducing or reducing the Vpb. That is therefore a more specific political view. The motion in part No. 1462 I must advise against, because it is here that the minimum rate for profit tax... Perhaps I could refer to the part of the debate on this. The motion in part No. 1463 I give judgment Chamber. The Netherlands is in favour of this. The Commission has put forward a proposal for this, including in the context of the new MFF. In addition, there are funds to be set up in the framework of the negotiations, but that means more resources anyway. That's right, right? Yeah, it's about more resources. The motion piece No. 1464 I advise. The Netherlands has said it wants to investigate this idea, but it is really a global issue. It must also be addressed at that level. This week, that conference is going on. In the Netherlands, we are committed to a number of national measures. The motion in part No. 1465, by Mr Stoffer, I can give judgment Chamber, because what is there seems to me to be sensible. The motion in part No. 1466 I dissuade, because it really doesn't add up to what it says. That BICC is not going to perform a budgetary stabilisation function. That's just not right. We're not gonna do that. That's a commitment, too. It's a deal. There are term sheets et cetera. If it does happen, we are against it and we are not going to allow it any further. So it's not gonna happen. So this motion really doesn't add up. That's why I'm betraying her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u233	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-34.u234	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I thank the Prime Minister.
