ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the debate on the deaths of civilians in a Dutch air strike in Iraq in 2015. I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. I give the floor to Mrs Diks as the first speaker. She speaks for GroenLinks. Speaking time is exactly five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are no clean hands in war. Unfortunately, that turns out again now that we know that a Dutch operation in 2015 in Hawija in Iraq has killed more than 70 civilians. My heart goes out to the people who now have to miss their neighbor or loved one every day because of this deadly attack. Mr. Chairman. I'm not here to beat the soldiers involved. GroenLinks also assumes that the military in question acted in good faith on the basis of the best information available at the time, even if it turned out to have been wrong or incomplete afterwards. But if dozens of innocent citizens are killed by the action of the Dutch government, that must be accounted for. That didn't happen. And that was the reason for my group to want to talk about this very quickly in this Chamber today. Mr. Chairman. On 23 June 2015, former minister Hennis wrote to the Chamber in response to factual questions that, as far as she is aware, no civilian casualties had occurred in Dutch operations, while at that time her ministry had been aware of the civilian deaths for two weeks. A week later, she put a little scoop on top of that. In an AO on June 30, Minister Hennis stated that this was because the Netherlands was able to choose the targets very carefully by means of precision weapons. As a result, there was no question of what is always termed euphemistically "co-damage" by the Defense, but which in practice simply means civilian deaths. The times when we immediately bombed a whole neighborhood were over, Hennis argued, while that was exactly what had happened in Hawija: an entire neighborhood was wiped out. The minister knew that. After all, CENTCOM had indicated soon after the attack that it was likely to have resulted in civilian deaths. Mr. Chairman. How the hell is that possible? Can the Minister explain why her predecessor lied to the Chamber, even though she was personally briefed on 9 June about the civilian deaths? It is a legitimate policy that we want to protect soldiers in action well. After all, they do their work on behalf of us. It is therefore necessary for the Chamber to be able to make an informed assessment of a military effort. Information on civilian deaths in operations should therefore be brought out as soon as possible. However, it must be beyond doubt that the information that is brought out is also correct. Not only former Minister Hennis, but also the current Minister misinformed the Chamber, as she admitted in her letter yesterday. In the factual account of the Ministry, it is stated that this minister took note of the civilian deaths in this attack when she took office. It has chosen not to set the lie of Minister Hennis in the direction of the Chamber directly or at least to correct it. She has taken over this lie. She didn't come out with the truth until after the investigation of NOS and NRC. In addition, Minister Blok added some disinformation. He said on 19 December last year at EenVandaag that we do not know the exact numbers of civilian casualties in the bombing and that no information was withheld. Yet this is exactly what happened. Was the Foreign Minister even aware of the facts when he said this? According to the facts, the ministers most concerned were informed. I would think the Foreign Minister would certainly be covered by this. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks attaches great importance to the democratic system. That is why I am giving the Minister today the opportunity to explain why she chose not to correct or correct the lie of her predecessor and thereby take over this lie and thus persist in the incorrect provision of information to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In a war, civilian casualties can never be completely ruled out. That is why it is so important that we learn from military efforts and take responsibility for them. This is important in order to reduce the number of civilian deaths as much as possible in the future. We do not take that responsibility by saying to the people who have lost their family, friends and NGOs: here you have an OS jar with which we pay a new school or something like that; good luck further. That'd be a goddamn gutter. Victims must be compensated if the Netherlands is responsible. Even the United States does that. It seems that the Netherlands is responsible, but does not feel responsible. It's two-and-a-half. If we're responsible, how can the Minister reject liability? Last night at Nieuwsuur, the Minister indicated that he would take responsibility for misinformation of the Chamber. The fact story clearly shows that this information was also immeasurable and incomplete. This has damaged the confidence of the Chamber. They're hard conclusions, but I'm not getting to anything else for a while. That is why I have two more questions. What has prompted the Minister not to inform the Chamber of the real situation with all the information she had at her disposal? And does the Minister think that she can still be a credible minister with such a deep scratch in her credibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u4	It was not the minister, but the NOS and the NRC who brought us the news two weeks ago that the Netherlands bombed Hawija, Iraq, in June 2015, and that at least 70 civilians were killed. Forced by journalists and other critical followers, the Minister confirmed this yesterday, four and a half years later. Uncomfortablely, the minister tried to hide behind lies from her predecessor, behind the pilots and behind terms such as "operational and national security." But the facts speak for themselves. In 2015, a double lie was told to the House of Representatives. Although shortly after the bombing it was clear that there was a lot of collateral damage, as it is called, and the House of Representatives had asked explicit questions, we were not allowed to know the truth in 2016 and 2017 either. We were not allowed to do that after November 2017, when the minister was told that 70 people died. In 2018, after explicit questions about Hawija, we received a false answer from the Minister. Because what else should you call it if 70 civilian deaths have occurred and the minister doesn't go beyond "most likely," knowing that 70 people have been killed? There were "most likely" civilian deaths: that seems to me to be the understatement of the year. Only now, at the end of 2019, after press revelations and efforts by organisations such as Airwars, is the Minister prepared to open two incidents involving at least 74 deaths. Mr. Chairman. The Minister believes that nothing has gone wrong in itself. That's what she reported to Nieuwsuur yesterday. On Sunday she was even angry at WNL about the fact that we ask for openness, that we want to know the truth. Then I wonder: is this minister all right? This has gone horribly wrong, hasn't it? We demand openness. We want the truth. We don't want secret warfare. Something else doesn't fit a democracy. I find it unacceptable that the House of Representatives has been lied to. I have to say that the Minister is still very resourceful with information. The Netherlands, our country, has deployed over 2,100 weapons. Is the Minister prepared to release information on dates, locations and times now? Will it also investigate why the coalition only recognizes a fraction of the civilian casualties that independent organisations such as Airwars and Amnesty International have mapped out? Is the Minister also prepared to conduct an independent investigation into the incident in Hawija, but also into the other Dutch attacks? Is the Minister prepared to ask the Public Prosecutor to release the investigation into the four incidents and is CENTCOM also requested to release relevant investigations? Mr. Chairman. How is it that the Minister shifts her responsibility for victims to the Iraqi government? The damage they have suffered must be compensated. And why hasn't this happened long ago, when the Netherlands knew from the start that it went horribly wrong? I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister cannot and must not hide behind her predecessor. Nor can the Minister hide behind the Iraqi Government. The Minister must certainly not hide behind the kites. This is about the political responsibility of this minister and her responsibility alone. Does the Minister agree with me? Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a point of principle to the Minister but also to my colleagues. Do we have to accept here today that when the Netherlands is at war, this is done in secret and that the people's representatives are not reported what is the result of the use of Dutch weapons, heavy weapons, in this case F-16s? And this while we are told on every occasion and told how exactly these Dutch high-tech bombs are. Those myths combined with secrecy are unworthy of a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u5	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u6	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, more than four years after that, the word finally came out: as a result of two Dutch bombings in the framework of the anti-IS mission in Iraq, 74 civilian victims were killed, referred to in Defence terms by the terrible word'side damage'. It would be a gain if the minister stopped using that term. So it's more than four years after that, almost a year after our contribution to that mission ended. No misunderstanding: the Labour Party supported the purpose and necessity of the anti-IS mission and also the Dutch participation in it. We're still behind that. The men and women of our armed forces have done important work in this respect, as they always do on missions all over the world. We must, of course, take into account the often complex situation on the ground and the need to ensure the safety of our men, but it is also part of our rule of law that openness is being exercised here, especially in relation to potential civilian casualties. There has been no such openness. In fact, as is now acknowledged, despite repeated questions, the House of Representatives has been misinformed, not informed, but misinformed. "No, the Netherlands is not involved in attacks in which civilian casualties are to be regretted," although they were, and at that time they were already known to the Defence Minister and the Minister at the time. The Chamber has therefore been deliberately misinformed. It can't be. We are talking today about this, about the consequences of this and about how this minister will inform us in future in matters like this. We need to talk about that, too, but we need to talk about more. The current Minister's remark, "that was then and from now on we're going to do it differently," is a little too easy, also because that new insight may have arisen only after investigative journalists revealed the truth. Doubt about that may bother the minister, but let's be honest: the track record of Defense, when it comes to transparency, is simply not about writing home. Hence the request to the Minister to now give full disclosure of what happened and why, to begin with, in 2015. That was in the middle of the first mission in which we participated, when there was perhaps already pressure at the time, and that pressure was not reduced in the following years to the extension of that mission. Perhaps there was already an informal request from the Americans. A discussion about civilian casualties might be bad. I ask for openness about what happened in the years after, as I have said, but also for openness about what happened after this minister took office in the course of 2017, over two years ago. When did this minister know that civilian casualties had indeed occurred? How long did she keep her mouth shut about that and why? Because the operation was still going on, I read. But the Dutch contribution to this came to an end at the end of last year. Then why did it take almost a year after that? We are now in November.. before that news only officially came out yesterday? How transparent is that? Because last Friday, when the first F-35 was flown in, the Minister could speak to our kites in Leeuwarden, I read somewhere in a newspaper. I don't think so. Wasn't it mainly because the minister had the idea that she had to, that she couldn't get out of it anymore? Moreover, the Minister says that she wants to be more transparent than her predecessor, but how transparent is that? Suppose the same situation occurs on another mission; we hope not of course. So what is the openness that the Minister is now preaching? What's he suggesting? Then she says, "Yes, it's terrible, but there have been civilian casualties?" Or is she saying what she thought should have been said to her predecessor, namely: I'm not saying anything about that at all? In any case, it will not provide incorrect information, but it will be transparent. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with the facts that the Chamber has had to ask for and what we have just received. When I read what I read in it, put it in chronological order, it reads like this: first wrongly deny that civilian casualties have occurred, then immediately admit that it would have been open if that had been the case, then say nine months later that, because of the security of a mission that has been going on for a year and a half, then all kinds of investigations about legality and then finally, after our last effort, ten months, you can no longer say anything, as it is called, a new test of the possibilities of greater transparency within the aforementioned frameworks. Let me be honest, that fact story does not so much provide answers, but more new questions. Those questions need to be answered today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u7	We are surprised that the PvdA Group says that it is still behind that mission, while dozens have died and hundreds have been injured. Maybe there are more, but we don't know that. We can't know that yet. So we're surprised. At that time, Mr Koenders was Minister for Foreign Affairs. Do you think that at that time, together with Minister Hennis, Mr Koenders was aware of the murders and that they both withheld them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u8	Let me first respond to the first. We stood and supported the mission. I do not know how Mr Öztürk looks at IS, but we are pleased that a broad coalition has entered into the fight with IS, and we think it is only natural that the Netherlands should be part of it. Then the second part. I have no reason to believe that the Foreign Minister at the time was aware of the civilian casualties in the attacks that were being carried out here. Moreover, he did not express himself anywhere in the sense of: there were no casualties. We're having a debate with the Secretary of Defense today. She herself expressed an opinion on her predecessor. There are facts about this too. Furthermore, I am far from speculating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u9	How Öztürk thinks about IS knows the whole world: IS simply needs to be addressed. But that's not the point. The point is that mistakes have been made and they have not been told. I think the Foreign Minister, your party colleague, Mr Koenders, was aware at that time. You were in the coalition at the time. Should it be so that Mr Koenders was aware, like Minister Hennis, are you prepared to call him to account for this and, where necessary, to determine the penalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u10	With the exception that the then Foreign Minister was, in my view, also a member of Mr Öztürk's party...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u11	That's not right!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u12	No, wait a minute. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u13	... I have just indicated that I do not need any speculations that distract from the debate we are having here today. We're having a debate with the Secretary of Defense. Facts have come out about communications from the former Secretary of Defense. The Foreign Minister is not involved in this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u14	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u15	The whole issue was played in 2015 and Mr Kerstens knows that I was kicked out of the PvdA Group at the end of 2014. So in that respect, it wasn't my minister. I understand that you want to cover Mr Koenders, but at the moment when murders are being kept secret, whether by Hennis, Bijleveld or Koenders, I don't care if they all have to be held accountable here in the Chamber and they have to be dealt with where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u16	But that wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u17	No, that wasn't a question. I have indicated that we are having a debate here with the Secretary of Defense. I think that Mr Öztürk has just heard me say clearly that I think we should be transparent, especially where civilian casualties occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u19	Mr. Chairman. The reason why we stand here is violent and sad. It's a bomb that was thrown on an ISIS bomber, a terrorist who was destroying the lives of many others. Unfortunately, the huge amount of extra explosives that were present at that bomb maker caused a massive explosion, causing 70 deaths to be regretted. The attack itself was justified. The target was justified. The implementation was in accordance with the pre-established requirements. Found and found the D.A.'s office. There's nothing to blame for the kite. Let me repeat once again that the VVD is proud of the men and women of the armed forces, and also of these kites, who do their job under very difficult conditions. As regards the communication to the Chamber, I note that the information given in response to questions from the Chamber of 23 June 2015 did not correspond to information submitted to the Minister on 9 June 2015. That is wrong in substance and also procedurally incorrect, because at that time the procedure to be followed was that Defence did not mention civilian casualties during ongoing operations. In November 2017, this Minister was aware of cases where potential civilian casualties had occurred. Did she know that the information shared with the Chamber on 23 June 2015 did not correspond to the information available? The VVD is in favour of transparency with regard to civilian casualties, but with the understanding that the information should not endanger the military, the operation and the home front. The information must also not be traceable to individual military personnel. If a military man has done everything in his right hands, there can only be one final responsibility, and that is the Secretary of Defense. Does the Minister agree with me? With the letter sent by this minister, she breaks with earlier policy that there is no communication about individual missions. However, in a general discussion in May, we spoke with a minister who was not inclined to be more transparent, in an exchange of views with Mr Karabulut. What changed between the debate in May and yesterday's letter? Why hasn't a new test of the possibility of greater transparency been discussed with the Chamber since the end of the mission, as described in the letter and the story of the facts? What exactly has been investigated and can we get those results? When was the investigation finally concluded? Then I have one more factual question. Is the fact story complete? I miss the letter of 28 August 2015. Those are answers to questions from Mr Van Bommel. What choices are made to include letters in the factual account? Finally, Mr President. These questions are very important to me and to the VVD. They're touching the security of our military. They are mine and our first priority. As I said before, my group is in favour of transparency, but I must never repeat that: never be at the expense of the security of the military, his or her home front or the mission. I note that this Minister has changed his thinking on this issue. Can she take us into consideration and send us the results of her research? What has policy become different from what it used to be? Can the Minister clarify that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u20	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u21	I do have one question. The Chamber has been lied to since 2015. Information has been withheld. The media and the investigation of journalists were needed to make this minister speak something of the truth. What's your verdict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u22	We always judge after the debate. I always think that's nice. I have asked a number of questions, which are of interest to the VVD Group and to me personally. I think it is appropriate for the Minister to have the opportunity to answer all the questions we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u23	Does the group of the VVD recognise that we have been lied to, that information has been withheld and that the Chamber has been misinformed? Does the fraction of the VVD recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u24	I think I also said in my account that the information given to the Chamber was incorrect and also procedurally incorrect. That's what I reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u26	Finally. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore share our request that at least this incident, which has gone horribly wrong, should be investigated independently and that it should now be given openness in order to put an end to this secret side of this war?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u27	I have great confidence in the rule of law, the Dutch rule of law, and in the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor. If Mrs Karabulut asks for an independent investigation, I say that's the Public Prosecutor's Office. Or Mrs. Karabulut should say she doesn't trust the D.A.'s office. But she doesn't say that. She's not gonna say that either; I'm sure she will. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall review all military efforts involving violence. For us, for the VVD but also for me, that is a huge prerequisite to arrive at an assessment of what has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u28	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u29	Yeah, actually, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u30	But then Mr Bosman should at least ask whether these investigations by the Public Prosecutor can be made public? Unless Mr Bosman knows those investigations, because I do not know them and cannot therefore make that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u31	Then I shall come back to transparency. Transparency is always for the protection of the military and the mission. If we feel that we should address someone with regard to operations that have been committed, that is the Minister of Defence and not the individual military.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u32	The spokesperson of the VVD says: we are in favour of transparency. I had a discussion with Mr Ten Broeke in an AO in 2017. He said we're transparent enough, we have all the information, we don't have to. But in the meantime, there are dozens of civilian deaths. Minister Hennis, your own partymate, hid it for years. Do you not agree that at that time we were not transparent and still not transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u33	I think I have explained why we believe that transparency is possible. However, I have set a number of conditions for this transparency. In addition, I would like to stress once again that what is happening is being tested by the Public Prosecutor's Office. So it's not like we think in total ignorance we have to judge things that happen. If there had been cases where the Public Prosecutor's Office considered that cases had gone wrong, prosecution would have been initiated. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u34	Minister Hennis knew in the very short term that civilian deaths have occurred. As a body hider, she did not share the information about the civilian casualties with the VVD and not with the entire Chamber. She is now a UN envoy. Imagine that! Someone who is more or less responsible for murders sits there as a UN envoy, as a Dutchman from Heerlen. Do you, as a VVD man, find that someone who's been hiding murders for years can practice those kinds of functions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u35	Mr. President, um... It emotions me more than I think. Mr Öztürk has just made my colleagues a murderer. I think it is totally inappropriate, but totally inappropriate, what is being said here. I'm gonna distance myself from this. I'm really mad about this. And I am not going to serve Mr Öztürk with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u36	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u37	Mr President, that is too easy. That's too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u38	Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u39	There have been murders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr. Öztürk!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u41	People were killed there. I can't say any other words for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u42	Mr. Öztürk, you've made your point. That is what happened to Mr Bosman. You cannot force Mr Bosman to give an answer. He doesn't choose to do that, and that's his right. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u43	On a point of order, Madam President. I also think that you should address Mr Öztürk to the fact that he makes military but also ministers murderers when we talk about a war against ISIS and where victims fall into war. You can't do that. That's out of order. It is unprofessional of Mr Öztürk and it is also scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u44	Then you made your point, too. Mr Öztürk, it is not the first time that we have disagreed on how you conduct the debate. I also think it is very important that Members of Parliament send that signal, otherwise it is always the President who has to correct Members of Parliament, so this point has been made clear in that respect. The Minister of Defence is here under state law and he takes responsibility for this cabinet, but also for its predecessors, so you should not hold all kinds of other ministers responsible for all kinds of matters, but you should simply ask the Minister in the debate. I now turn to Mr Van Helvert, on behalf of the CDA. I would very much appreciate it if we could also have this debate in a dignified manner and that it would not go unpunished in insults. I have had enough of that, I must say, which is why I did not react immediately. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our women and men of the armed forces are taking part in the fight against ISIS on behalf of our homeland, in a coalition of 81 countries and organisations. With our F-16s, specific targets of ISIS are bombed and our F-16s provide air support to the ground troops there. They have done so in two phases in recent years and those missions have now been completed. 3,000 times those pilots flew out and 2,100 were also deployed. The Dutch pilots are known as the best in the world. If the Netherlands is carrying out precision bombing, it is rarely accompanied by civilian casualties. All the more precarious and painful, especially for our people in the armed forces themselves, but for all of us in the Netherlands, today we are talking about a bombing, one of those 2.100, where it did go wrong, and in such a way that 70 civilian victims were killed. That's terrible, especially for the victims and the next of kin. Every bombing will be submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is the way it is done and that is how it should be done in a rule of law, and we are also proud that it is here. That state's attorney's office decides every time, every bombing, whether criminal prosecution should take place, and that was not the case, Madam President. I think it is very good to say that this has not been the case. There is no need for criminal prosecution. The pilot's not to blame. Defence itself has also done research and this investigation was already completed in 2016. So it was established that 70 civilian casualties had occurred. It is now fair, in the context of the pilots' national, operational and individual safety, that no direct information can be provided during an operation. So I do not agree with colleagues who say that something has been hidden for years. I think it is fair not to say anything, if that is in the interests of the nation, of the operation or of the pilot. That's good, too. In fact, I would ask the Minister to do the same. However, the operation ended in December 2018. Then why is it still 11 months until the Chamber is informed about the number of civilian casualties? That operation was over 11 months ago. Why is the Minister talking in the June 2018 letter about "definitely to very likely citizens" when we are just sure that this is true, including from the investigation of the Defense Department itself? Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has been calling for transparency for some time, and this Minister has actually directly embraced and promoted this when she came into office. On this point, the Minister gave a letter to the Chamber to create improvements in that transparency. From the news I understood that last week the Minister discovered that the statements made by her predecessor in 2015 were not correct. Then the Minister chose to give all the transparency directly to the Chamber and the whole world. My question to the Minister is then: how could you not find out last week that your predecessor's statements were incorrect? And then: what follow-up steps will the Minister take to improve the transparency process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u46	I would like to stress that none of my colleagues here, I dare say, says that we must play with the safety of the people who carry out the work. Nobody.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u47	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u48	So we can park it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u49	No, we should just mark that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u50	I can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u51	That's very important. That's really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u52	He agrees with you, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u53	It's not about national security, either. We know from the AIVD and other sources that when you step into this coalition and bomb it, you're a target. Then we run an increased risk. I would like to say the truth about this at the heart of the matter. What is the truth about these secret parts of the war must be made public. The Chamber, we must take ourselves seriously and be informed fairly. That did not happen in 2015. That didn't happen in 2016. That didn't happen in 2017. That didn't happen in 2018. This minister only felt the need to release something of the truth after the press came up with the investigation. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u54	That is a lot of things, Madam President, which allow you to be interrupted. Let me peel them all off. We very much agree on the issues that Mrs Karabulut started with, namely that it is important to ensure operational safety, that pilot safety is safeguarded and that national security is also protected. I am glad that we agree on that. Next, Mrs Karabulut says: the Minister said wrong things about the civilian victims in 2015. But I believe that we have jointly supported Mrs Diks' request for a debate in order to clarify this. So I think we both want to be clear about this. So these are actually four things that we are on the same page. Then Mrs Karabulut said: why was it all hidden from 2015? I'm gonna make a snipe over there. I think it is quite right that, in the context of national, operational or individual security, which we have just agreed on, you may not be able to clarify until later. I think that is very fair and I would even ask the Minister if one of these three aspects of security is at stake. So I can't say right away that everything has been hidden so far. My question is more: how can a minister say something wrong in 2015, namely about civilian casualties, when the policy is not to say anything about it? Then the Minister also says that no civilian casualties have occurred, while it now appears that this is the case. These questions are now before the Minister. I am also very curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u55	Okay. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u56	Finally, I have a question. The operation was terminated and closed in December 2018, preventing operational security from being compromised. Then why did it take another 11 months before we were informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u57	Good. Yes. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u58	We were cheated in 2015. It's a lie. It's a lie. The years after that, the truth never followed. Let me put a question to Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u59	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u60	A short question about the future. The Netherlands has bombed 2,100 times. We're down to 74 victims now. Mr Van Helvert says: it is all very precise. But it could be Airwars 740, and according to the New York Times, maybe thousands more. Now that these operations have been completed, does Mr Van Helvert agree with me that at least all information should be released? In this way we can investigate how clean this war is and actually find out the truth about the civilian victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u61	The difficult word you call "all" is "all." It's only four letters, but it's very difficult. "All information" is, of course, a lot. I cannot here, and I do not think that you can judge from the interrupting microphone to what extent this would harm national, operational or individual security. So I can't share that with you. What I do share with you is the importance of increasing transparency. You have asked this question in many previous debates, and the SP has always been a strong supporter of it. I can share that with you; we both support that. That is why I am pleased that the Minister has embraced this and I have finished with my question: how are we, Madam Minister, going to ensure that this transparency is improved in the future? So the question you are asking me, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u62	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u63	Finally. Does the CDA group agree with me that the information needed to determine whether or not more citizens have been victims of Dutch bombing should be released under responsible circumstances? Does the CDA group agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u64	In my view, we have perhaps asked the Minister more often than I have asked Mrs Karabulut of the SP: how can you increase transparency so that more information can be released so that we can better check what happened in the war? We share that question with the Minister. The difficult thing is that Mrs Karabulut says she wants everything released. There I make a reservation, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u65	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u66	... operational national and individual security are at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u67	I have a question for Mr Van Helvert. You state that you consider it wise that the Chamber is not informed during operations. That's also standing policy. There we all agree, I think, on our own. But it went wrong in Minister Hennis' answer to factual questions: in the end, she indicated that no civilian casualties had been suffered. That was, of course, a flagrant lie, because she knew then for two weeks that more than 70 people had died. Do you agree with me that Minister Bijleveld cannot be held responsible for this, but that she can be held responsible for the fact that she did not give that information to the Chamber after she took office and after this information became known?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u68	I asked Minister Bijleveld why she didn't come up with that information until now. What Minister Hennis said is indeed very peculiar and weird; that is why we supported your request for a debate. First of all, Minister Hennis said that there were no civilian casualties. That is weird, because we now know that it is, but she knew that at the time, and because it was agreed not to say anything about civilian casualties at the time. So that's really weird. Two: it is also strange that Minister Hennis said that bombing would stop bombing entire neighbourhoods, while a neighborhood had just been bombed. So that's very strange, too. The third strange thing is that Minister Hennis said that nothing could be said in the context of the safety of the F-16 pilots, although she did. It is therefore very strange that the Minister did say something about these three points. The question to the Minister, who has already been asked by several people and who I, like you, have asked, is: how does the Minister respond to this? 'Cause this is pretty special.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u70	Mr. Chairman. 22 innocent women and 26 children were killed by Dutch bombs in the Iraqi city of Hawija. A residential area was wiped out by bombs; dozens of civilian deaths; dozens of families destroyed. That's terrible, but this minister doesn't see the seriousness of this murder. This minister calls these 22 women and 26 children who have died "unintended collateral damage." Imagine: you'll only be a next of kin who's lost his wife, child or parents, and then you'll hear here from the minister, freezing cold, that it was accidental collateral damage. What does that do to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u71	Let me make a point of order. I think that we should debate such a difficult situation professionally, that may be emotionally, but respectfully. Mr President, you have said to Mr Öztürk that the term'murder' is a serious injustice to the pilots and the rulers. Mr Bosman and I spoke to him through you. Now, in his first sentence, Mr Öztürk has just again referred to the word'murder'. I don't think that's possible. I think that you should address Mr Öztürk. I think that if he debates in this way, he cannot take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u72	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Van Helvert. I really object to Mr Öztürk taking the word'murder' in his mouth, because that has simply not been the case. Mr Öztürk, I find it a real shame that you do so, because you put the military in a way that really doesn't give a pass. You were one of the people in the Chamber who sent these soldiers out, and certainly not to turn them into murderers. So I'm really gonna distance myself from the words you're using here. I sincerely hope you will do the same yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u73	Mr. Chairman. By using the word "murder," Mr Öztürk suggests that there is intent. And if something hasn't been in play, then that's the pilot's intent. I therefore ask Mr Öztürk to choose his words carefully and to take the word'murder' back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u74	Mr. Chairman. I agree with that. You can speak of murder if there is intent and premeditated counsel. All the studies show that this is not the case. It would be a good thing for Mr Öztürk to take back his words and express his appreciation for the men and women of our armed forces who are doing very important work in difficult circumstances, including for the safety of Mr Öztürk and his children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u75	Mr. Chairman. I agree with what my colleagues have said. We are having a political debate here. It's not about how soldiers did their job. And using terms like "murder" is just really horrible. So I ask Mr Öztürk: are there not other things that you can emphasise enough to be able to conduct the debate properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u76	Mr. Chairman. The word "murder" implies a legal qualification in the Code of Criminal Law. I think it is up to the criminal court to determine whether, in an occasional case, there is murder, and not to MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u77	Mr Öztürk, I assume you take the remarks of the entire Chamber seriously and that you also take into account the emotional charge that your words contain. I would urge you to take that into account. I find it extremely annoying and uncomfortable that in a debate about so many people who have died, attention is now being paid to you because of your language. I'm just saying that honestly. You have the freedom to express your opinion, to state whether or not you agree with the Minister or anyone else. But do not use words that lead to emotion but that also simply have a different charge than you might have meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u78	Mr. Chairman. Survivors say their loved ones were murdered. That is also a feeling that may be expressed. I've been looking at my lines. I understand that some people can get emotional about this, but the family of the people who eventually died also has emotions. I understand that our military are doing their best. I read today that one of the pilots is having a hard time. I get that. But on the other hand, we are also a democracy, we are also a parliament. The feelings and emotions of the people there can also be shown here. I do not think we should look unilaterally at the matter. The feelings of the people who have lost their loved ones there are also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u79	Finally, because in the end, you just have to keep your story. The whole Chamber has supported the request for this debate and has wanted this debate. It is therefore not the case that one Member of Parliament has more respect for the victims or takes more account of the next of kin. I think that's something everyone here shares, so that's not exactly the point. If you confine yourself to the content, I hope that we can just have a worthy debate. Of course, you can express your criticism here in the manner or whatever. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u80	Does this minister have a heart? Can this minister imagine how much suffering our country has caused? How many families have been destroyed by this? Is this minister in touch with reality? Does she know what these inhumane and bureaucratic statements like "it's unintentional collateral damage" do to those people? Does this minister already deserve a motion of censure because she dares to speak to WNL and other broadcasters of "unintended collateral damage"? Mr. Chairman. The Dutch government lied. On 23 June 2015, the victims were denied by the government. On 30 June, the victims were again denied. Twice the Chamber has been deliberately lied to, because the government can't say she didn't know. The Netherlands itself concluded that the entire district in Hawija was wiped off the map. On 9 June, the Secretary of Defense was briefed on the attack. On 15 June, the government received a report stating that civilians have died. The minister was personally briefed on the victims. A few days later, she knowingly lied to the Chamber. The Minister of Defence deserves a motion of censure for this too. Many times DENK has asked for more transparency about civilian casualties, in AO's, in debates, in motions, in hearings. Because Airwars research showed that the Netherlands shares almost nothing about this. But every time the Minister said: we are working on it; we are already transparent. My colleagues from VVD and CDA also said that. "Go to sleep in peace." Now we know that we have been lied about the 22 women and 26 children who have died for four years. That's outrageous. Why didn't the government listen to all these calls from DENK and other parties? This Minister, too, deserves a vote of no confidence. Mr. Chairman. Not only does this government lie, it also refuses to take responsibility. The Minister writes in her letter to the Chamber that Iraq is responsible for paying for the damage and that the next of kin should ask for money from Iraq. Unbelievable, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands participates in bombing in the Middle East. Throwing those Dutch bombs will kill hundreds of civilians. Next, the Netherlands says that the damage must be paid by Iraq. That's unjust, heartless and idiotic. DENK demands that the government compensates for all the suffering and damage. Mr. Chairman. Who hid the civilians who were killed by Dutch bombs? Who's the room lied to? Minister Bijleveld is responsible, but it was ex-Minister Hennis. She lied knowingly and knowingly. Ex-Minister Hennis is a body hider, a body hider who has been rewarded with a job as a UN envoy in Iraq. She hid these civilian victims who were killed in Iraq, and now she's got a job there. What's that supposed to be like for the next of kin? As far as DENK is concerned, this body hider can no longer work as a UN envoy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u81	This is really...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u82	DENK therefore wants the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u83	Do you think about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u84	... is internationally committed to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u85	You said you'd take the rest into account...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u86	...to take away her job as a U.N. Envoy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u87	...Mr. Öztürk. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u88	Madam President, once again on a point of order. You haven't interrupted yourself yet, so I walked forward. If we are going to use a word for a former minister as a 'look hider' in such an important debate, I do not think it is professional and not respectful. I understand very well what Mr Öztürk just said, that there are traumatized and disappointed families in Syria, in Iraq, and that we all have to take into account and want to take into account their grief. But that doesn't mean we have to yell at the words of disappointed people here one-on-one. It is also our job as a representative of the people to tell victims what is going on here, namely that people have died in a struggle to free them. If Mr Öztürk cannot and cannot do so in this debate, I do not think that is professional and not respectful. This is not the way to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u89	Then Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u90	I very much regret that Mr Öztürk uses that word in the direction of former Minister Hennis. It does not do justice to the efforts that I think she has made. I actually wanted to compliment you on the fact that you chose the right words in an earlier description of the military and the choices that have been made. Then I had to take that thought back immediately because you used the word "look hider." I am really asking you not to use words like this in the debate. It really doesn't do justice. I really feel like you want to do justice to the people of Iraq. That's what we all want here. That is why I wanted to have this debate very much, but I would like to be respectful and with the right wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u91	Were you done with your contribution, Mr Öztürk? No? Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u92	The victims and their families have had to fight for four years to find out what really happened. The minister knew in a few months. For years, this minister has kept it from me. The suffering and pain of the victims and their families have therefore persisted for many years. And that's not what we're talking about. That is why I say that it simply cannot be possible for a minister who does something like this to become a UN envoy afterwards. Surely it can't be that a UN envoy for years has kept quiet about what happened there and caused pain to all those family members and relatives? That is why I ask the government to call on the UN to have ex-Minister Hennis immediately return as a UN envoy to demonstrate to the victims that it is willing to call back a person, even if it is an ex-minister, who has lied to you, made people hurt and caused suffering. That is why it is wise that I should be given an answer. I'm going to table a motion on that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u93	Good. I shall now go to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u94	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my deepest sympathy for the victims and their families and for the air force personnel who were so unhappy to find themselves in this situation. There were approximately 70 casualties in the bombing on the night of 2 to 3 June 2015. The NRC study speaks of 22 women and 26 children. This does not appear in the letter and in the Minister's factual account. How is that possible? Can the Minister confirm these numbers, and does she agree with me that this means that more than half of the victims are civilian victims? Mr. Chairman. On page 1 of the Minister's letter it can be read that the Netherlands itself has found that there are certainly very likely civilian casualties to be regretted as a direct result of Dutch arms deployment. Does this mean that there are cases where it has not been found by the Netherlands that there are civilian casualties to be regretted by Dutch arms deployment, but others do? What kind of bomb was thrown? Does the Minister also want to open up the matter? The cabinet is and remains of the opinion that during the deployment period the release of exact location, date and likely number of civilian casualties as a result of Dutch arms deployment would have posed an excessive risk to national, operational and personal security. The Minister writes: "As Minister of Defense, I attach great importance to the security of individual pilots, support for Defence personnel and the home front." Can the Minister now guarantee that the whole risk for these people is not present? Furthermore, the Minister writes that four different possible deployments of the air weapon with civilian casualties have been investigated by the Public Prosecutor. What is striking about this is that everything is going on in Iraq. Why is this? Does this have to do with the fact that Iraq is relatively easy to investigate in relation to Syria's territory? Could there also be civilian casualties in Syria? When did the Minister intend to inform the Chamber about this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the most important question: does the Minister feel responsible for the fact that the Minister of Defence has not informed the Chamber and even deliberately misinformed it? In the interview with the NRC yesterday, this minister told us that she was informed of the civilian casualties when she took office. I quote: "in the briefings after I took office as Minister at the end of 2017." Did she not feel any need to share this with the Chamber at that time? Is the Dutch government's current openness to civilian victims a policy choice of its own, or could the Minister have been otherwise through all the investigations and publicity of the NRC? The Minister was going to inform us anyway, she says now. She wanted to do that, so to speak, carefully. But when? And why did she need two years to do that? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u95	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u96	Mr. Chairman. In the night of 2 to 3 June 2015, at least 70 people died in a Dutch air strike at a warehouse in Hawija, Iraq. The coalition that fought against IS in Iraq and Syria wanted to defuse a factory for car bombs. The bombing destroyed an adjacent residential area and killed dozens of innocent people. Mr. Chairman. At the time, the Party for Animals, with the SP, did not agree to the Dutch air strike on Iraq. We feared that air strikes would exacerbate the humanitarian crisis and further strengthen the breeding ground for terrorists. And that's what happened. So-called precision bombings have not prevented at least 70 people from leaving their lives. ISIS is military defeated, but continues his terror. The city of Hawija is still in ruins. The Minister's letter on this matter has a very bad taste. It shows once again that this Chamber is increasingly dependent on investigative journalists for its information position to get the truth out of the table. Without the work of these journalists, the Chamber would still be in the dark about the consequences four and a half years after the air attack. In a so-called attempt at transparency, the Minister merely raises more questions. How is it possible that the coalition's intelligence was so incomplete that it was overlooked that, as the minister himself said in an interview with the NRC, there were perhaps hundreds of trucks with TNT in the warehouse? The Minister says that we do not calculate civilian casualties; that is not how we work. But the Animal Party finds that hard to believe. War is not predictable, not even a war waged with advanced weapons. There's no doubt that there's gonna be casualties. How is it that the Minister doesn't take civilian casualties into account, as she says? Because then the Netherlands would think three times before agreeing to so-called precision bombing. In addition, it appears that the Minister has not been fully informed. According to a report by Airwars, 22 women and 26 children were killed. Can the Minister confirm these figures? Journalists note that there are probably dozens of people left under the rubble. Can the Minister confirm that there are probably more than 70 fatalities to be regretted? The Party for the Animals also has questions about how the Netherlands acted after the attack, because the fact story shows that the Netherlands knew that something had gone completely wrong right after the attack and that there was much more damage than had been estimated in advance. Then what was the response from the DOD to the victims? Has anyone tried to help survivors? Has anyone been examined to see if there were anyone else under the rubble? Or has it only been looked at the legality of the commitment and any procedural errors, as the Minister writes in the facts? Then the responsibility of the Netherlands to help with the havoc it has caused. Somewhere in the last four and a half years, has someone in the Defense Department come up with the idea of travelling to the city of Hawija to talk to victims, relatives and hospital staff and inspect the damage caused by the Netherlands? Because if you decide to carry out air strikes, you also have to help rebuild the country. Professor Zegveld says in Trouw that the Netherlands is obliged to pay damages because the Netherlands has explicitly stipulated that Dutch law applies to the action of the armed forces in Iraq. Can the Minister reflect on that? Locking up, Mr. Chairman. It is cynical to insist that in an attack where 70 people died, "nothing went wrong in itself," as the minister did yesterday in Nieuwsuur. In her letter yesterday, she repeats that everything went by the book with at least 70 dead and 100 injured as accidental collateral damage. With this unfortunate choice of words, she dehumanizes the many victims. That is why I ask the Minister to distance himself from this wording. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u97	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u98	Mr. Chairman. War is hard and doesn't really know any winners. There can always be civilian casualties. Unfortunately, that is the tragedy of reality. That is precisely why everything must be done to prevent this and be honest about the consequences if they are. Mr. Chairman. For D66, military intervention is never the first option. Sometimes, however, it is no different. Sometimes there is a greater evil and there is nothing you can do but do such an intervention. In this case, taking responsibility means good accountability. That is why for years D66 has been advocating maximum transparency and openness when it comes to civilian casualties. Mr. Chairman. We have a lot of questions. Perhaps a number of questions from me and my colleagues overlap, but it cannot be repeated often enough. Mr. Chairman. The air attack on Hawija on 3 June 2015 has turned out differently than planned. It appears that the consequences are disastrous, almost immediately after the air attack. A check flight after the air strike shows that a complete neighborhood has been destroyed. Defense reports this directly to CENTCOM, the U.S. Department of Defense, and also launchs its own investigation. On 15 June 2015, the Ministry of Defence will receive the final report from CENTCOM, concluding that civilian casualties have occurred. In addition, the Minister now states in her own factual account that it is likely that the most concerned ministries have been informed about the existence of this investigation. I was a little surprised at this sentence, because it is a fact story and then it is very important to be very factual. So my question is: why does the Minister mention this? Which ministries are concerned? And which rulers are they? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the then Minister replied to written questions on 23 June 2015: "As far as is currently known, there has been no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties from air strikes in Iraq." A week later, on 30 June 2015, the Minister said in the debate on the progress of the mission in Iraq: "All reports on civilian casualties are immediately being investigated by the coalition, but that has not been the case so far." On September 21, 2015, the weather went wrong. I am consciously saying that things are going wrong, not because the kite is blamed, not because something can be blamed on the Netherlands, but because something went wrong when an air attack wipes out a complete house and four unsuspecting relatives die. It turned out to be the same after all. The air strike was carried out on the basis of incorrect information. The Netherlands is not blamed here. However, the Chamber was again not informed by then Minister of Defence Hennis. How can it be that the former Secretary of Defense provided the Chamber with false information, that she also promised so much, but then never complied with, and that this Secretary of Defense is only now coming out, after all the media coverage and all the openness that that has brought? Mr. Chairman. Why didn't the Minister correct all this earlier, for example when she took office in November 2017? The minister says in an interview that she was briefed about the attack and the consequences. In her report on the facts, the Minister indicated that she had been informed on the main points. My question is: have you been informed in broad terms, or have your officials also specifically informed you at that time about the number of civilian casualties in the Hawija and Mosul air attacks? Did the Minister also know that her predecessor had misinformed the Chamber about this? If she didn't know that at the time, when did she? And why didn't she inform the Chamber immediately when she was aware of it? Because in interviews, the Minister states that she thinks it's important to bring that out. You can say that's very common. It's a little complicated from a state point of view, but it's possible. But I get a little confused when I put all the facts together. If the former minister felt that nothing should have been said, then she should not have said anything, nor should she have suggested that nothing was wrong. Then this minister states: yes, I knew it, and I am so open to report it to you. But then I think: why didn't you do that in November 2017, or, for example, on 1 January 2019, when the military mission was completed? Then you could have said: I hate it, but I have bad news, and I bring it out myself. You are now making a bit of a suggestion, which lies with the Minister, that it has taken place as a result of media coverage. Mr. Chairman. I am convinced that the Minister knows that the government is obliged to inform the Chamber. This obligation to provide information is laid down in the Constitution, and Mrs Bijleveld herself has been a Member of Parliament for twelve years. When it comes to human lives, when it comes to difficult decisions, the Chamber must have the right information. That is why we continue to advocate transparency and openness, even when it comes to bad news. So my hope is that the Minister will give all the factual information about this whole debacle that the Chamber considers necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u99	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u100	I was wondering what the D66 Group is now demanding in terms of openness in the handling of this matter, given this harsh conclusion. Does Mrs Belhaj, for example, share my view that the investigation of the prosecution should be released and that the data of the 2,100 times that weapons have been deployed should be released so that it can be determined whether the number of civilian deaths is not much higher, et cetera, et cetera? Could you give us some insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u101	Sure. I note that Mrs Karabulut indicated that it would be interesting if that information from the Public Prosecutor's Office would become public. I think that is an interesting request, provided that it does not, of course, allow people to be traced back to it. But that is specifically about the investigation of the extent to which the persons concerned have done their work properly or not. That's the criminal part. But there is also, of course, a section on state liability. That's what I'm calling it; I don't know if I'm going to put that into words. In her letter, the Minister states that the Netherlands has no compensation arrangements, because we do not really feel responsible in any case. That's another one. I actually think that is very relevant, and that goes very much into Mrs Diks' questions: can we not do anything? As far as I am concerned, that is always in the military section and cannot be done from the point of view of development cooperation, as I read in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u102	No, but let me sum it up: does Mrs Belhaj then share our request to get all the information necessary to determine what the truth is, where it went wrong in this whole process, including in this incident? Does it share the view that this should be examined independently? It's not about the individual military, it's about me and everyone here. So we agree on that. That investigation is necessary in order to determine exactly what has happened and also in order to determine the state's liability. That information must be put on the table, all the more so, of course, because this whole operation has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u103	Again, I agree with Mrs Karabulut that is interesting if it is possible for the Public Prosecutor to do so. We are not dealing with it as a Chamber, but I have already indicated that, of course, it is always possible for the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the basis of all the new information, to carry out additional research into the events that have taken place. But I see Mrs Karabulut having doubts. I agree with her. So yes, it would be interesting and good to investigate that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u104	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga. I still have to get used to the new place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the fight against IS, the Netherlands has made a contribution that we can be proud of. Together with the anti-IS coalition, we have waged a war, and successfully. In addition, victims are killed. Of course, attempts are always made to avoid civilian deaths, but everyone knows that this is not always possible. There's a certain uncertainty in every operation. It is, of course, weighed up by our military experts. In this case, there were more explosives in an IS bomb factory than estimated. On 3 June 2015, this factory was hit by a Dutch precision bomb from a Dutch F-16. Unfortunately, there were 70 civilian deaths here. That's terrible. The first question here is, of course, whether Minister Hennis knew about these civilian deaths and whether she deliberately misinformed the Chamber on 23 June 2015 when she reported to the Chamber that, as far as is known, no civilian deaths had occurred. This is a difficult question, because of course she knew about the battle damage assessment, in which collateral damage was reported. She was briefed on 9 June and on 15 June there was the initial report of CENTCOM. But still can't report something you don't know, nobody gets blamed. That does not seem to be the case here. But protecting an operation and the military cannot be blamed either. That's most likely what happened here. In addition, brief information during an operation is an absolute standard. We must attach great importance to this. I think that is a very important point, which has already been mentioned by Mr Van Helvert. The second question is whether Minister Bijleveld misinformed the Chamber. On 13 April 2018, it reported that civilian casualties were very likely. I think that she has properly informed the Chamber. In any event, both ministers have taken into account the confidentiality of this operation and human and operational security. That's important. The only anomaly in this system is therefore the Communication on 23 June 2015. As far as I am concerned, it is not a good idea to diffuse the military in this debate on the basis of this communication. I support, in general, the reluctance to provide information to the Chamber at the time when the Netherlands is active in the military. That's in the interests of our military. I look forward to our Minister's first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u107	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the use of Dutch F-16s, the caliphate has been destroyed. Dutch F-16s have deployed their weapons 2,100 times. The fact that civilian casualties have occurred in only two cases shows the professionalism of our armed forces. Of course, we regret at least innocent victims. That is terrible, but it seems that in these cases everything has been reasonably done to prevent civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u108	Mr De Roon says that the Netherlands bombs so precisely that only two civilian casualties have occurred. Can Mr De Roon rule out that there have been more cases than those we know now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u109	You can never rule anything out, but you can say there's no other clue. If Mrs Karabulut says she has those clues, I'd like to hear them, but if there are no clues, I'm not going to go into that reasoning line of hers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u110	It's not about my reasoning line. The point is that the bombings have destroyed entire cities and that organisations such as Airwars, which carry out research on the ground, for example, come up with much higher numbers of civilian casualties over and over again. The essence of this debate is also that we cannot determine whether they have actually been limited to these two cases or whether there are more. Does Mr De Roon share the view that we should at least receive all the information in order to establish that, so whether it was really that precise or something less precise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u111	I understand from the letters sent to us by the Minister that all cases where there were indications that civilian casualties might have occurred have ended up with CENTCOM and have been assessed there. And if CENTCOM judged that suspicion to be justified, it was also disclosed to the government under whose responsibility that bomb was dropped. I understand from the Minister's letter that no other cases have been found along that route with the Defense Department, so I find this looking for a needle in a haystack.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u112	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u113	It's not looking for a pin in a haystack. It is also the truth to want to know from the other side of warfare, the secret side to date. That is also the job of Mr De Roon as a PVV representative, isn't it? It's our job to show it when there's less good news, isn't it? It is also our task to determine to what extent we have contributed to this, in addition to the fine aspects that you emphasise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u114	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u115	And if you name one and the other doesn't, how fair is that? How does that strike the victims who have been looking for this truth for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u116	I think we know enough about the matters for which the Netherlands is responsible. The fact that more things have happened in that war may be true, but the Netherlands is not responsible for that. I believe, on the basis of the report that we have received from the Minister, which I have just presented here, that I know enough at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u118	The fact that such disastrous and unwanted events may occur in a war must be realized by anyone who agrees with such actions. The PVV has also realised this and has consciously chosen that these actions should take place anyway. Even if you try to wage a war as carefully as possible, it could go wrong once. In any case, it is an asset that I had not mentioned yet that an immense bomb factory of Islamic State has been destroyed and that this probably prevented cowardly terrorist attacks. Mr. Chairman. But what was not professional but amateuristic is, of course, the performance of the former Minister of Defence. She lied several times. If she hadn't said anything about civilian casualties, the PVV would probably have understood that in the interests of operational and national security. But she chose a path full of lies, and that is unacceptable. Can the Minister who we have here today tell us why her predecessor acted in this way? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the letter with the facts and the role of this current Secretary of Defense in this story. In November 2017, she was informed of the air attacks involving civilian casualties. According to the facts, the Ministry of Defence started a new test of the possibility of greater transparency at the same time as the end of the F-16 mission in December 2018. Following pressure from the Chamber in May 2019 and news reports in October 2019, the Minister finally provided clarity on 4 November. So the Minister has known about the civilian casualties for two years. It is understandable that she did not present that information directly to the Chamber at the time and threw it on the street; the mission was still going on and the Netherlands was still throwing bombs at the targets of Islamic State. But the mission was completed at the end of last year, in December 2018. The caliphate disappeared like snow before the sun and still remained silent from the ministry. Can the Minister explain the silence? Why did she wait almost a year to provide more information after the mission ended? According to the timeline we got, it took more time, but for what? What has actually changed in the meantime, so that more transparency was not possible in the months immediately after the end of the mission, but after the publications of the NOS and the NRC suddenly did? Is the defence policy determined by the media or by the Minister when it comes to providing information to the Chamber and whether or not sensitive information is disclosed? It looks like the first one now. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u119	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u120	Mr. Chairman. Since October 2014, Dutch F-16s have also been part of the fight against ISIS. In the light of horrific acts of terror against men, women and children and given the risks to Europe, this fight is vital. In general, I would like to stress that our air force, including our F-16s, operates extremely carefully and professionally, and also according to very thorough procedures. But that does not mean that it is very complex operations, where things can go wrong unintentionally, especially because the bandits of IS use women and children as a living shield. In June 2015, it will indeed go wrong during an attack on a bomb factory in Hawija in Iraq. The enormous amount of ammunition in that factory is causing a second explosion and a major destruction in the area. I have a number of questions in my text that have already been asked by colleagues. I'll leave that out. I will confine myself to four questions which are really important to me to get answered. We received a letter yesterday from the Minister and today a timeline. I have the following questions about this. I miss in that timeline the conclusions of investigations conducted by CENTCOM, DOD and OM. My question is why? Why is it not a good, self-readable timeline, in which these conclusions are also expressed? I would like a clear answer to that. My second question is whether the Minister was aware of the number of civilian casualties and the Dutch involvement with Hawija when she took office in 2017. If not, when was she aware of this? My question is also why the Chamber was not informed immediately after or at a later date. If this had operational or security reasons, shouldn't the Chamber still be informed, for example in a confidential manner? My substantive question is also what are these operational or security reasons. Are these reasons beyond Parliament's obligation to provide information? Finally, my final question. On 13 April 2018 we received a letter from the ministers Blok, Bijleveld and Kaag. For example, it contained these words: it is very likely that civilian casualties have occurred during this attack. Was that only very likely or was there much more clear at that time? If that were the case, why wasn't it shared with us then, even in a confidential sense? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u121	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for yesterday's letter and today's story. Finally, we are getting openness about the information that was already in the Ministry about the at least 70 civilian casualties, while the military operation had already ended 11 months ago. This information now shows that the Minister at the time was aware of the potential civilian casualties. A week after the attack on Hawija in early June, the then minister was informed of the attack. On 9 June it was also briefed on the progress of the initial investigation of CENTCOM. That investigation showed that according to CENTCOM, it was credible that civilian casualties had occurred in this attack. My question is whether CENTCOM has also literally said that it was credible. What did it say about the civilian casualties in the final initial CENTCOM report of 15 June? This is not discussed in the facts. Has it now been established with greater certainty that civilian casualties have occurred? Mr. Chairman. On 23 June, it is said in the answer to factual questions that, to the extent known at that time, there was no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties from air strikes in Iraq. The current minister has already written that this was wrong information, but why was the Chamber not informed then? Why was the Chamber misinformed then, I have to ask. Why wasn't the phrase used at the time that no announcements would be made about it? Why was the prosecution not informed of the CENTCOM report on the attack until six months later? There was six months in between, I see in the facts. Then with regard to the current minister. We read that she was informed when she took office about the cases where there might have been civilian casualties. Was it also said at that time that the previous answer to the factual questions was wrong in 2015? If so, why didn't she immediately inform the Chamber that that information was wrong? If not, has it requested clarification from the officials? Otherwise, why was the wrong information not corrected in the progress report of 13 April 2018, which addressed the investigation in the three possible civilian casualties? In fact, even then, she is still only talking about the likelihood or possibility of civilian casualties. But it was clear by then, wasn't it, Minister? I'd like a response to that point. Why was no clarity given in the April 2019 progress report? Then the Minister agreed to respond to the request made by some Members of Parliament for greater transparency. Why did transparency only come after the investigation of Nieuwsuur? What does this, finally, say about the provision of information within the Ministry? Can the Minister reflect on that? Mr President, concluding. What can the Netherlands do to compensate for the damage to the city and the people in Hawija, even though the Netherlands may not be directly liable? What can the Netherlands do? I would like to hear the Minister's answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u123	After the lies in 2015, after completing the investigation of Defense itself into the incidents in 2016, it is reported to us in April 2018 that very likely civilian casualties have occurred, knowing that they are 70 civilian deaths. In June, I ask the Minister if the first incident she writes about is the incident in Hawija, Iraq. The Minister gives the following answer: the cabinet attaches great importance to open and transparent communication about commitment, even if this is bad news; therefore et cetera. How would you characterize this answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u124	I assume that we are now in June 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u125	No, this is June 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u126	2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u127	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u128	The military operation wasn't over by then. It was terminated in December 2018. I understand that the Minister says she would like to be more open. That was her bet from the start. At the same time, I understand that she should be reluctant to be open when a military operation is still in progress. My questions focus on the period after that, after the mission was concluded, so after December 2018. I ask the Minister why this openness did not come until after the media had informed the Chamber about it and after eleven months had passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u129	So, let me get this straight: after the double lie in 2015, in which we were simply lied to, after the completion of the investigation years later and knowing of the high number of civilian casualties, knowing of the previous statements, doesn't Mr Voordewind find this answer from the Minister to this specific question lying or otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u130	The Minister did indeed inform the Chamber that civilian casualties were very likely. It has done so with the necessary restraint because the mission was still running at that time. I would like to say that I understand that there is restraint with regard to the location and the kite. But I have just urged the Minister to give that openness when that military mission is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u131	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u132	Resuming, indeed. After enormous pressure and revelations from NOS and the NRC and after a lot of shoving off to her predecessor, the kites, the Iraqi government, the Minister confirmed this incident with great pain and difficulty. I would like to hear from Mr Voordewind that this is not what we accept as House of Representatives and that Mr Voordewind also says that we need to know the truth about the secret sides of warfare, in any way. Of course, the safety of the staff must not be compromised in any way, that is not the issue, nor is there anyone who would argue in favour of it. But it can't be that our Lower House is lied to for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u133	Mr. Chairman. I note that this Minister has had the commitment to be more transparent. This shows that she already reported in the April 2018 progress report that civilian casualties were very likely to occur in that attack. I asked why there was another blow to the arm, because the information about civilian casualties was known, wasn't it? I see a tendency there that the Minister is trying to inform the Chamber better than in the situations before, because that was the standard rule: we do not make any announcements about it. In fact, Mrs Karabulut is right that the truth was not spoken about in 2015, because it was denied that civilian casualties have occurred. Now we see that the Minister says she wants to inform the Chamber well, but in this letter I see that she is looking for a balance between what she can say when there is another mission going on, what she cannot say and what she can say when a mission is concluded. That's what my questions were all about. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u134	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u135	We will continue the debate on civilian deaths in a Dutch air strike in Iraq in 2015. We have arrived at the answers of the Secretary of Defense. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the victims and relatives of the victims who died in Hawija and Mosul. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a brief general introduction and then answer the questions in order of speakers. I would like to start with the fact that since I joined the Chamber on 26 October 2017, I have had a more frequent exchange of views with your Chamber on civilian casualties and the need for greater transparency, because as far as I am concerned, I also started with the sympathy of the cabinet, every civilian victim must be regretted. As you know, I have been thinking since my arrival about creating more transparency about civilian casualties through Dutch arms deployment. I have also taken a number of steps in recent years. I wanted to tell you why. I think it is important that we be more open to the type of complicated missions that we are discussing today, in order to maintain the basis for this. That's the first thing. Secondly, I am responsible and I also want to be accountable. That's important. It belongs here in your room. I agree with all those who have said that. Thirdly, I really think that we should be able to say more within the limits of security. That's a search if you've never done that before. What have I done in the last two years? I had the weekly review of operations modified so that more concrete information could be provided. In April 2018, I also reported a number of concrete situations that have been investigated by the D.A. In May 2019, I undertook to look at your Chamber's proposals from some members of your Chamber, including Mrs Karabulut. I've been working on that very seriously. I even took her list. Because it is so different from what we did in the past, I wanted to carry out this trajectory as carefully as possible. Mr. Bosman actually reported it like no other, I also think as a former flyer speaking: the different interests are very large. We were making a deal, and we are making, because that is also important to realize that we are part of the coalition, in which we are pulling together and moving together. I also wanted to consider the legitimate interests and concerns of the kites and their families. National security is also a factor to take into account. It is therefore about operational security, international interests and national security. Those are exactly the reasons why I have not been able to inform your Chamber about civilian casualties in recent years, because the operations were still ongoing. Now that we have stopped at the end of 2018, I have decided that it is possible to make a new weighing. That's the question I've been asked. That resulted in the letter I sent you yesterday. That was a careful process and it has taken time, perhaps too much time as far as I am concerned, but such a change of policy must be careful and I really want to say that in the direction of your Chamber. We need to talk to stakeholders, in a broad sense. You have to map all the interests, too. In the international sense, you have to do that with the coalition. It's not just about the Netherlands. We are, at the moment, still part of the anti-ISIS coalition. You must realise that although the Netherlands no longer flies there, it is still flying in the framework of the anti-ISIS coalition in Iraq and Syria. I might have wanted it faster, but I couldn't. That careful process, which I wrote about in my letter, took a lot of time. In that process, last Friday, I found that the Chamber was misinformed in 2015. Mrs Diks assumed that I already knew that, but that is by no means the case. I was just trying to figure out what it was like. I wanted to write to your Chamber, as I had agreed, for the budget, a letter on transparency in relation to civilian casualties. Last Friday, I noticed that the Chamber was misinformed in 2015. My draft letter was actually finished by then. When we did a final check on the facts, this came up. At that time, I myself decided to inform your Chamber of this fact as soon as possible. I had the draft letter adapted to that this weekend and these facts have come into play. I have done so because I, also as a former Member of Parliament, believe that Mrs Belhaj put that forward; indeed, I have been a Member of your Chamber for just over 12 years and I think that correct information is important. But also as a minister, I am committed at all times to informing the Chamber correctly. So I decided on my own initiative to amend the letter and share this fact with your Chamber. I have only done so in the letter of Parliament which dealt with transparency with regard to civilian victims. How do I judge that? Of course it shouldn't have been like that; that's what I said. I think that is what I said yesterday when I explained to the press that I cannot say much more about it. It shouldn't have been like this. As far as I am concerned, that is clear enough. Finally, in conclusion, I would like to say that as a minister I am responsible not only for my actions but also for those of my predecessors. I was asked that question today. I cannot but apologise sincerely to the Chamber for this fact, which I only established last Friday. It just shouldn't have been. In that sense, I have to apologize to the Chamber. That is what I would like to say in my general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u137	Does the Minister acknowledge and acknowledge that the Chamber has been lied to? What facts and how exactly was she informed last Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u138	I want to take a little distance from the frame that the Chamber has been lied to and that there are "lies." I've heard some of you say that. I want to distance myself from the constant use of those words. At the last check I did to inform your Chamber about civilian casualties, you can also see that in the fact sheet, I found in our files that there was something different in written answers to your Chamber, when my predecessor should have known at that time that there was Dutch involvement in civilian casualties. You shouldn't have. That's what I said. I chose to report that to you myself. I am therefore far removed from the fact that there were lies. As soon as I knew, Friday evening, when the letter on transparency was ready, because I promised your Chamber that I would send it for the budget, I found it. We adapted the letter accordingly on weekends, so that we would at least inform you in full. So what Mrs. Diks assumed, that I knew that a long time ago, is not so. I know that from Friday, November 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u139	The Minister says that the facts reported to the Court in 2015 are now not true. The minister says she found out herself last Friday. The Minister says: I am responsible for what has happened in the past. Then the follow-up question is: did the Minister of Defence know the facts in 2015? We know that quite shortly after the incident, the Netherlands was informed that things had gone terribly wrong. Did she know about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u140	I have indicated that it should not have been so, that incorrect information has in itself been provided to the Chamber. I have indicated in the fact sheet that my predecessor has been briefed. I have to assume that the facts are known, so it shouldn't have been written down like that. But I would very much like to stick to the facts, because that says enough in that sense. The information has gone in the direction of the Chamber by letter. The fact sheet simply states that the progress report sent on 23 June states "as far as it is known that there had been no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties from air strikes in Iraq," which is factually incorrect. That is the way I would like to put it. I cannot give another assessment of that. I can only say that it was factually incorrect and that at the time I knew it, last Friday, I had the entire letter of inquiry rewritten to bring it in your direction, so that at least we were transparent about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u141	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u142	Mr President, I will come up with a recapitulation later, but I will try to get all the information I can if I may. So Minister Hennis knew about it. She told us lies, though. This minister didn't find out until last Friday. Then the question is: what was the Minister told by the Ministry when she took office in November 2017? Is it true that she then had knowledge of this terrible incident and that the following year she gave yet another lying answer to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u143	Mr. Chairman. I still want to distance myself from that whole lying thing. I don't think that's a really respectful way of dealing with each other either. Because I didn't in any way...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u144	Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u145	Yeah, we're talking facts. That's very good. We're gonna talk about the facts. The fact is that I am simply telling you that I know it since last Friday and that I immediately said in your direction that your Chamber was misinformed. I will confine myself to the factual assessment that this is not right and that it should have been otherwise. It says here that there was no Dutch involvement, and in the bombing of Hawija there was certainly only a Dutch involvement. That alone makes it factually incorrect. For a moment, I don't know who in the Chamber talked about what should have happened. The general policy was that nothing should have been said. We have now changed that general policy by indicating something in your direction. The general policy with regard to such attacks was: as long as we operate, we do not say anything about what happened because of operational security, because of the safety of the kites that caused the emotion in Mr Bosman with the home front around it and the security of the State. We did that again in 2018. So that would have been much better. So you didn't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u146	No, no, no, but we'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u147	Mrs. Karabulut!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u148	Mr President, this is very closely listened to. My question has not been answered. I asked what the Minister was informed about when she took office...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u149	Then you repeated that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u150	... and why she chose the following year not to tell the truth again to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u151	I have been informed about the missions in general. I joined in October 2017. In general...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u152	No, no, no, Mrs. Karabulut! The minister's busy. Just a little longer. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u153	I'll answer, Mr. Chairman. In general terms, I have been briefed on the missions. I have also been informed, in general terms, about what that would have meant and that there were potential civilian casualties. I also have that neatly in the direction of your room... When I was able to report on this for the first time, at your request, I said the same thing. Because in April 2018 I informed you about the results of the OM investigations and continued to stick to the general line that... I think it would also be good if Mrs Karabulut and other Members of your Chamber realised that. Then we operated again in 2018, then we flew over Iraq and over Syria in very difficult conditions in IS area. That means a lot, also for the pilots, because they all have the example in front of the Jordan pilot who was burned there by the complicated circumstances. That's also something you need to realize. Then there was the general policy that we had in view of the three circumstances I mentioned to you, operational security, human security and national security... So I couldn't go back to thinking about that until 2019. I have also reported this to you, and I have also spoken to your Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u154	I have to admit that it is not getting any clearer with this answer. First I have a small question, I'd almost say. Then how would you like to qualify for the total and deliberate misinformation of the Chamber by Minister Hennis in 2015 if you object to the word "lie"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u155	You've been misinformed. I'm just doing it with the facts. You've just been misinformed. That's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u156	No, we've been given a lie. Again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u157	You've just been misinformed!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u158	Yeah, but in a way that's really very flagrant. This lie was really flagrant. The then Secretary of Defense knew about it. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u159	That's what I got you this afternoon...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u160	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u161	She then made it clear in response to factual questions that there were no civilian casualties. Afterwards, it turns out that there have been more than 70 attacks. To be honest, I would like to call that a lie, but let us not talk about the word, because the matter is serious enough. I am therefore very curious to see how the Minister now qualifies how she has been informed in the transfer file, because I can assume that this terrible incident has also been raised when you took office as Minister. You also write yourself in your report that you have been informed and that you have been informed of cases of possible civilian casualties. It seems very strange to me... No, let me do it in asking. Did you know on your transfer... I mean, when you became Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u162	Stand down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u163	...not of these large numbers of civilian casualties? Weren't you informed about that at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u164	I have told you that I have been briefed, not as detailed as you now imagine. I've been briefed on the main points. I'll be further informed about it later when I was able to report the D.A.'s facts to your Chamber. I have also indicated this in your direction. But I'm just responsible. I don't know what you're implying. I do know that you were alderman, just like I was mayor. You'll have a transfer file and then you'll fly right away. You have to get to work right away, and you'll be further informed piece by piece. So I was aware of the fact that civilian casualties had occurred, just as you were probably aware of a number of facts in a previous life. The details will come later. There's no other way, because you can't do it all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u165	I do not want to draw too much from my own experience, because that is not what this debate is about. But it is very common for a transfer dossier to discuss matters which are serious and which could be addressed to the Minister in her capacity as minister. I don't really know the variant that a predecessor says: "Yes, there are still some things in the pipeline. Well, you'll hear it again when it comes to it." I don't know that variant personally, and I would think it was a very strange one. That also says something about the functioning of the Ministry. So I am very curious if you could give me a more precise description of what information you had at the time you became Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u166	I didn't have any detailed information. I was informed that there were civilian casualties, but not in detail. Shortly afterwards, I was further informed about this and I indicated that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u167	I'm aware it's the third time, Mr. Chairman. It can't be, hopefully, or at least it can't be that within the Ministry more than 70 civilian victims are actually named in a transfer file as a detail? That's not how you got it, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u168	I'm sticking to the answer I gave. I have just been briefed on the main points, and those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u169	You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Karabulut. I'm going to see Mrs. Belhaj first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u170	Mr President, thank you. As a result of the Minister's first reaction, there are two things I am curious about. You state in your letter and in the factual account that your predecessor was briefed on 9 June. I'd like to know how the Minister knows she's been briefed. Has there been a memo from which you can see that she has been explicitly heard: pay attention, we have heard from the Americans that it is about 70 civilian casualties? Is there a record of that? The same is true of your transfer file. I understand that there are a lot of details involved, but I cannot imagine that someone in the Ministry has forgotten to tell you what the important highlights are, what are sensitive subjects and that there are two motions from the Chamber that say you need to be transparent, which has not been said: pay attention, we noted this later. I would like an answer to both these questions. I would like to know what it was like in your transfer file, because in the facts you say'main points'. I do not know what a main line is, so my question is whether you could perhaps show us in this debate what is'main lines'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u171	First, the question of what has been briefed to my predecessor. That was just a briefing on the situation that had arisen after the bombing in Hawija: the target, the bomb factory had been hit and there was collateral damage and civilian casualties. I've never only talked about collateral damage. I want that misunderstanding out of here, too. I've always talked about collateral damage and civilian casualties. My predecessor has just been briefed in our briefing room by the people who knew something about it at the time, including the progress of the initial research that CENTCOM has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u172	Mr President, on this point immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u173	Was the minister ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u174	Well, no, that was the first part. Then the second part. I do not know exactly what was in my transfer file, but I do know that it was very broad. In doing so, I was aware of the fact that civilian casualties had occurred and that, of course, it is risky work that we are doing in that anti-ISIS coalition. I will be there later, I have just told you that, before I said anything about the State's Attorney's Office between February and April. By the way, it wouldn't have mattered. That's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u175	Well, it matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u176	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. It wouldn't have mattered for the communication towards your Chamber or the outside world. Because we flew over Iraq and Syria from Jordan, we didn't say anything about it because of the three reasons I mentioned: operational security, human security and national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u177	That's the point. It does matter to us and it listens very closely. If we are asking for a factual account, I think it is entirely right to know exactly what the facts are from. To be honest, I find it fairly general on certain points. You say Mrs Hennis had a technical briefing. Is that a memo or a report made of it? Is there anywhere... Let me put it this way: have you seen somewhere in black and white that Minister Hennis has indeed read that 70 civilian casualties have occurred?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u178	There's just been a briefing. At that time, on 9 June, there was not necessarily the figure 70, but there was much more collateral damage that the pilots themselves saw immediately than they could have expected on the basis of the information available, and that there were probably many civilian casualties. Those were ordinary citizens, so to speak, and IS'ers who were present and died.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u179	It listens very closely. If a minister indicates that a previous minister has been informed and we conclude that she lied or did not inform us properly, that is quite something. So, please, may I ask the Minister that this may also be done later in order to have a good black-and-white office for the Chamber to what extent the Minister himself was told on 19 or 15 June by her official summit that it was about 70 civilian casualties and/or why the Minister in the letter of 23 June might have been 26 June, so eleven days later, decides to say that nothing actually happened? That's the first thing. The second is your transfer file. I understand you don't remember that now, but you did ask: guys, why don't you look up the transfer folder and let me see if there was 70 in it or not? So my question to the Minister is also: if she doesn't know now, will she just let us find out if it was literally in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u180	I'll do the second. I don't know. I don't know. I've already said that in your direction. On the first point: Mrs Hennis was simply briefed on the incident, including the fact that there was a lot of damage. But the briefing to Mrs Hennis on 9 June 2015 has the classified secret, so I can't say any more about that. I can't give you that in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u181	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u182	That's the point. It's all public now, so all the information that was in there at the time doesn't seem top secret to me anymore. However, I would ask the Minister to have someone look into whether it was literally there. The powerpoint presentations are widely known by the Defense Department. The same goes for your promise to have your transfer file searched for. Do you still want the Chamber to send in? As far as I am concerned, this can also be done by e-mail. Because it does listen closely when it comes to the question of how things could have happened in this way and who, in the end, has been responsible for the fact that we are now standing here with each other and feel a little cheated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u183	Which was wrong, because I think that's good to know... I understand the issue of civilian casualties. What was written in the answers to the factual questions on 23 June? It states that as far as was known at that time, there was no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties. The fact that it says that there was no Dutch involvement is not true, because the Netherlands was the only one flying there. That's what I reported. We were the only ones who carried out that bombing. That is why I can inform your Chamber, because we were the only ones who carried out that bombing. I can't just reveal information from another country here, but I can give you information from the Netherlands. So just that part of the sentence is just not right. That is factually incorrect. I came across that last Friday and then I thought: all I can do is write it down in the letter about being more transparent, which I already had in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u184	Really last but not least, Mr. Chairman. I want to help the Minister to clarify things. I'm asking very specific questions. I asked her to pick out two things for me and preferably for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u185	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u186	Is the answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u187	I think the Minister has already promised that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u188	I already said yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u189	For the second time, because I think that is relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u190	Yes. I will also look at the classification, because I have indicated that the classification is "secret." The classification isn't necessarily ours. It's CENTCOM's sometimes. That means I can't always just reveal everything in your direction. You know that, too. I'll look into it and I'll deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u191	I have just finished my contribution by saying that the facts that we have asked for may have raised more questions than have answered them. I feel the same way a little after the Minister's introductory remarks. The Minister indicated that she was not informed until last Friday. In the first term, all parties, from left to right, opposition and coalition, expressed their surprise at the fact that, after the end of the mission, it was still 11 months before we received the letter this week. How is it that the fact that the Minister was only informed last Friday is not reflected in the facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u192	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u193	It's not in the facts. And linked to that: who gave you that information? Last Friday is not only 11 months after the end of the mission, but also 24 months after the Minister has received the first information in the transfer file. How is it that this crucial information is not in the facts? Who gave you that information? Why didn't you ask yourself about that? If you've known about something for two years, don't you want to know what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u194	There's been a misunderstanding here. Last Friday I was not aware of the fact that my predecessor misinformed the Chamber. That's the only thing new to me last Friday. That's what it says. I will look it up in a moment, but that is the only thing I said to you: I heard that last Friday. Of course, it's a big deal when you hear it like that. That was also the misunderstanding Mrs Diks had in her first term. I didn't know that before. As I said in my general introduction, I chose to amend the letter of Parliament which I already had, in which I wanted to give you an open mind about these two incidents, about these two bombings for which the Netherlands is responsible. I indicated in that letter that what my predecessor had written was incorrect. That's what I wrote in my Monday letter. So I was not informed of this myself until last Friday when I did a final check to see if all the data were correct. We had done a final check at the department to see if everything was right, and then we ran into this. So I couldn't inform you sooner. I have chosen the first moment I had to inform you that my predecessor has misinformed the Chamber. Of course, that's not a good message, but that's just the fact. I'm sticking to the fact too, because actually that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u195	The Minister has only answered the first part of my question, so I will respond to that first. I've got the story of the facts in front of me here the way we got it. It contains a few phrases about October 2019, namely: "In response to recent reports in the media about possible Dutch involvement in an air strike in Iraq, a letter dated 18 October stated that your Chamber will be further informed about the feasibility of more transparency about potential civilian casualties in air strikes in the near future." Last Friday it was October 31st. The fact story doesn't say anything about last Friday. The facts only say that the Chamber will be informed in November about the feasibility of greater transparency on potential civilian casualties in air strikes. That's last Monday's letter. So I'm gonna ask you again. It's crucial information. Each group here in the Chamber has expressed its surprise that after we quit the mission it had to take eleven months for this information to come to the table. The Minister himself has known for two years that there has been civilian casualties. How can it be that only last Friday, perhaps at the festive fetch of the first F-35...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u196	That was Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u197	...in Leeuwarden, which has come to information? Why wasn't that asked before? Why isn't it in the facts? And who didn't give you that information until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u198	I do not have the letter of the Chamber at hand now, perhaps someone can give it to me, but the letter of 4 November states on page 9 that I was informed about it last Friday. So it's not the facts of the case, it's the letter of Parliament that says this. I did let you know that in your direction. The phrase that says I'm informed is not about the civilian casualties. That's not what I'm talking about. From further research, which was done because we wanted to inform your Chamber, it emerged that my predecessor misinformed your Chamber on 23 June 2015. That's what I didn't know until last Friday. That's gotta be clip-and-ready. That's the only thing new to me last Friday. I have therefore chosen to amend and write that in my letter of office, so that you are aware of it, no matter how annoying it may be, no matter how complicated and difficult and annoying it may be. 'Cause that's just it. In that sense, it is an annoying matter. The fact that there were civilian casualties was something I did mention earlier myself in your direction. I reported this in April 2018, despite the fact that we were flying back then. That's in the facts. We started flying again over Iraq and part of Syria on 1 January 2018 until 31 December 2018. So until 1 January 2019, I informed your Chamber of the fact that there were civilian casualties. I have informed you about these four cases in the progress report. That's all I could say about it, but what I could say about it was that the D.A. had done a fact-finding on it. I remember very well that your Chamber was also very happy that I could say something about that at the time, because the trial we have to see if anything has gone wrong in criminal law is actually a very good and constitutional process. So I've informed you about that a long time ago. I couldn't say anything else that year. From 2019 I started thinking about how we could do it differently. In May 2019 I spoke to your Chamber about this. Then I received Mrs Karabulut's entire list. I don't know if Mrs. Diks and you were behind that, too. We went to look at that list. We spoke to Airwars. Then we started that process to talk to the coalition, all with the aim of also saying so in my letter to inform you about more transparency about civilian casualties around the summer. I sent you a reprieve letter on this because, unfortunately, it didn't work out. I had to have a number of talks, including in the coalition, which took longer. I heard a number of members of your Chamber say: you were forced by the publications. That is by no means the case, because I had already started looking in January 2019 and I talked to you about it in May. I sent you letters about it. Unfortunately, I could not say anything about it earlier than last Monday, but I promised you that I would do it for the budget, and I succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u199	I shall return to the letter and the new openness promised by the Minister. I shall now turn to one question that has stuck. No matter how you turn it, it's about important, crucial information that the minister just got to hear on Friday. Why not Friday? Surely it is not the case that once someone with a big leaf blower went through the archives of the Defense Department, which meant that everything had to be regrouped and that lasted months and years? How is it that this crucial information was only shared with the Minister last Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u200	Unlike Mr Kerstens' assumption, I wanted to make sure that we had collected everything. So we have indeed asked and looked at what has been said in recent years. Because it was a big change; that is what Mr Kerstens himself says. We wanted to report transparently on two cases where the Netherlands is also responsible for the civilian victims. We stand for that responsibility. That was made public in that letter. But you have to do it very carefully. You also need to know exactly what was said about when. That has indeed resulted in that coming out last week and that I was informed about it last Friday, I remember exactly when I came back from the Council of Ministers. I can't make it prettier for you. That was the first time I heard about it. At that time, I decided to adapt my letter on transparency to that and to let you know. Otherwise, you probably wouldn't have read it like that in the letter, nor in the facts. That was a decision of my own, because I think it is important for your Chamber to be properly informed at all times, and that was not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u201	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u202	Yes, Chairman, finally. Isn't it insane that it took two years to get out or eleven months to get out of the mission? Well, it's not a snap. It's quite a lot, the information you only heard about your predecessor on Friday. If you go through the archives, isn't this something that comes up? This discussion is about a lot of things. Surely it can't be that if a minister thinks in a manner of speaking on a Thursday evening, "see if there's anything else," someone lifts a rug and then that crucial information suddenly comes out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u203	I think that, as annoying as I am, it is very annoying that we should be glad that this has come out because of our people's research and that I have reported it to you, even though 'happy' now sounds very crazy. But of course the research was on something very different, because we were seeing each other to see if we could be transparent about civilian victims who are due to Dutch flies. That was, of course, the purpose of the investigation; it was designed for that purpose and I wanted to inform your Chamber about this before the budget procedure, because I promised you that. So you shouldn't confuse those two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u204	I very much appreciate the Minister's acknowledgement that the Chamber has been misinformed and that she is also apologizing. I think that's a very valuable step. The fact that the Minister, right after she found out that there was wrong information, that she was looking for openness to the Chamber and also to the media, is a sign that she wants to do better. The question I would like to ask is about the consequences of misinformation at the time. The Minister says very clearly: for the sake of national, operational and individual safety, including pilots and even the international playing field, there is no mention of the ongoing operations. Has it been wrongly informed by your predecessor that the operation, the nation, individual pilots or international relations have been compromised by this misinformation by the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u205	I don't think so, but it would just have been better to stick to what we do in general, which is that we just don't say anything during an ongoing operation, no matter how complicated it is. I said in my letter that I also want to see if we can do this differently in the future, but we have to think very carefully with each other, because in the end I am responsible for the people involved. I have to stand for that, but I don't think there's been any harm there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u206	Let's see. First Mr Stoffer, then Mrs Van Kooten, then Mr Voordewind and then Mrs Karabulut, because they have not yet been.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u207	I thought Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen might have been sooner, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u208	Oh, it could be. That's good. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u209	Thank you. I don't quite understand. The statements of former Minister Hennis were in response to public parliamentary questions. They're just in the archives. You can also enter keywords these days, very modern. But I assume that the new Secretary of Defense has a whole file, including the parliamentary questions asked, including this question about civilian casualties, which has been answered wrongly. The Minister himself says: we are the ones who have flown there; so civilian casualties could only be caused by the Netherlands. So I do not quite understand why the Minister says that she did not know this until last Friday and that she does not look at these questions until after all the commotion in the publicity. I find that very special.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u210	You really need to keep those two things apart. Those two things run all the time. I knew about the civilian casualties, but we wouldn't say anything about that, because that was the policy. The policy was: as long as we fly, we don't say anything about the operation because of operational security, because of human security and because of national security. What I established last Friday is that your room... I've reported to you about Hawija; that's what this letter of inquiry is about. In the progress report on 23 June, the Court of Auditors stated that "as far as known, no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties had occurred at that time." And that's just wrong, because the Netherlands was the only one that flew Hawija that night. It is therefore factually incorrect what has been said in your direction. I didn't hide it; I reported it the first time I knew it. Friday I knew and I reported it to you in my letter last Monday. That is very annoying and I apologize for that, because I am also responsible for what my predecessor is doing, but that is the reality. Those two things are mixed up all the time, but they have to keep the members of your Chamber apart. This is the only really nasty thing that came forward last Friday, which made me have to include something extra in my letter. I would simply have liked to inform you, as I promised, after careful examination, after international talks and after talks with the kites, that we, as the Netherlands, have been responsible for civilian casualties in two operations, no matter how horrible and careful the process has been, as Mr Bosman said. That was the purpose of this letter. Now there had to be something extra in that letter, namely the fact that my predecessor misinformed your Chamber. I am, of course, also responsible for this question, and I am not running away from it. My people just ran into that during that investigation, and I know that since last Friday, no matter how annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u211	I think it is very special that the Minister should say this. It is precisely because the Minister is responsible for the way in which her predecessor communicated this to the Chamber that it is very special that she says that she has only known since last Friday. It has come to Parliament's questions and it has even come to a plenary debate. And yesterday's NRC interview asked you the rather broad and clear question: when did you hear about the attack and its consequences? You replied: in the briefings after I took office as Minister at the end of October 2017; I don't remember exactly when. The next question asked in the interview was: didn't you think that this should go out as soon as possible? You replied: I wish I could, but I had to act carefully. Then it is strange that, if you knew about the civilian casualties, if you knew how precarious this subject is and if you knew how responsible you were for the way in which your predecessor communicated it to the Chamber, you would only look last Friday for how it was communicated to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u212	Now Mrs Arissen is confusing these two things again. I knew about the civilian casualties. You referred to the passage in the letter about this, and I explained to you how that went. So I knew that, but I wouldn't say anything about that. I took office on October 26th. I remember when we first had the declaration of government and then I went on a journey, because I had to go straight to the Northern Group; I remember that well. Then I did those briefings. So there's no misunderstanding, really no misunderstanding. I've been briefed on the main issues, and I knew that. I could only say nothing in the direction of your Chamber, because from January 2018 we flew over Iraq and Syria with F-16s until the end of December 2018. And then the said policy applies, because of operational security and human security, but also because of the home front. That's what kept up with me from the conversation with the kites. It was also important for the home front that we didn't say anything about it. That's two different things. What I have heard about Mrs Hennis, my predecessor in office, is that she misinformed the Chamber on that point, because the Netherlands was the only one flying there, I do not know until last Friday. But I did know about the civilian casualties. But she wouldn't have said that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u213	That has been said a few times. Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u214	So I understand that because you apparently only found out on Friday that the Netherlands was the only one flying there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u215	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u216	But how come you didn't figure that out? I really don't understand. This is about public parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u217	We knew that we were the only ones who had flown there in Hawija, but it is normal, Mrs Arissen, that we do not say anything about our operations as long as we fly. But that is why what was written by my predecessor in the answers to the factual questions on 23 June is wrong in that sense, because it was true that there was Dutch involvement. So it's just factually incorrect. All I could do when I came across that was just communicate openly with your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u218	I'd let you have questions, but it's gonna be a repeat, actually. I'm looking at Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u219	I have a question that, I think, is just a little different, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u220	Well, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u221	If the Minister says she didn't know until last Friday that the Chamber was wrongly informed, I believe that. I also appreciate the Minister's apologizing. I understand that with all these transfers and moments before that, it doesn't come into your house. But if my colleague standing next to me, Mrs Karabulut, asks questions about the same subject, then there must be something about it in the Ministry. Perhaps it wasn't known to the minister, but the ministry must have people around who will see what has been done in the past and give answers with which the Chamber hasn't been properly informed? One: Was it known at the Ministry? Two: if so, why didn't it come up until the end of last week and not much earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u222	That's a bit of the same question, but in a different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u223	Look, these answers were written in June 2015. As Mrs Belhaj has also asked, this letter has been signed by several rulers, and I will return to that in my replies. That just doesn't seem right. After that, it didn't come up. That's just what I actually need to establish. I can't make it prettier. In fact, I have to say it didn't come up sooner. The first possible moment I knew, I told you. The debates I had with Mrs Karabulut, and with you, on transparency were always about other things. For example, it was about whether I dared to look at what other countries are doing and what Airwars is saying. At that time, I said that I have been much more transparent. You know that, because in 2018 I did report operations on the number of flights and the number of bombs thrown when bombs were bombed. That's what the questions were about. These were not about actual replies given in 2015. They were about policy. That's what we talked about. When you talk about policy at the time, I don't think it's so crazy that there wasn't a very specific look at whether an answer to a factual question was consistent with reality. I was looking forward with you and I think we wanted to improve or change the policy together. That's actually what you want. It couldn't be at that time. Then I said: the first moment that it can... As Mr Voordewind said, I myself was and am in favour of greater transparency. I have indicated in my general introduction why I think it is important, also for the kites. I can only conclude that we talked about policy, looked forward and did not look back on these things. The first time I heard it, I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u224	The Minister is quite right about the content. My question is actually very specific. Wasn't there anyone at the Ministry until Friday who knew the Chamber was misinformed? All I need is a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u225	It didn't turn out to be me. Whether no one knew is absolutely absolute. In any case, those who did the research for me found out last Friday. That's when it ended up with me. You can imagine that we were all very annoyed at the time. In the end, we chose to do so, and I also talked to your President about this in order to amend the letter of Parliament to that effect. All I could do then was mention it, no matter how horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u226	It is clear that we have been misinformed. You can think of different terms for that. The Minister says that now equestrian. She is also responsible for her predecessor. That's all clear. My important question is an organizational question. How is it that this mistake was made by the Ministry? There have been officials who have prepared the answers to the actual questions. There have been ministers who have watched. My question is how it is possible for the Ministry to make such a mistake, when it has always been said: we do not give any information about it. Here, it was hard to deny that this was the case. That's what I'm really worried about. Because if the Ministry allows to give wrong information, when are we perhaps not yet fully informed? I'd like to know how that happened. Maybe the Minister doesn't know the answer, because she wasn't there at the time. But I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u227	You've been misinformed. I think it's good to keep that in mind. It's been wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u228	We've been misinformed. We've really been misinformed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u229	Yeah, wrong. I thought you said "not completely." Oh, did you say "wrong"? Oh, then I just didn't hear you right. So you are wrong, misinformed in a letter signed by several people. Because it was a progress report. Maybe that question can be answered right away. This was reflected in a progress report on the missions. That is a letter signed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Koenders, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Ploumen and the Minister for Defence, in this case Mrs Hennis. So that's a letter signed by several people. I think it's good that we realize that. There's something in there that's factually incorrect. How is that possible? I can only speculate on that. All I can say is that at least there's someone who hasn't thought enough. Because we operated, we didn't say anything. That should've just been there. But I can't speculate on that. Just as you don't know, I don't know. That's something we won't know so soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u230	I understand that, but this is one of the important, crucial questions. 'Cause this is where the mistake was made. So there were several officials who went over that text and then there were 'what is it?' We have four ministers who have also had to go through that text. And so they all agreed to a text which was factually incorrect and which the Chamber thus misinformed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u231	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u232	I'd like to know how this went so badly in the system. Because if that is not corrected and if we do not figure it out properly, who is telling us that we are not being misinformed again, even by four ministers? That's my first question. Then there's my second question. The Minister has been informed. The Minister knew this. She's been personally briefed. So it can't be that that information wasn't there. My second question concerns the fact that there is another six months between the fact that it has happened and the moment that the D.A.'s office has carried out an investigation. It happens in June and it is only in January that the public prosecutor is asked to investigate it further. Why'd you sit in there for six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u233	First of all, I'm just sticking to the facts. I think that's the most important thing. I have actually found that on 15 June there was a report by CENTCOM, an initial report, which mentions civilian casualties and Dutch involvement. Because the Netherlands was the only one that flew Hawija. My predecessor was actually briefed on 9 June. It's been established. The Minister... I have to say to the ministers in this case, because it is about that letter. Then I answered Mrs Belhaj's question right away. On 23 June the Ministers misinformed the Chamber. I just apologized for that today. That's all I can do. 'Cause I just found out last Friday that it was factually incorrect. That's all I can do. We figured it out. This is what it is. These are the facts. We had the report. One should have known, but it wouldn't have mattered for the information in the direction of the Chamber. Because even then there was no communication with the Chamber about what had happened. It would have always been said, as Mr Bosman and you yourself said: we will not say anything as long as we operate, because of human security, operational security and state security. That's what it should have been. This just wasn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u234	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. That's not what I'm talking about. We all know that that has gone wrong and that we have been misinformed. It was the trial that mattered to me. I don't know if that's traceable, but I'd appreciate that. Somewhere there's been a system error. Somewhere, either the Minister has continued and attached this to those texts or it has been an official. But there's been a system error somewhere. Anyway, the minister says it's hard to figure out. However, I would like to point out to the Minister that we cannot afford this kind of system error in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u235	Sure. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u236	The second question was about the six-month gap at the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u237	The D.A.'s office is, of course, about his own investigation. It's independent, so it does its own fact-finding. I assume that Mr Voordewind knows how the system works. An After Action Report is being made. I know that your Chamber has been briefed, but perhaps with many previous Members of Parliament, on how the system of targeting a kite works at all. This means that information is collected very carefully. There's an after action report. If it is thought that there is collateral damage or civilian casualties, if I combine both of them, then the Deputy Prosecutor will act and there will be a report to the Public Prosecutor. That's about his own time course in the fact-finding. From the moment I arrived, I asked if I could say anything about it, because that was also a question from your Chamber, I remember. I wanted to, and I know you've asked me if I could say anything about it. This was the moment we could say something about it. Then the D.A. could say something about it. As soon as I could, in April 2018, I informed your Chamber that there was no criminal offence found and that, in that sense, the actions of our pilots were legally conducted in four cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u238	I'm still working on the first round. Mr. Bosman hasn't come yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u239	I would like to refer to the Minister's statement that we do not make statements as long as the mission is ongoing. I have here the progress report on the Dutch contribution to the fight against ISIS, of 13 April 2018. All four events are mentioned in detail. Is that a policy change? Was that a specific choice? They're all over the place. Then why was that done, on the basis of the transparency that still had to be examined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u240	That is the report from the prosecution, which you are now quoting, and I have just answered it in the direction of Mr Voordewind. There were questions from the Chamber about the operation in 2015. You kept asking me, if you can say anything about it, if anything comes back from the D.A.'s office, do it in our direction. From the beginning, your room asked me to. And then I said, if I can do that, I will. This was the moment I could say something about that, so the DA looked into those cases. It had seen that nothing was not lawful and nothing criminal. I remember your Chamber saying, please, if you can say anything about that. And then we said something about it in that progress report. I do know that we flew back then, that's certainly true, so we didn't say anything about operations we were still doing at the time, but this is the resolution of what happened in 2015, where there could be civilian casualties. That was the first time I could report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u241	That's special. Then why was that the first moment? Apparently, that's after the D.A.'s ruling, but in principle, the Chamber can simply be informed. I do have one more question about it. The first case involved an attack by F-16s on a facility of the IEDs. And then there is the last sentence: "It is very likely that civilian casualties have occurred during this attack."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u242	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u243	The second case is that an alleged headquarters of ISIS has been attacked. The last sentence is: "Citizens were killed in this attack." Why is the choice of words different in the first case, because you, too, had the CENTCOM letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u244	Sure. CENTCOM used for Hawija "credible" and we translate that into Dutch as "very likely." The only thing we have always done is to tell you exactly what CENTCOM says. CENTCOM has never done anything but "probably" indicate "credible" in our direction, so that's what we've done. I take over the exact terms in your direction, but then translated into Dutch, otherwise I will get into a fight with the chairman of the committee or the chairman of the Chamber. That's why it says "very likely" everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u245	This was the first moment that could be briefed. That's linked to the D.A.'s office, not the facts. But when it comes to the safety of the kites, it wasn't the time to release that information. That should happen after the surgery's over. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u246	It has been reported here that the D.A. has investigated legality in those reports. The D.A.'s office did a fact-finding. Nothing criminal has happened, so there was no reason to assume that anything else had to happen. That could have been said at the time. That was just the settlement of the D.A.'s case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u247	We are talking about informing the Chamber and about the civilian casualties. I'd like to take a look at the civilian casualties. We know that that fatal bombing took place on 3 June. On 9 June, six days later, the ministry was briefed by CENTCOM, so that's when the ministry knew about it. That was within a week. And on June 15, less than two weeks after the bombing, that final report was there. That's when the Ministry knew there were civilian casualties. At that time, I think the Ministry was looking into whether it all happened carefully. I don't mean to sound cynical, but there were 100 wounded and 70 dead. That must have happened very carefully, but when the Ministry, a week after the bombing, knew that civilians had been killed and wounded, what action was taken not only to see if it had happened carefully, but also what could be done to help the civilian victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u248	Now Mr. Wassenberg has a very strange picture of what happened there. It's really hardcore ISIS territory. There weren't any people out there to look at. Even our Marines weren't allowed in that part. Besides, we were still operating there. So we were just working together. We flew there, we were there on the ground. At a time when we know that there is collateral damage and civilian casualties, I am linking them together, because a lot of buildings have collapsed; it was originally an industrial area that was attacked; you are going to investigate it, as I have just explained. But that's all we're doing, because in a coalition context, we're looking at it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u249	I know where this is going on. I know it's hardcore IS area. I know the horrors of ISIS. But I find it too easy to say... I'm not saying you have to send some Red Cruisers there either. But if the Ministry knows there's been damage, that there are hundreds of wounded, that there are dozens of dead, haven't they done anything at all? Did the Ministry say that this is a very dangerous area, so we're just gonna see if it happened carefully? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u250	In a coalition context, we operate with each other. Then we'll see what's going on, what the facts are. Then we'll do some research. That'll be investigated by the D.A.'s office. That's what happened. In addition, we do a number of other things with the coalition. But you shouldn't think there are all kinds of actions at such a time. What would you expect us to do, look down there on the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u251	When were these actions taken, if I may ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u252	What we did was look at each other: what's the effect? That's what we were investigating. The numbers of civilian casualties that were also at the time are all from public sources that have published about them, not from their own perception. That's how it's done and how it's done. Eventually, our work was fighting ISIS. Before that, we were there. As horrible as it is that so many civilian casualties have been suffered, that is the work we did there: fighting ISIS, in the air and in part on the ground, in Iraq. In Iraq, we are still on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u253	Finally. The Minister himself said that we did not consider civilian casualties. They weren't calculated. Then it's impossible for so many people to be killed and nothing happens at all. You are simply saying: it is a dangerous area, we are going to bomb and if civilian casualties are going to fall, that is what happened in two bombings, then so be it; then we are just going to see if it all went according to the rules. I think that's cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u254	Mr Wassenberg has a very strange... It was war there, war against ISIS. What we did in a coalition was... In Monday's letter, I made public two cases for which we alone, as the Netherlands, are responsible, because we can only make it public if we are responsible and we were in Hawija. In itself, the process of research into the purpose on which you base yourself in a coalition has gone well, as has also been looked at, but we have to note that it was simply not complete for Hawija, because there was much more in that bomb factory than we could ever have imagined. For Mosul, the information was just wrong. That's what we indicated in this letter. It's terrible that it happened, but that's what we had to do, not yet... The kites have done their job well, as a number of members of your Chamber said. Because that was their job: to disable ISIS. ISIS is responsible for the fact that there was so much in that bomb factory. It was horrible what was in there. In the end, this has caused all the collateral damage and civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u255	I would like to go back to the moment when the Minister had just taken office and thus got a general picture of what was going on in the Defense Department. I have the following question to the Minister. You read that file. When you've finished, will you ask if there are any bodies left in the closet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u256	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u257	Then what was the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u258	Not this, as you understand, because I heard this last Friday and I immediately informed you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u259	But it turned out, then, that we now know that there was a brilliant bomb in that file, namely that your predecessor had not told the truth, many times even, in response to questions from the Chamber about those civilian victims. Who in your official support would you expect him to report it to you, self-employed or especially if you ask about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u260	Sorry, I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u261	Who in your official organization should report to you, self-righteous movement or at least if you ask, that there is such a brittle bomb in that file?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u262	That should just come up when you have such a general briefing and talk about it with each other. Eventually, the department's leadership is responsible for knowing that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u263	Then do you agree with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u264	Maybe it's good to speak better in the microphone. It's a shame, because we hear almost nothing. I'll be up in the volume just a little bit, hoping it'll be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u265	I hope it's better this way. Do you think the administration has been seriously flawed in your direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u266	I am extremely sorry that I have only been aware of this since last Friday, by way of good research by my and our people, who have invented it. That's all I really want to say about it. At that time, I felt I should inform you of this, and I did so in a letter which should be about something else. That topic was bad enough, because actually that letter would be about those two operations that we were transparent about, with a glimpse into the future. But it's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u267	Finally. What is the minister in charge of the department going to do to prevent the official summit ever again from scoring the same blunder against a ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u268	You may also look at other departments: information systems and departments, which is a rather complicated process. This applies to several departments. But I think that everyone in our department is now more than aware of the fact that something like this should no longer be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u269	Finally, really. I notice that when we talk to top officials in, for example, a technical briefing, they always get to give all the answers up to three digits behind the decimal place. And in such an essential case, such a brittle bomb in the file, no one knows what to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u270	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u271	I see Mrs Karabulut, I see Mrs Diks, I see Mrs Belhaj and I see Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. You have spoken extensively and asked questions. So if there's really a question that's not a repeat of previous questions, then I'll allow it. Otherwise, I'd like to suggest that the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u272	I was working on the introduction. But a lot of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u273	Yeah, exactly. That's usually the way it is. Mrs Karabulut, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u274	Finally, on this point. So recapitulating: the minister was informed about the civilian victims from the very beginning, when she arrived. Not about the lies. They lasted until last Friday. Even after two weeks of publication of this incident, the Minister was not aware that the Chamber was misinformed several times in 2015. The situation is serious. If this is the state of the department, if this is the way we and the minister are informed, it's much worse than I thought. My question concerns the following. The Minister also says all the time: and if we knew anything, we were not supposed to talk about it. But in 2018 I asked the Minister if the first incident described in the letter of 13 April 2018 concerned the Hawija incident. At that time, the Minister said that she loved open and transparent communication, but then did not communicate the answer. Why did she withhold this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u275	All I could say was that the D.A. had looked at these four cases. It was the first time that we have said anything about this, because that has always been your question: what is the situation now? That is the same little debate I had with Mr Bosman. All I could say at that time was that there were four cases and there were two cases of civilian casualties. I couldn't say more about that at the time. That was the general line we took because we flew there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u276	You're almost gonna wonder why the D.A. is doing any research, if we weren't supposed to be informed. Of course, there are several ways that lead to Rome. If the Chamber is not informed in this way and information is withheld, then I find the situation even more serious than I initially thought. The Minister could also have chosen not to participate in withholding this information and/or in maintaining lies. The Minister could also have chosen to inform the Chamber confidentially. That didn't happen. Then I have another follow-up question. In April 2018, Olaf Koens of RTL News at the Dutch Air Force Base in Jordan asks the director of Operations Royal Army, the top of the Defense: how many victims have been killed as a result of the Dutch deployment? He replied: I cannot tell you that. The journalist asks: are they all IS fighters? He replied: yes, all IS fighters. Mr. Chairman. Is this the way they say they don't communicate? Is this the way in which Defense deals with us, the People's Assembly, and the people, that we can't know about the secret parts of the war, that lies are even told about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u277	I don't know this case through the press. That's not something that changed in the Chamber. But the line so far was that if we operated in such a complicated area, then within the framework of the security of our staff, also in view of the discussion that would give with the home front and operational and national security, we would say nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u278	It's gonna be a repeat. You have said this repeatedly. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u279	To safety, the facts used and the underlying analysis I come back so much. But I have to say that time and time again information has been deliberately withheld and wrong information has been provided, and that Defence, whether or not in the person of the minister and the defence summit, does communicate the information that suits them, but keeps us from the whole truth. I think that is very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u280	I simply disagree with Mrs Karabulut's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u281	I understand that the Minister is getting a little irritated, because this is actually about the first sentences of her reply, but I still have two questions. I'd actually like to go back to the core. The core is that everyone in this Chamber wants to do everything in their power to ensure the safety of our people on mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u282	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u283	So it's standing policy that no announcements are made about deployment. I agree, also from GroenLinks. On 31 December 2018, the operation ended in Iraq. You knew there was something going on with civilian casualties. All investigations and all information was known in that sense. Then let us not focus on 1 January, but why did you not send the next communication to the Chamber on 2 January? "You may have been misinformed about an operation. I may not know everything yet, but I would like to provide the Chamber with the information you need to be able to make proper assessments." Why didn't you share that information with the Chamber immediately when you could?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u284	Here, too, the two things are getting back together. I'm gonna try again. By the way, I'm not annoyed at all, because I've been out all night and, by the looks of it, so have you. This was indeed my introduction, but of course many other questions have also been asked. This is where the two things get mixed up again. You ask: why didn't you inform the Chamber about that mistake? So I didn't know that mistake!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u285	No, Mr. Chairman, before we repeat ourselves...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u286	You may explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u287	Yeah, I'd love to. Otherwise, we're gonna stick to this. I'm not asking you about anything you didn't know. I agree with all my predecessors who have asked how on earth it is possible that you didn't know there was such a big mistake in your file. That's pretty amazing, I'd say. But that's not the question I have to ask you. You have just indicated that you knew very well that there were civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u288	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u289	Why didn't you communicate that more clearly to the Chamber when the operation was over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u290	I did say something about this in my general introduction, because I indicated that it was also important to be more transparent, but that was a huge deviation from the policy we always pursued. We just didn't say anything about surgeries at the time we were still operating there. Yes, I understand Mrs Diks' question. Also because I had talked to the Chamber about it on a regular basis, because that was before; that is why I have brought that from the Public Prosecutor in your direction, and I have told you about it. I have looked with all the people how and when we could be transparent. We cannot do that simply because we operate in a coalition with 81 countries. That means we have to see if we can do it or not. So it meant that I had to talk about that internationally. Carefulness came first for me, because ultimately, ultimate, I am responsible for those people and for the safety of those people. So we wanted to talk to the kites, to the Air Force, and map it all out. I have already said in my introduction that this has taken me far too long, because I did agree with you that we could be more transparent. I also had three reasons for this, which I mentioned. It just couldn't go any faster. I'm sorry about that, but it just couldn't go any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u291	I'm not satisfied with this anyway. Why not? Because all those names and institutions you mention, such as the pilots of your own defence apparatus and the people of the coalition, are for you all internal parties. In that sense, therefore, there was no reason at all, I think, to wait until the end of the operation to at least have a conversation with your own pilots. That's a very strange variant, isn't it? If you are informed in November 2017 about civilian casualties in an attack for which only the Netherlands could be responsible and simply no one else because we were the only ones flying there, are you going to inform the next day where those pilots are, because you want to know much more about it because it is a huge heavy responsibility that as a minister rests on your shoulders? How come you didn't do it that way, but just sat around for over a year waiting for the operation to end and then, apparently, on 1 or 2 January 2019, to inform the parties around you exactly what this attack was about? I simply cannot imagine that this is the way things are going, and that is why I find it very unbelievable that it would have happened this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u292	That's not how it happened. We also talked about it in 2018 when we flew. When we started talking about what could be, how it should be and how we should be doing it. You now assume that the coalition is something internal. No, those are lands. They're 81 countries. I'm not the Secretary of State, but talking about it with 81 countries has not just been done. I fully agree with Mrs Diks that it has taken too long. That's what I said in the first place. I thought it was too long, but I couldn't do it sooner. What happened to Mr Bosman hits me, too. If you have a policy with each other for so long and can handle it, you don't say anything about it, everyone knows that in your organization and then you have to get used to it that things are different. That means you have to put care first. That was the weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u293	The care had to be directed towards everyone, except the Chamber, if I understand correctly. The information I have received so far in my parliamentary membership about civilian deaths has always been about some civilian deaths. Of course, I do not distinguish between a few or dozen, but you could have thought of it and felt that the Chamber would naturally want to be informed immediately if dozens of civilians were innocently killed by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u294	It's about 2015. We said something about that. There has just been misinformed in your direction at all. I've indicated my weighting. I told you how I looked at it, just to keep you informed. That is really different than before, because I have now given more information. Also in 2018, when we flew. Before that, you couldn't see it. Then you couldn't see how many bombs were thrown. I told you it had to be a careful process. That can weigh different. That's just the way it is. I myself think it might have been quicker, but it's no different. It couldn't go any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u295	Still, there are two things that need to be clarified. I would like the Minister not only to reproach the Chamber by saying: I have just explained it and I have all night. I've got all night, too, but I think this is serious enough. There's a lot of confusion and that confusion doesn't come through the Chamber. The confusion is because of you and the Ministry, by choosing to send such a story of fact. I'll go straight to the content. It might be easier. I appreciate the Minister's statement that she's open to it and that she only had a few months to think about it. But in 2016, on 10 February, a motion was passed by Sjoerdsma, Van Bommel and Voordewind asking the government to work in the international coalition for greater transparency and better accountability. Subsequently, on 21 December 2017, a motion was adopted by Sjoerdsma, Ten Broeke, Voordewind, Van Helvert and Van Rooijen, supported by almost the entire Chamber, inviting the government to report in more detail on the military arms deployment without endangering the military. So, with all due respect, even before you got there, they knew at the Ministry that there were two motions from the Chamber that asked to be carried out. It seems to me that when you said "maybe we should do something with it," it had to be eight months before anything happened. And two: the Airwars reports that are available show that the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom. It's just some kind of traffic light model. You can see exactly on which two parts the Netherlands fails or can do better. It's about the location and the times when bombings took place. You don't need eight months for that. I would like the Minister to be aware of the fact that the Chamber has already made these statements before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u296	One: I would like to come back to the point Mrs Belhaj started with, because there is a misunderstanding. I responded to Mrs. Diks, who thought I was a little irritated. That is by no means the case, because then I said: I am just calm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u297	That's not important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u298	No, but I would like to take it away anyway, otherwise that impression will remain because Mrs Belhaj quotes it. Let me now turn to your points. I am certainly aware of the fact that these motions have been passed. In fact, many more motions have been passed that I have discussed with your Chamber itself. These are from before my arrival, but I am very aware of these motions, because I myself found and I think that I have already explained to you at the beginning that we should be more transparent where we can be and that we should also discuss them with each other. I've discussed that repeatedly in a coalition context when I was there. I don't know if these motions are addressed to the State Department, but I was sure the motions were there, because this is about the State Department and the Defense Department. It's motions of 2017. The same applies to the calls from yourself, Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Diks. That's what I did. In a consultation in 2018 you asked me to see if we could make NATO a much more unambiguous hotline for civilian casualties or for people who are at all by the coalition... That is also the point I made and I have reported back in your direction. So I'm quite aware of that. But not everything that is adopted in the Chamber can ultimately be realized in a coalition context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u299	I notice the Minister sometimes needs a lot of words. She says she had a reason not to have a letter ready and send it to the Chamber on 1 January 2019 and to say "I see how involved you are; I think it is important and I suggest that we do this and do this and that I approach these and these countries" or "here and here are the obstacles." Maybe it was April or June and people were busy. But not two weeks after there was a publication... You do realize that's suspicious, don't you? It's not weird that we think: she had nine or ten months, but now there's going to be a publication and she says she's been wanting to do it all along?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u300	No, because I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u301	Okay. We're getting somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u302	I got right on it. That's what I said to you. I started talking about it. I have also indicated this in a timeline in your direction. I started talking and I talked to the coalition, but it's pretty radical to make such a change acceptable to all people. You can weigh that differently. I understand that you can weigh that differently, but that's the reality. That means I've been actively on the road and I've looked into it. I've already explained to you all that it took too long. But I had indeed started much earlier than after the publication of two weeks ago. That's just what's in the facts. It would have been even better... I sent you a reprieve letter because I had a few things to figure out. I was sorry, because I would have preferred it before the summer or in September. Then I sent you a reprieve letter because I also had to do a number of things internationally. So you know I was busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u303	That's a good thing. Let me just mention one more fact that I think is important. My colleagues also have a connection to that. That's about the letter of 14 April 2018, in which there was some kind of feedback about the Public Prosecutor's Office and about what they did or didn't do. But what I don't understand... You yourself state that Minister Hennis should have known that civilian casualties had occurred, because she had received a report from the Americans from CENTCOM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u304	Us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u305	The Ministry, I'm sorry. So that's on someone's desk, and then they know: when it comes to that, we need to be aware of that. But if you are partially open, I do not understand why you are trying to make it clear to us yourself on 14 April that it was simply a translation of English: "It is very likely that civilian casualties have occurred in this attack." It's possible. But then I don't understand how that relates to the original CENTCOM report from 2015. That's weird, isn't it? You have a report stating that civilian casualties have occurred. That report also informs you that Hennis did not properly inform the Chamber. And then we are two and a half years later in one go and you say: it makes perfect sense to say that it is very likely. That's weird, isn't it? Sorry, weird is weird, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u306	Mr. President, you never let us speak English here, do you? Also in the CENTCOM report mentioned in the June 2015 block, "credible" is highly credible. So there's no difference. That is the term used by CENTCOM. That was both then and that is the point you mention in the first report, the initial report or the initial study, as it even says neatly in Dutch. It also says "very likely." And why is it misinformed? In that text, too, I have just explained to you that the investigation showed that it was credible, according to CENTCOM, that civilian casualties had occurred in this attack involving the Netherlands. The answer to the questions then states that "as far as is known at that time, there had been no Dutch involvement'. And the Netherlands was the only one that flew.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u307	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u308	Let me put it another way: in what report did it say that there were 70 civilian casualties? What time was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u309	I don't think 70 is mentioned in any report. We are talking about a large number of civilian casualties. I will check for you whether the first report also contains 70, but it says that it is highly credible that a large number of civilian casualties have occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u310	Then I do it like this, because it is just confusing for us too, also because the information comes to the Chamber in bulk. Is it possible to give us the first report from CENTCOM, the initial report that was submitted with the communication "most likely civilian casualties" and the second report in the second period, as is the case with my other request? Then we can see a little bit of what's going on. After all, it is no longer confidential, because it is public. If not, how am I supposed to know we're talking about the right number? It's your responsibility to explain to me where that came from, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u311	Sure. The numbers have been made public outside, but not by us. You can't get that CENTCOM report, because it's high-ranking. So I just really can't give that to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u312	Mrs Belhaj, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u313	Is there any other way in which the Minister can let us know in black and white for the second term what was stated in the first in general terms and in the second? In this way we will know whether there was a difference between those two and whether there was a difference between the way in which you received your information and the way in which Minister Hennis got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u314	I'll see how I can put that in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u315	I have one more question about transparency and security. I am pleased that Mrs Belhaj mentioned the motion in which the Chamber is already asking for more transparency about missions, without endangering the military, because I do not fully understand the following. The Minister says that it is also in the interests of the safety of the kites and their families, because she fears repercussions because she has not reported this before. We have now understood that the Minister was willing to report this shortly, or even now. In what sense has security changed, a year after the mission ended, compared to 2018? The kites still have family. You're probably still afraid of repercussions. But nobody asked, "Who exactly are these kites?" I thought you could have informed the Chamber without mentioning any names. That's not an argument, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u316	The argument is that we could look at it when we stopped flying. That's the argument. That's always been the policy. So the moment we stopped flying, we could report more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u317	Mrs. Van Kooten, a shorter question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u318	But it took the Minister almost a year to find out exactly what had happened and what could not be reported to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u319	I just explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u320	Yeah, extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u321	I can perhaps say a few words about Mrs Belhaj's question on that CENTCOM report. So that report was dated 15 June. That report says that, on the basis of public sources, that's good to know, I think there was about 70 deaths. CENTCOM itself did not determine this. They use the same public sources that others use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u322	A very short question, Mrs Diks, and then I shall actually move on to the debate. At least we're already working on it, but then I want the Minister to continue answering the questions you asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u323	Very good. Actually, I have one more question for a while. That is: when did this minister know that there were 70 civilian deaths, or rather more than 70 civilian deaths?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u324	Actually, I didn't realize that until I moved on... I didn't know it right at the beginning, in November, because then I was basically informed. I became aware when I went to look at the cases and said something about the D.A.'s office. That is what I reported to you about in the debate on 13 April 2018, which is in that timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u325	I have to quote from that letter that I don't have in mind. It states that this action in Hawija was most likely about civilian casualties, or a similar sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u326	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u327	So you didn't feel the need to indicate more clearly to the Chamber that dozens of civilian casualties could be involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u328	The same reasoning I just gave applies: we then flew over Iraq and Syria. I understand that you can find all sorts of things, but the reasoning is that, in terms of operational security, human security and national security, we do not make a lot of communications about this outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u329	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u330	Then I have another request. There's still information that's wanted. Information from the transfer file has also been requested. I should therefore like to suggest that we suspend now. I propose that as a point of order to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u331	Oh, you're making an order proposal in between? What exactly is your order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u332	Here's what I'm gonna do. Since there is still some information to be provided on what might have been contained in the transfer file, precise information which the Minister has just promised to the Chamber, I would suggest that, before we talk about everything else, we get this information first and therefore suspend it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u333	I'm also looking at the Minister. Is that information available? I can't estimate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u334	I have no idea. I have not been able to ask questions in between, as you have seen, because I am standing here all the time. So I wouldn't really know. For that, I should at least ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u335	It seems to me that this information can become obsolete while we are here doing the second term of the Chamber. Then the Minister can answer those questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u336	I'll share that. I am also very interested to hear the Minister's reply. She just started her introduction, so I'd like to hear the answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u337	This is pretty crucial information. I would therefore like to include this in the first term of this Chamber. Either the Minister ensures that all those documents, which are probably in the bags, are delivered, or we suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u338	Don't make it too complicated. There's just an order proposal to suspend or not to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u339	Yes. So I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u340	Oh, good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u341	It's a little unusual, but if we don't get those pieces, we won't be able to involve them in the first term. Then you get the crazy situation that you're going to do the debate again in the second term. This is something that has been asked in response to your answers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u342	Yes, but of course that happened in the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u343	Exactly. There's nothing we can do about that. I was thinking, maybe it'll be okay. But now I actually thought: no, that's actually better, because then you can figure it out quietly; then we can get it and we can still involve it in the further answer you give.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u344	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u345	I am therefore in favour of this suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u346	As far as I am concerned, a suspension is not necessary now, and this information can also be provided in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u347	I would like to support the request for suspension, and I would like to receive information on the type of bomb used. That doesn't seem relevant, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u348	That is just a question that has been asked to me and which I will simply answer in the first term. And I can't tell you about that, because it's all classified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u349	But do you support the proposal to suspend, or not? 'Cause I'm just gonna have to count heads right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u350	Yeah, I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u351	I think some people at the Ministry have already heard the question and are already browsing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u352	That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u353	So I would like, as has been proposed, to wait for that to come up...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u354	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u355	...or that the news is coming that there's nothing to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u356	My proposal would be to continue, then to see if the documents are there and then to suspend briefly, followed by a slightly longer second period to include them in that second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u357	Are you also a spokesman for the defence budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u358	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u359	Are you a spokesperson for the defense budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u360	Yeah, both. So that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u361	I support the request for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u362	As far as I'm concerned, there's no need for a suspension right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u363	Mrs. Diks. Oh, no, you made the proposal yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u364	Yeah, but I've heard my colleagues now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u365	And?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u366	It would certainly be possible that, because we can only respond to the Minister's information in the second period, there is still a chance of a third deadline. I don't think that's a logical route either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u367	No, but I'm either suspending or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u368	I support the request to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u369	Then I'm gonna count for a second. A majority is in favour of a suspension, but how long do you really want to suspend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u370	Until the pieces arrive. It's up to the Minister how long that lasts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u371	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u372	I haven't really had any discussions on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u373	Maybe the minister can consult with her backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u374	Yes. Then I'll suspend until 9:30. Then the Minister will know whether or not it is possible to share documents with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u375	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u376	Thank you, Mr President. I now give the answer to the question that Mrs Belhaj asked first and which was then supported by others. She asked me to indicate what I myself had as an introduction file or transfer file. She also asked if I could say anything about the briefing on 9 June and the CENTCOM report. First, the question of what I've had myself. I have already said something about this, namely that I have been informed in broad terms. All that's provided to me is an introductory file. By the way, the introduction files are public, as you may know. They're on the Internet all the time. During those two years, they've been there, including the DOD's introductory file. In addition, there was no further transfer file. So that's all I got. Of course, I have always been briefed, because that is the usual way of doing things in the defence sector; Mrs Belhaj said something about this and Mr Bosman also said it. Those were the usual briefings on current cases. That's actually the usual way that happens to the DOD. As you know, these are classified briefings in a classified area without telephones. So that's what's going on. You can read that whole introduction file. Then you will also see that there is little in it, which is why I say that I have been briefed on this. Then there was the second question, about the briefing on 9 June to my predecessor. That was Mrs Belhaj's question. That briefing is classified as a secret and I can't demarcate it unilaterally, but I can tell you a little bit about it, so I'm going to do that now. I thought I'd meet you with the things I can tell you in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u377	That's okay, but I'd like to cut it up. First, the first part. I'm a little surprised, because "Introduction File" sounds like: how does the DOD work, where does the coffee stand, who works and how do you talk to people? I believe you immediately. I'm gonna look it up later, too. That's great. That's great. That's great. That's great. But I just can't imagine that there hasn't been a folder on your desk containing your predecessor's: pay attention, these are the bigger files, these are the missions out there, these are the flaws, these are the ongoing calls, pay attention. So you haven't had any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u378	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u379	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u380	Then the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u381	Do I understand that that file is not there and that we can all enjoy the file that is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u382	But you always could.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u383	Yeah, we always could. I read that file first when I became a spokesperson. It is very informative, but that was certainly not about transparency about civilian casualties. In addition, has the Minister been informed confidentially and by whom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u384	I just explained that. After that, I have been successfully informed by our people via classified briefings about what we do on a daily basis. I'm responsible for the missions and the operations. That happened in the center where we normally do that and where the members of your room sometimes go, without phones. Those are all classified briefings. That's the usual way we do it in DOD. Mrs Belhaj said so herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u385	And in that confidential briefing, given your previous answer, were you not also briefed on the fact that the Chamber was misinformed in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u386	No, I've known that since November 1st, so last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u387	Friday. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u388	But I have said that many times, Mr President. And that was the second question, so I was going to report...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u389	Yes. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u390	Mr President, I apologise, but the Minister, in a letter to us, states that she has been informed in broad terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u391	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u392	The Minister then indicated that the basis of this information lies in the main thrust of that introductory programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u393	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u394	My question was: at what point were you briefed in general terms? And then you told me that it happened at my introduction, so in the transfer file. That's why I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u395	Yes, Mrs. Diks also asked about the transfer file. That's no more than the introduction file that's public. After that, there were all confidential briefings about the operations. It has to be because I'm responsible for those secret confidential things. Of course, that's the tricky part of this business. That has to do with the safety of our people. You know that, too. The fact that we couldn't talk about it has to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u396	It may sound childish, but what is the difference between an introduction program and a transfer file? In your letter, you state that you were informed on the main points of the transfer. And now you say: I refer to the introduction program. But the introduction programme doesn't say anything about civilian casualties, so that's not the document I actually wanted to know from you. I wanted to know the document or the letter on the basis of which you said it, so that I could know what those main points were with you, because I still do not know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u397	I have just told you that there is nothing but this book of introduction which I have received and which is also public. This is also common in the case of information for directors. I also told you that I was informed through these briefings. Then I'd like to go into...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u398	Perhaps Mrs. Diks, very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u399	You say you've been informed in all kinds of classified briefings. Then my next question is: when were you informed that they were 70 civilian casualties?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u400	I've already answered that question. I replied that this was about when I was digging into the reports from the State's Attorney's office. So that was between February and April. By the way, I have just replied to Mrs Belhaj that the CENTCOM report bases these numbers on public sources, but I will come back to that in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u401	Then I have another question. I still can't imagine that at the time you get such an introductory file I've just said it, but I find it unbelievable, I have to say honestly and what you're now taking off a bit as a kind of public bundle with some information about the functioning of the ministry as such...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u402	You can just read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u403	And you were given classified information. Then apparently only comes up a year and a half later... Or when was it? About a year later, it only surfaced that they were 70 civilian deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u404	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u405	Or after eight months or something, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u406	I joined in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u407	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u408	I say between February and April. So that's a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u409	So then it was April?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u410	That's when I informed you about it. Before that, I was further informed between February and April, I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u411	And then you said: I would really like to be more transparent. But you have not thought that this could be such valuable information for the Chamber that you have separately called the people together to say: I have information here that I want and have to share with you, for it is of such great importance that it can also affect our people's commitment to other places in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u412	That remains the answer, however.That's very annoying that until I went to look at it, the line was that in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, when we flew there again, we didn't report on it in terms of operational, human and national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u413	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u414	Then there is the second part of the question, namely what was going on in the briefing on 9 July. That was the second question. I can't say anything about that because the briefing is highly classified, but I can report a number of things, so that you can get a picture of it in public. So I am going to say a number of things in substance. On 2, 3 June, this bombing took place, and I reported to you about it, and that damage occurred and those civilian victims were killed. I'll take you to trial. Then it was decided to send a staff officer, in this case a lieutenant colonel, from the Operations Board to Qatar. That's where the Joint Force Air Component Commander is. This is covered by CENTCOM. That lieutenant colonel was supposed to pick up information in this case. He got that information, too. There were photos taken with all kinds of planes over Hawija on June 3, because that's what it's all about. That's what you were able to determine the damage. That's what the lieutenant colonel was told. Based on those photos, CENTCOM then determines how much damage there is and how much damage there is. That's what they're looking at. They're looking at what it is. Is it industry? Are they homes, too? It was seen here that houses were involved, even though they were not in the targeting process. If they have been hit, it is likely that civilian casualties have occurred there. The fact that civilian casualties had to have occurred there was also reported orally to him. He took it back with him. That's about what the briefing was about, because it was a lieutenant colonel of the operations. That's the normal way of working to collect information. He was able to report orally that there were civilian casualties in addition to victims among ISIS members, because houses had also been hit. Then came the report of 15 June from CENTCOM which is in our factual overview. It says there are credible civil casualties. So there is not the number, but it is very credible. There are numbers copied from public sources. That's the answer I just gave before the suspension. The number of 70 comes from there. That report contains public sources, such as Al-Jazeera and Reuters. CENTCOM therefore did not establish those numbers in this case. That's the information that was there before the letter of 23 June was written. That was your question. The Netherlands was the only country that flew there. That's why that lieutenant colonel went there. That's why the sentence I read isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u415	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u416	Yes. That is what can be said publicly about it. The CENTCOM report has a high classification. I can't release that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u417	It is very nice that the Minister has now said this out loud. Because that indeed means that the Minister can now say 100% certain that the Ministry, the Minister, knew it in 2015. That was therefore including the public data, namely that there was an indication of 70 civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u418	Yes, because the copied public records of Reuters and Al-Jazeera were in the CENTCOM report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u419	Back to what the minister first heard last Friday. In any case, the conclusion she drew was that my predecessor had misinformed the Chamber. But was what she heard on Friday, well: this and this my predecessor said? Or was it: this and this is the information on which I now draw the conclusion that what she said is not true? Because what the Minister has just said must have been on the agenda somewhere after she took office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u420	I told you about what the briefing was in 2015. Then I come up with what I heard on Friday. When we did another search, we looked at everything. I wanted to report to your Chamber transparently about the fact that the Netherlands was the only country that had flown in Hawija with all the consequences. We talked about that. Everything was looked at then. And then I heard that in response to the actual questions about the progress report, just as it says here with the Chamber of Representatives, on 23 June, after 9 June and 15 June, it was stated that, to the extent known at that time, there was no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties. That is wrong, because a Dutch plane flew there. There were also civilian casualties and this was also stated in the CENTCOM report. Those answers were discussed in that consultation on 30 June because they were cited by Mrs Karabulut or by you, I do not remember, but that is not true. I have already said in my first term, in my general introduction, that it is factually incorrect. I didn't find out until last Friday that those answers were given and that didn't match the data that was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u421	You said that the letter was modified in consultation with the chairman, but I don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u422	Yeah, that was all wrong. I think I was going to say "President." I would have said it right earlier. Then I decided to change the letter. That letter was for the first time about revealing our side about Hawija and about Mosul. It also outlined the process of how it all goes and what normally precedes it et cetera. I still stand for our kites who have done their job and fortunately the members of your Chamber too. Then I said, last Friday: now that I know this, this must be in the letter, no matter how annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u423	I am trying very hard to keep the sharpness in the smokescreen that the Minister is probably subconsciously throwing up by using a lot of words. I thought I just heard her say that what was new to her was the answer in June 2015. I can't imagine that on a file that has such a load. It's about civilian casualties. The point is that the Chamber repeatedly asks for information. It is about information that is not given or cannot be given. I assume that people in your ministry, when they made a file for you, specifically about this, started to put on top the first answers given by your predecessor at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u424	I heard this for the first time last Friday. I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u425	That's been said a few times. Another question? Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u426	I would like to get to the point of security, because the Minister said time and time again that because of security she could not communicate fairly about what she already knew, namely 70 civilian casualties. Then my question is: what makes the security conditions last Friday so that the Minister could communicate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u427	Mr. Chairman. I'm far from being able to communicate honestly. I have always communicated fairly, according to the agreed line quoted by Mr De Roon, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Bosman, that we do not make any announcements about what is happening during operations. That is in the interests of safety in the broad sense and I am not going to repeat them again. That's what policy is. When we stopped flying, in 2019, I had several conversations with Mrs Karabulut and other members of your Chamber. Then I said, as I said in my introduction: I was already more transparent and I will see if we can now respond transparently. That's what I started a trial for, and I just explained it to you before the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u428	That is not an answer to my question, and I shall come back to it in a moment, but it is also not correct. In July 2015, the minister's predecessor, and therefore she is responsible for that policy, informed us very clearly and repeatedly that we would be informed as soon as there was a result of the detection of civilian casualties by the F-16 bombing, and of the compensation. That did not happen, and that is incorrect. The Minister can explain that. In May 2018, the Minister discussed the first case on which an OM investigation turned out to be Hawija, knowing that 70 people were dead. The Minister knew that this attack was likely to have resulted in civilian casualties. In the second case, therefore, despite the security conditions, it has been able to communicate that civilian casualties have occurred. Can the Minister explain the difference between those two?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u429	Sure. In the first case, I use the texts of the CENTCOM report, as explained to Mrs Belhaj. It says so, so it's very likely that civilian casualties have occurred. That's the translation of those texts. There's that public record of Reuters and Al-Jazeera, which shows that it's 70 people. The second case concerned residential houses. That's where the numbers have been established. So that's just another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u430	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u431	But the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u432	It's been established on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u433	But the minister knew. She is hiding behind the security argument for keeping this information from the Chamber for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u434	I just don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u435	That just doesn't add up with what, one, was previously agreed with the House of Representatives and, two, with the facts she communicates herself. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether she can explain to us and/or send us on the basis of which security analysis she has finally decided to communicate this truth or these facts only now. Last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u436	No, Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u437	Monday, yes, after an extensive press conference, indeed. What is the basis of this safety analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u438	That's just what I've explained to you, that we're no longer flying over Iraq and Syria, and that I started talking from January 2019, and that was Mrs Diks' question to see what we could do. That is a careful process, because we departed from the policy we always had and everyone could trust the kites, the coalition, to do it this way. So I had to talk internationally. We had to talk to the kites. We had to find out information. We had to weigh it... Yeah, it seems easy for you, but this is about people. It's about their home front. It's all about the circumstances surrounding it. And it takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u439	Mrs. Karabulut, I'm sorry. I want the Minister to continue, because it is becoming a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u440	This isn't a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u441	No, no, but the questions are repeated and so are the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u442	I have one more question, if you'll allow me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u443	One question. I'll hold you to that, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u444	Talk about security and the whole process. I quote from the NRC's excellent research article: "The informant says to the NOS in September 2019 that he informed the international coalition of the presence of the four trucks full of explosive material just before the attack. He would also have told the Iraqi army about the refugees from the south, who had withdrawn the area."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u445	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u446	What happened to this information? Why, knowing this information, was there at that time chosen for heavy, large bombs, knowing that it would create a double explosion risk and thus potentially civilian casualties? Is it true that the Minister did not know this and has fully relied on the information of the Americans? Or is it different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u447	This is about 2015. Your room has been briefed to my knowledge on the targeting process for pilots. That is a very careful process. That's why I'm going to explain that to you. That has also been explained by Colonel Tankink. Before a target is assigned at all, on the basis of all kinds of information, informants on the ground, drones, aircraft flying over, information collected is looked at what the purpose is and what it looks like. We're looking at it based on what we know. This was an IS bomb factory we attacked. Then circles are drawn: what is the area where collateral damage can occur? Because we in the Netherlands do not take on jobs that can involve civilian casualties. That is the policy we are pursuing. We also have our red card holder and our legad, the legal assessor, for that; they look at that. Then the coalition looks at the target. Then the Iraqi government is still looking at the target. On the basis of all that, the goal is determined. All that happened in Hawija. The pilots hit the target pretty good, too. According to the information that there was, there wasn't so much material in that bomb factory that the explosion would continue to the side where there were homes. The idea was that the range would be no greater than just that empty industrial area. That part has at least been incomplete, because there was much more presence in that factory, much more, I think, than those four trucks you quote on the basis of information from the newspaper. That's why the IS plant exploded a lot further. This IS plant partly caused the damage in the area; that was the aftershock. The trial is well carried out by our pilots. That's what I stand for; that's what we all stand for. They've hit the target. However, it is terrible that so much collateral damage has been caused there and so many civilian casualties have been suffered there. That was the trial. I can't tell you if that one informant was the informant, because that's all information collected by the coalition. But you can rest assured that all the informants who are there will be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u448	I suggest the Minister move on. You will have the opportunity to interrupt, but I think the Minister still has a few questions to answer. I am sorry, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen; you will have the opportunity, if necessary. A lot has been interrupted and a lot of questions have been answered during these interruptions. I suggest that the Minister should answer the questions that have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u449	Let me look at it, because I had put them in the spokesperson's order, but there has already been a lot of discussion about the interruptions. In my view, Mrs Diks' questions were mostly addressed. Then there are Mrs Karabulut's questions. She asked: is the Minister willing to... The coalition only recognizes some of the civilian casualties. Shouldn't you do it differently? That was her question; she's asked me before. Shouldn't you conclude differently, based on the conclusions of independent organisations? You have asked this question before in debates. You know it's very difficult to investigate this. It is often very difficult to explain that I have just tried to verify the process with regard to civilian casualties. So there could always be a discrepancy. We need to keep looking at whether they're civilian casualties or hit IS fighters. We are trying to indicate what we can indicate; we have done so now. I'm trying to think with the members of your Chamber about what else can happen to the future. Then Mrs Karabulut asked about the independent investigation into the events at Hawija. This is done by CENTCOM. They have the best means to do so on behalf of the coalition and they can also involve third party information in the investigation. I don't think that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u450	Mrs Karabulut, you will have the floor in a moment. Are there any more questions from Mrs Karabulut? 'Cause that's what you were doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u451	Yes, from Mrs Karabulút.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u452	Yes, from Mrs. Karabulut. That's her name.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u453	There is another question from Mrs Karabulut about the damage. Why didn't we compensate for any damage? Iraq is ultimately responsible for the damage itself. We were and are still in Iraq at the invitation of Iraq. That's how it's supposed to go. In principle, Iraq must compensate for the damage. We have not yet looked at it at all, nor at what we have in the letter, because with everything we had said about it, we had thus given up a fund or something like that to the community that it was the Netherlands that had committed that effort. Now we can look at that. I also wrote in the letter that we will do something for the community. Can we take a step forward? At Mrs Karabulut's request, or it was Mrs Diks; I am not sure that I have spoken once in a coalition about whether there can be a clearer window where people can go, because it is in principle settled. This is also looked at by CENTCOM and Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u454	Have all of Mrs Karabulut's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u455	Yeah, I think so. A lot of questions had already been included in the general round.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u456	I have two points. Let me start with the first point. The Minister says: I do not need to conduct an independent investigation into this incident, because that is the responsibility of CENTCOM. That is not true, because the Minister writes in her own letter that coalition partners do not make statements about civilian casualties and arms deployment from other coalition countries. We are responsible for this. After all this debacle, the security aspects that we have just debated, the Minister must recognize that a great deal has gone wrong in this case. Isn't that what we have to learn from? Shouldn't that be worth an independent investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u457	That's gonna be nothing but what we know now. There's been an independent investigation. The D.A.'s office looked into this procedure. CENTCOM has looked into it. A report has also been published on this subject. And what we have to establish here is that the information was at least incomplete. That's what we know here. And from another investigation comes nothing else. Because that is what ultimately went wrong in that sense. And that is why there have been so many civilian casualties: because that residential area wasn't really in the target area as it had been decided in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u458	I have to say that it is a priority and that the Defense Department states that there are no civilian casualties. Defence also states that the agreement with the Chamber is that we will be informed as soon as information is available. None of that happened. It's gone so wrong. 70 people were killed. And the Minister still tells me to rely on her organisation, which we have all been able to see how that has gone so far! What does that mean for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u459	I say you must trust what CENTCOM has done and what the Public Prosecutor has done. They're checking to see if anything criminal has happened. They have looked at it and they have found that there has been legitimate action here. It's terrible what happened. That's terrible. No one wants that. That is not the way the Netherlands looks at it either. But this is war and this is ISIS operating there. And he had that bomb factory there. And that's what we need to realize. That is one of the reasons why I would like to be a little more transparent about the complexity and difficulty of the work in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u460	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u461	Finally. Again, the Minister must read her own letters. The Netherlands and the Netherlands alone are responsible for this incident and for informing the Chamber. That didn't happen. There's been a lie. Two. The minister's referring to the D.A.'s investigation. How am I supposed to check if I don't have that D.A. investigation? Is that the least the Minister would like to do: to send us that investigation so that we can exercise some sort of control?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u462	It's not for me to release D.A. investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u463	But you can ask, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u464	You can always do that. I can always ask, but it's not for me to release D.A. investigations. I'd like to ask for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u465	If the Minister is appealing to the State's Attorney's Office and I should be able to rely on that, wouldn't that have been the case by now? Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u466	I very much like the rule of law that we have in the Netherlands. I don't know about you, but I think the D.A. is a very reliable, independent organization. The D.A.'s office tested the legality here. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. It is not for me to release that, but I can only say that the prosecution is a well-functioning, independent organisation. We must rely on this in a rule of law like the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u467	The Minister was apparently assuming that she had answered all my questions, but unfortunately that is not the case. I've got two more. One concerns the comments made by the Minister about the fact that there was much more ammunition in that plant than was initially adopted. So that means that this attack started with the wrong intelligence. I would like to say that I find that very horrible for the pilot who did this and has to carry this with him his whole life. I sympathize, because I can't imagine what it feels like if you've been involved in this or had a part in it. But as the Minister continues, I think she's doing a little bit bathinating about the fact that the whole neighborhood has been wiped out and that it's now apparently the fault of the victims themselves that they're dead. That's how you reasoned, because you said, "There are ISIS fighters. Those ISIS fighters apparently planted a lot of ammo there. Yes, then it may be natural that such an attack would cause much more damage." And then there's collateral damage, as the DOD calls it so horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u468	No, collateral damage and civilian casualties. Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u469	Yes, exactly, but you spoke in the media several times of collateral damage. I found that very disturbing too, but others have already gone into that. So I think it's a pretty loose, almost nonchalant way you're dealing with it right now. You shouldn't do that. That wasn't a question. That was a comment. The other point is that you say that compensation is a bit complicated and that people can report to a point of contact. Now I'm trying to imagine how that will go at the counter in Iraq, where, of course, it's still one big gang. There's just a war going on in every respect. How do you propose that people should apply for this compensation in practice? Could you let your light shine on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u470	First of all, I would like to come back to the first point, because I do not take it lightly at all. Not at all. But we have to realize to each other that an IS target has been attacked here. That was an IS bomb factory. In that IS bomb factory, there was a lot more than I thought. That at least made the intelligence incomplete. They weren't complete, but the target has been hit. Because it was incomplete, there has been a much larger explosion, let me put it this way. This has ensured that both IS victims and civilian victims have been killed. This doesn't do justice to the way I'm standing in it. I didn't say anything bad about that in any way. In fact, I said at the beginning of my general story that I feel terrible about civilian casualties, so we have to deal with each other a little well. That's what I needed to say, Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point. The information was incomplete. That is why civilian casualties have occurred. If the intelligence had knocked, that residential area, which was not at all in the target area of this factory, would not have been affected. That's incredibly nasty. If we had known that, our target calculation would have been very different and the Netherlands would not have accepted that assignment. Because we didn't accept assignments where a neighborhood was in the target area. That must be absolutely clear. I didn't know what to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u471	Then the hotline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u472	Let's get to the point of the fees. That's the way humanitarian war law is arranged. Iraq is our inviting party, and that is where we need to go. We realize that this is complicated. I have already mentioned this once at the request of your Chamber. Mrs. Diks knows that. That's why we said you might have to look at the community a lot more there, at the build-up side. By the way, we do that anyway. We're still operating there. We do a lot of development cooperation and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u473	It seems to me real that the compensation for these people cannot exist any development cooperation money, that a few jars are addressed. A douche bag, if you will, for these people, who, as I have just explained, have lost their family, their friends and their negation, their enterprise, and who may not have anything to do with this war and have been completely innocent victims by the actions of the Netherlands. The Netherlands could not know that there was a much larger explosion because of the wrong intelligence. But that doesn't change the fact that the Netherlands was responsible for this. Then I think it's way too thin for you to limit that compensation to some development mirrors and beads. This is not the way to deal with Dutch victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u474	Those aren't the words I used. You heard. We are responsible, but not liable. That's the complicated difference. That's our responsibility. We did. I wrote something about that in the letter. Of course, you can think differently about that, but at least that's how we are in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u475	Mrs. Diks, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u476	Finally, yes. I did civil justice once. Then was always a bit of a joke, as far as that applies in this situation: "The management is not responsible for... No, you don't have to. We will." The fact that you yourself consider that you are not liable or can be held liable is in any case in flagrant contradiction with what Mrs Zegveld, Professor Zegveld, for example, indicates. I therefore find it strange to begin with that there is such an incredibly different opinion on how that responsibility and liability actually are. I find it very strange that that is not clear and that apparently there can be such a difference of opinion between science and practice at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u477	Not about the responsibility. In no way. The responsibility is ours, and we have reported it to you. You just called them both, so that's why I'm responding. We are indeed thinking differently about liability. I've done a bit of a legal thing, too, maybe just like you. I know that if you put ten lawyers together, there will be ten different views. I would just like to make a point of view which we have: we are responsible, but not liable. That's humanitarian war law. That is the choice we all make and you can think differently about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u478	Then Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u479	The Minister actually says that we bombed on the basis of incomplete information, and if we had had that information completely, we would not have bombed. The fact is that there has indeed been a targeting through drones, reconnaissance flights and informants on the ground. It was known to be a bomb factory. Then you know, there's explosives. It was also known that there was a residential area somewhere. But it was said: it does not fall into the target area, it lies a bit off and it does not suffer from the bombing. Then why did they choose a bomb with an explosive that increases the risk of a secondary explosion? Why not opt for a bomb that is not explosive and where that bomb factory would also be destroyed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u480	Mrs. Van Kooten also asked what type of bomb was used. That's what she's getting at. I can't say anything about that in itself, because it's operational information. So I can't go into that. We do use precision bombs. In the preparation I have just explained that as an answer we look at the effect of throwing the bomb we use there, on the target. On the basis of the information, it could not be assumed that housing was also involved and therefore civilian casualties would occur. That's incomplete. That's what we said. I very much agree with Mrs Diks that this is terrible for those pilots, who of course saw it right away, and for all of us. But that is the reality and we take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u481	That is certainly terrible for everyone involved. But the fact is that the GBU-39 Small Diameter Bomb has been used. Apparently, that's common knowledge. My question is: why did they choose to do this, when there was a risk that a secondary explosion would occur, that the blow would be much greater and that many more civilian casualties could also be suffered? Why wasn't another less risky bomb chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u482	I can't say anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u483	The Minister says: The Netherlands does not have to pay any damages, because the Netherlands was there at the invitation of Iraq. Liesbeth Zegveld, also a lawyer, said: that's bullshit; the Netherlands has to. She literally said that in the paper. The Minister says that there are different lawyers and they all have different opinions. But Liesbeth Zegveld is a professor of war recovery payments. Then you'd expect her to know what she's talking about. If you put ten lawyers together, maybe they don't all know about the war recovery payments. So I ask the Minister for a serious response to Liesbeth Zegveld's plea that the Netherlands had to pay for that damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u484	I have looked into Mr Wassenberg's question, because he asked that question. The lawyer Zegveld apparently believes that we are liable on the basis of civil law. I have to take note of this, but in the opinion of the cabinet there is no tortious act. No tort has been committed and there is therefore no legal obligation to pay damages. That is the reasoning we have. That is a difference of opinion, but that is how it is. That's what I can say about it, and that's what you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u485	That wasn't exactly my question. I wasn't talking about lawyer Zegveld, because she has different hats. She has said this in the capacity of Professor of War Restoration Payments. I assume she knows what it's about. I find it a little too easy to say that she does say and I do not say. Then it's gonna be a well-nuke game. She says: The Netherlands was there at the invitation of Iraq, but Dutch soldiers were governed by Dutch law. They weren't soldiers who were naturalized into Iraqi or anything. They were Dutch soldiers who fought, flew and bombed according to Dutch law. For this reason, Professor Zegveld says, Dutch law is applicable and damages must be paid. If the Minister is not in a position to go into the substance of this matter now, perhaps it would be good to have the Legal Service look at it later and write it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u486	I know she's a professor. You said that there would be gross negligence and that there would therefore be liability. That's what she said. This is not so much based on humanitarian war law, but on civil law liability in the Netherlands. I take note of that, because, in the opinion of the Cabinet, there is no tortious act in this case, and there is therefore no legal obligation. I do not recognize myself at all in what Mrs Zegveld has said either, because I have read it about the great carelessness she believes. I have just explained to you how such a targeting process on the basis of which the pilot is going to fly is going to happen in the coalition. That has gone through very carefully. There is therefore no question of a great deal of carelessness. That is why we simply disagree with her. And you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u487	There's a difference of opinion on this, Mr. Wassenberg. I don't think you're getting any closer at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u488	I don't have a question, but I want to say one more thing about that. That seems almost an invitation to the next of kin to start a lawsuit, at least that's how it sounds to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u489	The Minister said that we are not responsible, but we are responsible. Then she said: we might see what we could do towards that community there. But that is very carefully formulated. Can the Minister not say: we are going to do something; we are going to see exactly what we are going to do, but at least we are going to do something for that community? That is my first question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u490	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u491	Okay. Then we have a harder commitment than: we're going to see what we possibly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u492	The only thing is that, of course, I have to coordinate all this with all kinds of people. I have now taken the passage in the letter for my own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u493	We've now heard from the Minister that she's going to do something. What she's gonna do, we'll hear from the minister. I'm sure she's going to inform the Chamber about that. The second point is that she says she's going to do something for the community, but in that second bombing, on the house in Mosul, there's obviously no community. There was only one family involved. Then what is still possible to do if there is no community but a family?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u494	I really need to take a look at that. I cannot answer that question in this way, because then, of course, it is also about the responsibility and liability reasoning that we have just talked about. I really need to look at that. And you were right: I will inform the Chamber about that in a progress report or otherwise. Perhaps I will do so in a separate letter in which I take this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u495	I appreciate that. Again, it may not be about legal liability, but it is about moral responsibility to do something for that family there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u496	Now I want to see how far you are and how much time you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u497	I think most of it has actually been discussed in a general sense when I look at it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u498	There is a second term, but I know the MPs: if a question has remained, they will come to the interrupt microphone. I hear someone now calling out that this is entrapment. Yes, it is. I shouldn't have said that. I'll see if there's any questions. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u499	If I've learned something in my political career, especially when I just started, it's that it's not so much what you think or know, but what your predecessor said, because you're always confronted with it. I am therefore somewhat surprised that this Minister did not hear what the other Minister had done until last Friday. Must have been a red flag in the department. I can assume that in every debate the Minister will be given a dossier that has been completely filled by people from the department who have also looked at what the texts or views of the previous ministers or the previous minister have been and what has become different in that regard. I am therefore very curious to see how this dossier has gone with this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u500	I can only conclude that I heard it last Friday. What were we doing? We were looking together to see what we could report in a transparent way on the two cases in which the Netherlands itself was responsible for those civilian victims. I talked about that. You know that. We went over that whole file and then it came up. Because we have never actually had a debate about civilian casualties in which you look at it so concretely, because the line was always that we didn't say anything about it. The only thing I can say is that there are several things that I think we should keep a much tighter watch on from within the department in the future, as has been said by anyone, including the members of the Chamber. Because we sometimes miss a commitment, as you know, or a motion, as I have noted. We need to do that much tighter than has been done so far. Yeah, I can't make it prettier either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u501	The Minister was very clear. The previous minister really didn't follow the procedure. That's incorrect. I recognized that, too, as did this minister. The department knows that. There are red lights in a discussion which I hope will be held in the department: what has been the previous text? If the Minister keeps repeating that she did not hear this until last Friday, then I am very concerned about the political antenna on the department. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Does the Minister believe that the political antenna on the department is good? Then she can explain why this only came out last Friday. Or is she supposed to notice that the political antenna on the department isn't good?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u502	I can only do it with the facts. In fact, I heard it for the first time last Friday. All I could do then was inform you about that. Of course, the political antenna could have been a bit better. So we just have to work together on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u503	I'm glad to hear that, but we've talked about civilian casualties before; we've really talked about that before. In fact, in that letter from uh... what is it? Those four cases have been explicitly described by the Commission on 13 April 2018. Then there's got to be something from the department like, "Oh, man, what's been there?" Once again, the Minister is going to repeat that she did not hear it until Friday. I'm gonna have to do it with that. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u504	Who was there before? I shouldn't ask you that either. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u505	I was right in the starting blocks when the Minister started answering questions per Member of Parliament. She had the first two. Then I thought, "Now I'm coming."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u506	That's right, you were after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u507	And then she was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u508	Yeah, exactly. It is about the letter that finally appeared on 4 November. That's a letter that's been hatched for 11 months. There is a new test of the possibilities for greater transparency, as it is called in the facts. That's a letter from eleven sides. So there's about a side a month written. Of these eleven sides, there is not yet a single corner on transparency towards the future. On that one side is about 80% in ifs and buts why you can't really be transparent. That brings me to the question I asked in my first contribution: why did this take so long? The Minister indicated that she had to consult with a lot of countries in the coalition. If I let this letter work on me and also know that the Netherlands was very reluctant in terms of transparency to most other countries anyway, then I can only imagine that those coalition countries in those 11 months have said 'your letter does not go far enough' instead of 'you go far in your transparency'. So what has it been that we have had to wait eleven months for this letter, with not yet a single piece of new policy on transparency and zero comments on the eleven suggestions made by GroenLinks, the SP and the PvdA, which the Minister has said countless times that she is going to incorporate into that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u509	Some of these suggestions have been incorporated in the letter. Look, I didn't just quote the coalition. You also realize that it is a major change in policy if you want to be open. So you need to talk to everyone about that, both in the organization and outside. You also need to map the effects; that's what we're talking about today. Then that safety comes first, and we had to wait for a number of investigations that were there. I myself think it has taken too long. So I agree with Mr. Kerstens right away. It's a fact that it is. How's it going in the future? The Commander of the Armed Forces, the Commander of the Air Force and myself have spoken to the kites. In that community, there are different views on transparency. One of them is very much based on his own safety and the environment, and I understand that very well when you're flying somewhere. And the other says: if only we had said something earlier about what we saw. What I have learned from these conversations and also from the paper I have received from you, and I am still working on looking into this for the future, is that perhaps we should say to each other much earlier what we have done, so just after we have stopped operating. And if we still work, we could also say much better what we do and where we throw bombs. Perhaps that could be more targeted, more precise, as part of you suggested. That's what we're gonna look at. We're not doing that right now, but those are things that we're going to pick up in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u510	I hear the Minister saying that she is still thinking about some of the 11 proposals made by these three parties. At least that is a gain, because for a moment I was assuming that we would read in the letter what the Minister thinks of the eleven proposals, as the Minister himself has always announced. I thought that was a bit disappointing, but there will be another surprise, I guess. Then there's the big policy change the Minister announces. You say that you only heard on Friday what your predecessor wrote in a letter to the House of Representatives on 15 June 2015. Everyone here has expressed their surprise. I always think: if you ask an intern to make a file for you, then what's changed with the Chamber on that important subject is the first thing that intern puts in that file. Apparently, that didn't happen. Is it true that you only heard on Friday that your predecessor, shortly after she said that no civilian casualties had occurred, also said that she would, of course, be very transparent about it when it turned out to be the case? That is what the facts say. So what's this big policy change you've been doing for 11 months and we need to find it with a magnifying glass?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u511	The answer is: yes, I heard this last Friday, when we went to look at it again. I have said this on several occasions in the direction of the Chamber. Look, you couldn't do a policy change until you stopped flying. That's what we agreed. And you could be more transparent about what you did in the weekly briefings. I have also changed that at the request of your Chamber. We changed that. You can find out what you think of it, but that too was a change that was different from what happened in the past. And people have to get used to that, too. It wasn't even said we were flying out of Jordan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u512	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u513	So that's all going one step at a time, and you just have to do it carefully. That means we've handled it in small steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u514	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u515	Yeah, and in the end didn't get that far, I guess I'll just make up my mind. It was just in Mr Bosman's interruption about the political feeling in the department. Now I have just read a very nice portrait of the minister, in which among other things she gave up her political sense. But then it couldn't be 11 months before this is there, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u516	I told you myself, I thought it was too long. So I simply agree with Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u517	I have two more questions. The first is as follows. The Minister insists that they were just told all this, so that the Chamber was wrongly informed, on 1 November. That's actually kind of special, I just thought of this conversation. Because on 20 October it was already in the publication of NOS and NRC. I assume you've taken this information to your attention. Did you not immediately ask internally: what am I reading here, how can that be and why do I not know this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u518	When it comes to the research, we have looked further in the context of the letter we were writing and of course also on the basis of what we have read in the media. Then we pulled the whole file again. And then this became me, because of course you have to see it clearly. On November 1st, this became me. I can't imagine the publication you're quoting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u519	I find that in the context of the things that are a little unbelievable tonight really very unbelievable. Excuse me. So if NRC and NOS publish about 70 civilian casualties, could it happen that your Department of Defense doesn't ring all the alarm bells?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u520	Yeah, but that wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u521	Don't you think to yourself, "Now I'm reading in the paper..."? You should have read in the newspaper yourself that your predecessor had misinformed the Chamber, because you did not know that, because you did not know that until 1 November. And that's not true, because it was already in the paper on October 20th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u522	I didn't talk about civilian casualties at all, I'm talking about the mood for the letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u523	I am talking about the information that you keep pointing out that you did not know that your predecessor had misinformed you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u524	The Chamber had misinformed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u525	Apparently, so do you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u526	The investigation that we conducted showed that the Chamber had been misinformed. That's what the text says. By the way, that's a letter from three people. I think that is a good thing to say, because that was Mrs Belhaj's question. In response to the actual questions of the progress report, this came up. That was not true because the briefing had been about which I explained something to you in detail, while CENTCOM classified the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u527	I'm sorry, but that's not what I'm talking about. On 20 October, NOS and NRC published a paper on the fact that 70 civilian casualties were reported in an attack by a Dutch F-16. Next, it is very clearly stated in that document that then Minister Hennis misinformed the Chamber. Is it really possible in your ministry, and therefore with you, that you will not be informed immediately on 20 October about what it is like? Why do you not immediately ask: is it really the case that my predecessor misinformed the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u528	Oh, now I get your question. I thought you were talking about those 70 victims. That's how I understood it. We went to see, of course, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u529	You're not doing that for 10 days, are you? What the hell is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u530	Well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u531	Isn't that information that should just be able to be coughed up by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u532	We were just writing a letter to your Chamber about these two cases. We also talked to the kites. We have completed a very careful process on this with each other. We weren't able to inform you until after that. In that sense...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u533	I do now have a little more insight into how it took eleven months for you to write this letter, because you seem to have given me a rather simple statement. What answers did my predecessor give to actual questions in 2015? It's been 10, 11 days to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u534	I gave the answer I gave. I knew about it officially on November 1st in this case. No, I knew about that. I knew about that on November 1st, for the first time. For the first time!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u535	The Minister thought he had replied to 11 proposals we made together with GroenLinks and the Labour Party in Monday's letter. Communicate openly and honestly about the consequences of the fight against ISIS, not just zoom in on the positive aspects. Do independent research on civilian casualties in the fight against ISIS, including on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u536	You're not going to read them all, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u537	Make a serious analysis et cetera, et cetera. This letter is not about the proposals we have made. This whole letter is a big smokescreen, a big smokescreen, to conceal that the department, with this minister in charge, does not have its own article 100 letters containing outright lies. This letter is with the media performances of last weekend's minister, screaming out at her predecessor, "Oh, sure" and hiding behind the pilots, a whole "boosword show," because we want to know the truth to justify it. I would like to know one thing from the Minister. That is because: will you stop persevering this play? Do you want to fully acknowledge that this has gone wrong on all fronts and that you are responsible for it? Can you still send us the letter you promised us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u538	From the outset, I have fully acknowledged that we are responsible and I am therefore responsible for what has happened. I'll take that responsibility, too. That's what we're up against. I have also indicated this in the direction of your Chamber. I'm not hiding behind anyone at all. I certainly don't hide behind the kites. I admire the work that kites do. That's hard work under difficult circumstances. When you look at what they have to do, you see it's a war against ISIS. We're in on that. That's where we fight terrorists with each other. We hope those terrorists don't come our way. That's the goal we're operating on there. I admire the work of our pilots and the careful way in which the work is done. They have a huge craftsmanship. I would never hide behind them. It's the other way around. In the letter, I stood before the pilots because I think they have done their job professionally. Mrs Karabulut will agree with that, because she will say: a mistake has been made. But no mistake has been made. The process is well executed. Our people have done their complicated work in craftsmanship. That is why I am throwing away all the other qualifications that were also at issue in the Chamber. I was glad the Chamber did the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u539	No, Mrs. Karabulut. I gave you the floor because I assumed you had another question that had not been answered. You draw conclusions, but that is what the second deadline is for. Then I will go to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen if she has a question that has not yet been answered. Because there's a second term. Then you can draw your own conclusions. I think there has been enough discussion on this difficult issue. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u540	I have two questions that I would like to answer. What is in the Cabinet letter, in the Minister's letter, that was so dangerous to the kites and their families that this could not be shared with the Chamber eleven months ago? For I see nothing in those letters that is so dangerous that the Minister could not have shared it with the Chamber before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u541	I have indeed heard that question from Mrs Van Kooten. If you deviate from a line you've always followed with each other, you have to do it carefully. That's what I reported. So that has nothing to do with the safety of the kites at the time, because we didn't fly there at the time. That's why we couldn't talk about it until we didn't fly there. Then we entered into that conversation and conducted that process as carefully as possible. At that time, their personal security was no longer at stake either, because we didn't fly there, so for the first time we could see how we would deal with being more transparent about civilian casualties, because that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u542	The second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u543	I have to say that the Minister is not answering my question. My next question refers to Mrs Diks' question. Indeed, on 20 October, it was simply in the newspaper that former Minister Hennis had not properly informed the Chamber about the civilian casualties. How is it possible that the Minister will not be able to hear this until 1 November? It happened in a public debate and also in response to parliamentary questions. If you had missed that all this time, it would have been in the newspaper last October 20th. How is it possible that you say here in the Chamber that you didn't hear that until Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u544	This is not just about civilian casualties. I've tried to say that a few times. That's good to see. In the replies of 23 June, it is true that it does not inform the Chamber correctly that "as far as is known at that time, there had been no Dutch involvement in civilian casualties from air strikes in Iraq'. That "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" "Nederlandse" We just couldn't say that, because we didn't say anything about our operations. We couldn't say until now. So this is basically just misinformed and misinformed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u545	You've said that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u546	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u547	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u548	But the point is that on 20 October there was literally what the Minister is saying in the newspaper. So the Minister could have known that. Probably the minister knew, too. Why does the Minister say she didn't know until November 1st? That's unbelievable. It's not credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u549	I really don't have anything more to add. I've explained it three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u550	I see Mrs. Diks. You've just been here. Did you leave a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u551	Yeah, there's been a question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u552	And which one was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u553	That's the next question. I just, uh, kind of build on my earlier questions about the publication...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u554	Yeah, building on your earlier questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u555	Yeah, building on, but there's a new question. You have just indicated that you did not officially know the Chamber had been misinformed until 1 November. Could you tell me when in those ten or eleven days between the publication and the official communication you were given any indication that something was really going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u556	I was informed of this point on 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u557	Still, just before the first term. I'm trying to understand something, but I'm having a bit of a problem with that. A lot of MPs are surprised at the fact that it takes you 11 days to get something official. That could mean two things. It may be that people didn't tell you. So on the 20th, something happens and on the 22nd, someone asks: should we tell the minister something? It seems to me that it's going pretty well. I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u558	To the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u559	Mr President, through you, I would like to ask the Minister: would you like to show a little more empathy about the fact that we are surprised by this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u560	But I get that. It's just really... We have... It's about misinformation of the Chamber. That came up on November 1st. The publications of the NOS and NRC were about the 70 civilian casualties that have occurred. We've been working with each other the whole time to see if we could make that public. Before that, we agreed on a course. You can find what you think of that, but for that we also wanted to talk to the kites. We made a deal about that. That was indeed not on Friday, because the F-35 arrived on Thursday. Then we talked to the kites widely. I told you a little bit about how they felt about that. After that, we could only complete the letter and send it to the Chamber. For the first time, I wanted to report publicly on the two attacks, with the whole process involved, and then on Friday evening the point emerged that in response to parliamentary questions my predecessor replied that there was no Dutch involvement. That could never be right, because the Netherlands was the only one who had flown there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u561	Forgive me, Mr. Chairman, but... I'm from Rotterdam. That is in itself positive. You don't have to forgive me for that; you understand that as a former Rotterdammer. Look, at some point things are just black or white. You keep a whole story, while most Members of Parliament actually want to know if you understand that we are surprised at the fact that you spent 11 days talking to us about it, and that you say to us: I really understand that that is strange; even more so, dear Chamber, I also apologize for not coming to you earlier. That's a very logical question, isn't it? It's not so hard to acknowledge that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u562	No, I apologized for this at first, too. We've been briefed, too. I've also been briefed in preparation for this. The first time I noticed the date of the CENTCOM report was on the Monday before the Friday of 1 November. Then we had a briefing, I looked at those times and said: 15 June; how about that? Then we figured that out further in the week of that Monday to that Friday. So I heard on Friday that something else was said in reply to Parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u563	I'm gonna... Mrs. Belhaj? Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u564	I'm rounding up. The point is, it's not really about you. You're busy all the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u565	Everyone thinks you're talking about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u566	Mr President, I would certainly not dare. Through you, I say to the Minister: you describe what it was like for you all the time. You say: that's very logical, because that's how I work. But the Chamber is trying to tell you that we don't think it makes any sense. Perhaps it is good to be aware of that and to go into it, because it costs nothing, it is not that difficult and it is quite clear. At least that would be a gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u567	I get that. I understand that it sounds crazy to MPs who are remote from such a department. I understand that very well, but it's just reality. I would have liked to have had it different, as I said a few times at the beginning, because we would have had a very different debate here. Then it was mainly about the civilian victims and the operations. Now we're in a different situation, so I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u568	Thank you. This brings us to the end of... Oh, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u569	There are two questions left. What's changed about the policy? There has been a test, there has apparently been a new policy, something has been written in that letter. In what way is the policy different from what it used to be? My second question concerns the facts. I miss the letter of 28 August 2015 with answers to questions from member Van Bommel. It's not in the facts. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u570	The facts are complete. You miss that letter, but the answers to Mr Van Bommel's questions to the attacks by the coalition see. We indicated which investigations the coalition has started and completed. That is not about the involvement of the Netherlands. That's what we've been focusing on here. That was also the question: to be more transparent about the involvement of the Netherlands. We then replied, in those answers, that for operational reasons and reasons of national security, we cannot comment on them. That is the consistent answer that has always been given. That's why that letter isn't in this review. Let's see, what was your second question? Oh, yeah, what's different about policy now. What is different is that, after we have talked to everyone about it, we now recognise for the first time that the Netherlands is responsible for two operations involving civilian casualties. We made that public in a letter. That was also the question that was raised in debates at the time: can you say something about it in the open? That's really different from what happened in the past. That couldn't have started until now because we weren't flying anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u571	No, no way, Mrs. Karabulut. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u572	I am a little surprised, because I think that was also the commitment of Minister Hennis: openness where it was possible. So at the time it could, um... I can't read that note so quickly, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u573	Yeah, she's trying through you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u574	So at the time it could... Every time the Minister tells us that it could be done now, but then it is no different than the policy that used to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u575	Well, at the time it could... The line was always to just not say anything at all. Then you asked me to say more. That's what I've done, and that's even different from what we've done in the past, that we made more announcements in that week's letter, so we indicated where we flew. That's different from the past. On the question of whether we could indicate what we are responsible for, we have now said that we can do so. You may not find it any different, but for us, who never said anything about it, and given the process that preceded it, it really is a revolution. Perhaps Mr Bosman knows better than I do that it has been a very important element in terms of security, too. That also has to do with care. So we had to take a very serious look at each other's ways of thinking about how we would do that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u576	Finally, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u577	Yeah, let's finish. This started in January. There has been an investigation, a test and all those things more to look at more transparency. There has been a debate with the Chamber about greater transparency. But then it took eleven months to come to the conclusion that we will eventually send a letter with what we have done. Is that the policy change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u578	No, the change is also that we are more active in informing about it when we operate. We've already done that when it comes to the weekly letter. I've already changed that, at your request. We have also discussed with each other that we will look at this differently, if we are going to fly again. I don't know if that's true. That will not be the case for a while now, we also know, because we are from the transition from the F-16 to the F-35. But if we fly again, we'll see if we can't say anything sooner, especially when it comes to civilian casualties. But we must always discuss this with each other in a coalition context. That's the trickiness of this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u579	Thank you. That really brings us to the end of the first term of office. I thank the Minister. I actually wanted to move on to a second term. Mrs. Diks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u580	I understand that you want a second deadline, but I would very much like a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u581	Anybody mind? No? Then why don't we suspend for 15 minutes? I'll suspend until 11:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u582	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u583	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has been lied about the responsibility of the Netherlands for about 70 civilian deaths. My group has listened carefully to the answers given by the Minister to the questions from the Chamber. The most important new fact that we have learned today is that Minister says that she was only informed last Friday by her officials about the lies of her predecessor in office. To be honest, I find that quite amazing, especially since it was already published by NOS and NRC on 20 October. If the Secretary of Defense is unable to detect such major errors in files... Excuse me. If the Ministry of Defence is unable to detect such major errors in files and there is apparently no well-functioning political antenna on the Ministry, we must ask ourselves whether the Minister is in charge. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the Minister is responsible for lying to the Chamber by her predecessor. In addition, the Minister is responsible for the Ministry, which apparently did not properly inform the Minister about the lies of her predecessor. As a Chamber, we cannot accept that the cabinet has informed us immemorially, incompletely and incorrectly. The Chamber can't let that go on its side. That's why I have to file the next motion on behalf of GroenLinks with a heavy heart. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber has been immemorial, incomplete and inaccurately informed of the civilian deaths that occurred during the Dutch bombing of Hawija on 3 June 2015;]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of Defense,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks, Mr Karabulut, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Öztürk, Mr De Roon, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-664]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u584	Mr. Chairman. Not transparency, but a smokescreen on the responsibility of the Netherlands for the deaths of 70 innocent civilians in Iraq. Not the truth, but lies we got. The Chamber was misinformed. Secret warfare had to be kept secret at all costs. After a whole media spectacle last weekend because the minister's officials had only informed her on Friday about the fact that the Chamber has been lying since 2015, we were told as a blow to the Minister that she has no knowledge of this. She has no knowledge of an article 100 letter, which is the basis for a mission and sending our soldiers on broadcast. Totally unacceptable. That is why my group supports the motion of censure with great pain in the heart. My question to the Minister is: when did the Prime Minister know about all this? Has this been discussed openly or has it been discussed in private in a nuclear cabinet? Mr. Chairman. In addition, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only after reporting on this matter in the media will the Netherlands be responsible for an air strike involving dozens of civilians being killed;]] [[noting that the government's policy is to share little or no information about civilian casualties during missions;]] [[Considers that, in a democracy, the representatives of the people should be aware of the consequences of arms deployment during missions, even if this is bad news;]] [[Considers that the Chamber could and should have been informed much earlier about the consequences of air attacks in Iraq and Syria;]] [[condemns this policy and calls on the government to be much more transparent about civilian casualties due to arms deployment in future, especially during missions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-665]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u585	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you can't tell if something is the result of a succession of snippets or a brilliant strategy. It could look the same on the outside. This is such an opportunity. It is an insane story that the Minister says he was informed of the way in which her predecessor informed the Chamber only last Friday. I have already said that an intern who is asked to make a dossier would start by looking up what the minister's predecessors have said on this dossier. It is equally strange that we have had to wait eleven months for a letter on transparency, which actually contains very little news and which does not, in any case, deal with what the Minister has always said that the letter would deal with it, for example the proposals of SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Both speak, to use an understatement, not exactly a sense of urgency and weight of this matter. But of course it can also be a brilliant strategy. The Minister is responsible, not the previous executive, not the civil servants, not the people of Defence, nor the intern who may have made an incomplete file. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in carrying out the constitutional tasks in spite of all the measures and care taken by the Defence Department, the possibility of unintended civilian casualties is never entirely excluded;]] [[Considering that the Court has for a long time been asking questions about compensation for survivors of citizens who have suffered damage as a result of Dutch military actions in the context of participation in the international fight against terrorism or in missions to promote international peace and security;]] [[noting that there are countries which, regardless of the question of blame or recognition of liability, have a standard regime to compensate families of civilian victims;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of an inventory of internationally existing compensation schemes, to submit to the Chamber before the end of the year a Dutch standard compensation scheme for the (next) civilian victims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-666]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u586	Mr. Chairman. A very brief request. I have just not been able to update my group members on this matter. I'd really like to do that after the second term. I would ask colleagues to give me a few minutes to update my colleagues from the group, including on the motion tabled by Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u587	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. It was an intense debate. It wasn't nothing either; it was about something. It was about human lives and, of course, about all those people who were victims of that bombing on the ground. But it's also about the military, the kite on the plane, who is responsible for carrying out his mission, doing what he has to do. Let me remind you once again that the VVD behind the military, in front of that military and next to that military state where things go well, as they should go. But the fallout is something else. Let me repeat once again: there is only one person responsible, and that is the Minister of Defence. The VVD is for transparency, but with the security of the military, the operation and the home front in mind. The Minister is now presenting a new policy on transparency. This transparency will have to prove its effectiveness in the future, because it is not yet on the agenda. The VVD will follow that very closely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u589	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our women and men of the armed forces contribute to the fight against ISIS, together with 81 partner countries. With our F-16s, we bomb specific IS-bulbs and provide air support to ground troops. Our pilots are the best in the world. If they bomb with precision, it is rarely associated with civilian casualties. 2,100 times our pilots bombed in the past few years, and twice there were civilian casualties involved. That's terrible, especially for the victims and the next of kin. Right then, at those moments, the Ministry must ensure that the information and communication are in order. The Ministry didn't do it right. The Ministry has done a bad job and the Minister is responsible for that. She acknowledges that and apologizes for that. The CDA appreciates that. My group also expects the Minister to ensure that this never happens again, that she gets complete files on these situations and that a next minister gets complete files on these difficult, precarious situations. That's the question I'd like to give the Minister. Does she want to take care of that? And how is she gonna do that? For victims of ISIS, for residents of Syria, for residents of Iraq, a debate like this may happen crazy. What are these people talking about? Maybe they're thinking. I think that such a democratic debate, in which we can continue to monitor the government with detailed questions, with questions about the broad lines, is something that we like the people in Syria and Iraq and what our pilots are working for. I sincerely hope that we can continue to support our people who are still working in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u591	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u592	Mr. Chairman. 74 civilian casualties. And the Minister deliberately lied to the Chamber. The Minister takes no responsibility and transfers responsibility and liability to Iraq. The Minister has received numerous calls from several parties on transparency, but has ignored them all. Lying, shuffling responsibility and ignoring the Chamber: there is only one answer to that, and that is a motion of censure. We have co-signed the motion by GroenLinks. But who didn't tell these civilian victims? Who lied to the Chamber? That was ex-Minister Hennis. She lied knowingly and knowingly. She was eventually rewarded with a job as a UN envoy in Iraq. She first hid civilian casualties in Iraq. Now she's got a job for that. What's that supposed to be like for the next of kin? Someone who has been hiding civilian casualties for years will be given a high position. I think we at the UN should do everything we can to take that job away from her. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the former Minister of Defence has, on several occasions, deliberately misinformed the Chamber about the civilian casualties that have occurred in the Dutch military action in Iraq;]] [[Considering that this has caused great suffering to the survivors and that the actions of the former Minister of Defence are contrary to the right to information of the Chamber;]] [[noting that the former Minister of Defence is currently in office at the United Nations in not least Iraq;]] [[Considers that this function is incompatible with the actions of the former Minister of Defence at the time of its ministry;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the United Nations to release the former Minister of Defence from its current post,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-667]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u593	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u594	Thank you, Mr President. We have given the Minister every opportunity to answer our questions, but the Minister turns, throws up smokescreens, avoids serious questions, calls the NIS research a "research" and is totally unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber is immemorial, incomplete and misinformed, not only by former Minister of Defence Hennis, but also by the current Minister. It's shameless and disrespectful. And the minister doesn't take responsibility. That is why my name is under the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u595	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals found this a disappointing debate. It was a debate with a technocratic minister about an extremely serious incident. We're talking 70 dead and 100 injured at least! 22 women and 26 children were killed. And we hear from the minister: it happened carefully, according to all the protocols and by the book. I think that is an extremely poor consolation for the next of kin and the victims. I find it hard to believe that the Minister has only known for five days that her predecessor has lied about the civilian deaths. I find shocking that the Netherlands has done nothing to help the next of kin and those affected, even now, four and a half years after the bombing. If the Netherlands does not have a legal obligation to do so, I think that is the case, then at least there is a moral duty. Mr. Chairman. There's been a lie about the civilian deaths. There's been denied and downplayed. For the Animal Party, this is a reason to co-sign Mrs Diks' motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u597	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u598	Mr. Chairman. We've had a big debate. That wasn't easy. Or at least the minister didn't make it very easy for the Chamber. I don't really know why. Maybe she can explain that further to this deadline. Mr. Chairman. Ultimately, we are talking about human lives: innocent people in the wrong place at the wrong time. We therefore believe that it is absolutely right that the Minister has apologized sincerely to the Chamber for misinformation of the Chamber in relation to the civilian victims of the air attacks in Hawija and Mosul. The Minister is responsible not only for doing and leaving her predecessor, but also for communicating it to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. D66 has been advocating maximum transparency and openness for years, even when it comes to bad news. We hope that this will also be the motto for the Defense Department. We hope that tomorrow the Minister will not only have a nice cup of coffee with certain people in the ministry, but that she will also simply put things in order. For these are debates that do not need to be conducted in this way. Mr. Chairman. If I look forward, there are two important things I have a motion for. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that there are at least 74 civilian casualties to be regretted as a direct result of Dutch arms deployment;]] [[calls on the Government to release funds within the Defence budget for voluntary compensation towards the survivors and communities in question,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that transparency over civilian casualties has so far been insufficient;]] [[whereas coalition partners such as the US and Australia do report on the number of civilian casualties caused by air strikes;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure maximum transparency regarding civilian casualties in air strikes by the Chamber to inform about dates and locations of air strikes, taking into account the security of military personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-668]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-669]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u599	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u600	Thank you. Mr Öztürk would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u601	Did I hear correctly that the minister should just get to work tomorrow from D66, when I heard a fierce D66 spokesperson in the first term and when I heard today that the minister just lied to me, and that's been lying for years? How could D66 just let a minister like that go? The moment a minister lies to the Chamber and tells lies, he has to leave. How come D66 doesn't do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u602	I'm not sure this is a serious question, but I'm gonna assume that it is. You heard that I thought it was a complicated debate. You have also heard that I am pleased that the Minister has begun to offer her sincere apologies for what the former Minister has done and for the way in which he has done so far. I think that's important. Two. She's cleared up a couple of things. Some things I don't have the documents, or I don't have access to them because they're secret. And three. It is true that you have heard me say that I want this Minister not only to have a cup of coffee tomorrow, but to get to work. I've known this ministry for the past 3.5 years of different files, and it just seems like a huge mess. I still don't know how it happened, but whether it was Schaarsbergen or the mortar grenades or the Ossendrecht shooting, every time the Ministry tends to think: if we give them half the information, it'll be fine. Well, here's the thing: it's not gonna be okay. This is also a clear signal from D66: just do it in a normal way, like a normal ministry. Respect this room. Respect also a minister who has an obligation to do her work in this Chamber as well as to communicate transparently about what is happening at the Ministry. We are politically responsible for what is happening in the military. The minimum that Defence must do is to put the Chamber in a position to assume that political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u603	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u604	You may be angry, but this minister has just lied to the Chamber with her predecessor for years. For this reason, several ministers and secretaries of state were sent home, also by D66 when it was in the opposition. I understand you're not allowed to do it from the coalition. I also understand that it would cost a riot the moment you really do what your heart would like to do. I get that. But be honest. Then just say: we are in the coalition, so we have to give the minister a chance, otherwise our ministers will be gone too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u605	I always have trouble with people who just claim to have some kind of pass to insinuate things and doubt the integrity of another. I don't have to accept that. I have had a genuine debate here. I really wanted answers to the questions I had. You don't have to believe that. You're not my party either. You don't belong to my constituents either. It doesn't really bother me at all that you have a problem with that. I know I've been here with integrity. I know that I am now giving the Minister and the Ministry a clear mandate: they simply have to do their job well and I am not going to see another incredible mess being sent to the Chamber. That's how it is, Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u606	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Chamber was factually misinformed, but not deliberately wrong, and there was no interest in that either. There was always the option to say nothing at all. So I'm assuming it didn't happen intentionally. This minister did not know until Friday that there was factually incorrect information. I believe that. In addition, the Minister himself immediately informed the Chamber. The Minister also apologized tonight for the way things were going. I appreciate that. In abundance, the interests of our own soldiers are also well served at all times. That's the most important thing for me. I will therefore not support this motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u608	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u609	Mr. Chairman. The Minister apologized at the beginning of her term and went deep into the dust for the mistake of the predecessor. But, yeah, is that enough? We do not live in a sorry democracy, and there is something more going on as far as I am concerned. In fact, I note that the department has spent two years on brittle information, saying that the minister's predecessor had misinformed the Chamber. This means, in my view, that official support has been seriously inadequate for a long time. The signal can't be that the department or a minister just gets away with it by just saying sorry about a pastor's mistake. I asked the Minister what she was going to do to avoid repetition. I do not think that I have received a coherent and convincing answer. That is why, in addition to the reasoning contained in Mrs Diks' motion, I come to another conclusion. I believe that the Minister is politically responsible for the fact that official support has been seriously inadequate and that it has lasted two years. We do not know now what else this official support may have not reported to the Minister. This means that, as far as I am concerned, the conclusion is that there can be insufficient confidence in the Minister, also for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u610	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u611	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The line was no information to the Chamber during operations. That is where 2015 has passed and also in an incorrect way. That's a tough issue. The Minister states that she did not know this until last Friday, and she also apologized for it. It is a difficult issue for us, as I have already pointed out, but it has had no impact on the safety of anyone. So we accept that apology. That leaves the question of whether there is trust for the future. The question arises as to whether it is an incident that has taken place or that it has gone wrong more often in relation to the provision of information to the Chamber. The question is whether we can prevent that in the future. I understand that where work is done, mistakes are made, but this cannot happen every year. That is why my question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to check at her ministry whether there are any more such incidents floating around. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u612	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u613	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her openness and also for repeating the ambition to be as transparent as possible. It is also a good thing that she apologized in her term for what went wrong and for misinformation of the Chamber under the former minister. We're dealing with a devilish dilemma here. There's been a lot of civilian casualties. We very much regret that. At the same time, it happened at a time when we were fighting against ISIS: a terrorist organisation, a murderous organisation. That makes the trade-off very complicated. At the same time, it remains bizarre that a previous minister deliberately misinformed the Chamber. It is very worrying that this can be done from a ministry, and also co-signed by three ministers. I would ask the Minister to investigate this further. What really went wrong here? That it went wrong, we all agree on that, including the Minister, but what exactly went wrong here? How could this wrong information come to the Chamber? How can we learn from this to prevent it in the future? I'll take that to the Minister. Then there's policy. What has actually changed in policy? The Minister says she wants more transparency. She also said in April 2018 that civilian casualties were being suffered. That was during a military operation, by the way. Will the new policy become more transparent when it comes to those civilian victims, even during an ongoing operation, or will the Minister insist that this can only be done after the conclusion of a military operation? I would like to make that clear, in line with what Mr Bosman has said. It is still bizarre that this minister only heard last Friday that the previous minister misinformed the Chamber. I find it inexplicable that that political antenna is not there at the Ministry. Or things are just covered up. I'm very dissatisfied with that. I would also like to make that quite clear. Mr. Chairman. My final point is about compensation. I deliberately signed the motion with Mrs Belhaj to do everything in my power to see what we can do for that community there, including the relatives of that family in Mosul. I have therefore signed this motion wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u614	After Mr Voordewind's contribution in the second term, I actually have a question. You state that you assume that the minister's predecessor has knowingly misinformed the Chamber. You're saying you're dissatisfied with the whole thing. I therefore assume that the Christian Union will support this motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u615	No, I don't have to be very excited about that. The previous minister misinformed the Chamber. This Minister has tried to be ever more open and transparent. She even did that during an ongoing operation, in April 2018. I and my group are not from the school that everything that a predecessor has done should automatically lead you to vote in favour of a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u616	Mrs. Diks, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u617	That is a rather special explanation of the ministerial responsibility. There is always only one Minister of Defense, and he unites everything in him, including what happened for her. So that's what this minister is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u618	We have also appealed to this minister. She apologized for that, too. That is not to say, or at least that does not mean, for my group, that it automatically leads to the support of a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u619	Finish your sentence, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u620	Exactly. I hadn't gotten to my question yet. But none of this makes up for the fact that in the end the predecessor of this minister has also informed the Chamber deliberately and knowingly that we think wrong. I understand the Christian Union is just gonna let that go on its side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u621	No, you've heard me say that I'm very concerned about that. I have also asked this Minister to look into this, but that does not lead our group to the same conclusion as your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u622	You're making other consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u623	No, it's okay. Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term from the Chamber. The Minister states that she needs a short suspension. Until 00:00? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u624	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I can join the Members of Parliament who have said that we have had a complicated debate here. That is also why I made my sincere apologies in the first term for misinformation of the Chamber by my predecessor in office. But as everyone has said, I am responsible for this, because that is how it is done. I've actually indicated that from the beginning. Hard things have been said here today in the Chamber, including the administration. Let me say in general terms that we will do everything we can to learn from it. I also consider it my responsibility to see it that way and to take it up. There has to be, and there's no other way. I also regret, of course, that in the first motion, a large part of the opposition in the Chamber gives up confidence in me and thus also a significant part of the organisation for which I am responsible. I'm sorry about that, because I'm in front of that beautiful department. It is a department on which passion is worked with heart and soul. But this is the reality, and it is a pity that I have not been able to convince and take your Chamber further in this matter. But I am responsible for it, and also for the work of my predecessor. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked to me and I would like to answer them. The first question is from Mr Stoffer of the SGP. He asked me to check something out. He said: it is good that you have apologized and that is important, and you have the first moment that was chosen to inform the Chamber, but how well is the mistakes actually being worked? That is what Mr Stoffer said. I have just said something about this in a general sense, but Mr Stoffer has said that it should not happen anymore. Now he thought that was a bit absolute himself when he said it. And in his coloring, he rightly said that where work is done, mistakes are made. That goes for everyone. But I'm willing to see if, following on from the fact that we need to learn from what happened, we can get things up with further research. I am therefore prepared to do so. Mr Voordewind asked me to do further research anyway. Of course, we have already done a lot of research on this issue, as Mr Voordewind knows. And, of course, we will do everything we can to learn from this issue. That's all we can do. That's what you have to do in the end. That goes for all the work you do; you have to learn from it. Mr Voordewind also asked me to look again at the new policy of transparency. On the one hand, because the debate was constantly about misinformation and, on the other hand, about how it happened with the civilian victims, I did not dwell very much on the new policy mentioned in the letter. Indeed, we have included a number of changes in the letter. I could have said that in reply to Mr Kerstens. That's on page 11 of 12 of the letter. I have, of course, looked at what has been going on in the debates over the past year. We release data, locations and possible numbers of civilian casualties in the manner stated in the letter. That's new. And that we may also be looking at it during surgery is also new. That's what was asked. Of course, we can only do that if safety is not at stake. I would like to emphasise Mr Bosman's important point. It must not be at all times at the expense of the safety of our men; that is also in the letter. They may also be women, of course, but for the most part they are men. This means that it will always be a weighting, but there is also a piece on the new policy. I am only saying this once again in the direction of Mr Kerstens. Then there was Mrs Karabulut's question about the Prime Minister's involvement. The fact is that there is a sentence on this subject, namely that it is likely that the most concerned ministries have been informed about the existence of the investigation. The most affected ministries are State Departments, State Departments, State Departments, State Departments, and then VenJ. In this sense, it is also included in the facts and I can tell you in this way. Mr President, I would like to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u626	Before you move to the motions, there are a few brief questions, because we are not going to do the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u627	At this hour I wouldn't even be for that, I guess. The Minister's reaction to the motion of censure tabled by my party and widely supported, and the comments made by the Minister on this matter, appear to me as if the Minister were very far out of line and indicating that we have commented on the Ministry. That is really not the case. We have tabled our motion of censure against the Minister and not against the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u628	And the motion is addressed to the Chamber, so the Minister doesn't have to respond to it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u629	I would have liked to say a little more about it in my response to the motions, but I should have liked to do so now. I know it's a motion addressed to the Chamber. That's always the hard part, but I take full responsibility. I have done so from the beginning in the debate. I also apologized for saying on the basis of the facts that it was not correct. If the Chamber is not properly informed, I am responsible. I didn't want to do it all over again, but I wanted to report that I'm standing in front of my people in the department. That's what I said. This applies not only to the people who operate, but also to the official organisation. If there is so much hard criticism in the Chamber for a whole day, including the department, then we must learn from that. That's what I wanted to say. I did not wish to make any further assessment of the motion, because that is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u630	Fine. The same goes for you, Mrs. Diks. You said what you had to say about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u631	May I say something very briefly about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u632	No, Mrs. Diks, no way. You have tabled a motion and we are going to vote on it. Mrs Karabulut, you may also ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u633	In fact, it says "very likely," so it's a bit difficult to judge, but the Minister states here that the Prime Minister was already aware of the civilian victims from June onwards and thus of the lie that was kept up to Friday. It's been noted. If it's any different, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. The second question is whether the Minister is prepared to release the dates and locations of the more than 2,000 other bombings, so that civilian casualties can be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u634	With regard to the first, the factual account states the following sentence on page 2: it is likely that the most concerned ministries have been informed about the existence of the investigation. That's the research that's cited in that piece. This is about June 2015. I have indicated to you what are the most affected departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u635	Mrs Karabulut is also entitled to ask only one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u636	Then let's inform. I have indicated that there is a new policy in the letter. I haven't talked about that in detail today. In response to Mr Kerstens, I have just mentioned this. That could be broader, but I'm sure you wouldn't want that, Mr President, because it's not the time for that either. But that will always be a weighting. New is that we could also release data and locations, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u637	Is that what you're gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u638	That is what we are going to do if we have been there ourselves, if there is a relationship between the bombing and the damage, then we must first establish this and if it can be done in the context of security. That's how we look at it. It will always be a weighting, as Mr Bosman rightly said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u639	I would like to add my voice to the facts and indeed to the last sentence: it is plausible that. That's not a fact. It's likely that... I find that damaging, because apparently the Minister is not aware of who is and who is not. But it's an assumption. In fact, the Minister mentions a number of ministries here and thus gives rise to the expectation or suspicion that these ministries are involved or have knowledge of them. That's just not a fact. That's right, I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u640	The policy is and was at that time that information is exchanged with the departments. Who exactly knew is the question. But it says "ministries." You saw that. It is true that the ministries were aware. Who? I can't tell you that. But the policy has been implemented. That's also the line that's run in this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u641	I didn't come here to say that we didn't ask for a plausibility story, but for a fact story. I come here to respond to what the Minister just said about the eleven proposals made by SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA. She indicated earlier that there would be another reaction to that. There will be a written response to that. Just now the Minister indicated that you will find some of these proposals on the last page of the letter of 4 November. Can I still assume that there will be a written response on the other proposals? If so, when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u642	I just said that. I did not mention these specific points. I thought it would be a good idea to mention them, because you said you had not seen the policy changes to that effect. I said that in the... first term. I had to think, because we've been here for so long. I do not know the deadline, but we will simply return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u643	All right, the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u644	But for the budget? I don't know. The budget starts in half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u645	No, it's off. The budget will take place tomorrow night. Please continue. Mrs. Diks, we just said that was the last interruption. But?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u646	But a point has been raised about plausibility. We all saw, of course, that in the factual account a view was subsequently expressed. I would like to receive a brief letter from the Minister explaining how this plausibility works, who exactly were involved and when they were informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u647	It is normal policy that ministries are informed in this case. Just as there are now meetings of the Missions and Operations Steering Group, that was also at the time. The ministries have therefore been informed. I can't report who or what right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u648	I know what you're going to ask, Mrs. Diks. The question was whether the Chamber would be informed by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u649	I don't know if there's much more to say about it, but I'll see if I can get a letter on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u650	Good. I suggest that you proceed with the assessment of the motions submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u651	I have to start with the motion in part no. 665. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. I have indicated in the letter what proposals we have. We will go into some of the other proposals, but at the moment I have to advise against this. Then the motion to part No. 666 by Mr Kerstens. In fact, I have a preference for Mrs Belhaj's wording in the motion for a resolution on item No. 668. I should like to include Mr Kerstens' motion. As it stands, I would advise against his motion. In principle, we are trying to work on this, but I should therefore like to advise against the motion and to involve it in the motion in part No. 668. The motion in part No. 667 I don't recommend. You can see why, also looking at the debate. Then the motion to part No. 668 by Mrs Belhaj and Mr Voordewind. I will certainly take that kindly. I should therefore like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Of course, I can't do it on my own. We need to look at it internationally. I would just like to say a few words about the observation. It says, "minimum 74." I would suggest that Mrs Belhaj take that out, because we do not know that. As your Chamber also knows, we have not been able to establish it. Based on public sources, it's about 70. So I would like to give you some thought to getting it out. Then I'd like to take a good look at this. If I can see it so that we do not look at it alone, and also see whether it is possible and appropriate in the context of international agreements, then I can leave the judgement to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u652	Fine. I'm gonna change that. But the Minister also indicated that there are interesting elements in the motion of Christmas. Crazy enough, I saw that, too. If I have to change my motion, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u653	Maybe you could put it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u654	Exactly. If it's just judgment room, that's fine. Perhaps you could indicate which elements of Mr Kerstens' motion you found interesting, because then I will just put them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u655	Then I'm gonna have to put them next to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u656	Is the Minister going to write the motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u657	No, I don't think so. I suggest you go there yourself... The way I explained it in the motion in part No. 668...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u658	I'd say have a cup of coffee with you, Mrs. Belhaj and Mr. Christmas. We're gonna vote on the motions next Tuesday anyway. I'm going to see Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u659	In principle, the Minister now gives judgment to the Chamber on an uncovered motion. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u660	What motion are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u661	Mrs. Belhaj's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u662	I have explained the motion in a certain way and said that I am going to look favourably at it, but that we cannot do so alone. We need to see what we can do. I had already said something in the letter about a fund and whether we should not do so with others, as you know. Article 100 letters are not only signed by the Ministry of Defence, as you know. I have therefore explained the motion in this way and, if I may explain it in this way, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. So I'm going to look at it in a broader sense. Then I'd like to make a proposal on how I'm going to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u663	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u664	Yes, please. So when it comes to money, it is a shift in the department, the Chamber is informed about it and we get...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u665	Absolutely. Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u666	Mr. Kerstens, what are you going to do with your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u667	I'm going to have a cup of coffee with Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u668	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u669	However, I would ask the Minister to state which specific point was not acceptable to her from the motion for a resolution on item No. 666, because I don't think there was a difference. Then it is strange to give one motion judgment chamber and to discourage the other. So it might be a good thing if the Minister helps us get on the road a little bit. Then it can stay with one cup of coffee instead of a whole can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u670	Here, too, it was in the standard scheme for me. You are asking the government to make such a standard arrangement; that is actually what it says. In the motion in part No. 668 the government is asked to consider whether funds could be made available for voluntary compensation towards the survivors. So that's different from a standard scheme that needs to be made. That's the big problem I have with this. Mrs Belhaj's motion states: look at those communities and that compensation towards next of kin. But you are talking about a standard regime for civilian casualties, and I think that goes too far. So that's the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u671	Clear. That's obvious. Then the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u672	That's the motion in part No. 669 by Mrs Belhaj, on maximum transparency, looking at what the US and Australia are doing. I have just said something about this and we have already included a number of things in the letter. I myself understand, I say to Mrs Belhaj, that part of it is that the coalition partners do report. They also report in a certain form; so they don't always do it in general. So there are a number of things in the letter that I have just mentioned. In the letter we also indicated that, if we can see that it was like the Netherlands, if there is a direct link between the damage and the use of weapons and if it can be done in the context of security, we can also report on an interim basis. We'll have to weigh it. If I may explain your motion in this way, in line with what is in the letter, I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u673	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-23.u674	One motion has been tabled on the withdrawal of confidence in the Minister. It is customary to vote on this directly, but I am looking at the Chamber for that. Does the vote on the motion for a resolution on the withdrawal of trust be accepted? I see that's the case. Then we'll vote in three minutes. Five minutes? It's just being negotiated. We're going to vote on the motion of censure in five minutes.
