ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	We shall now turn to Mr Van Meenen's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media on the concerns of parents and pupils of the VMBO Maastricht about the exam period. I would like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On June 22, 2018, the terrible announcement for 353 students of the VMBO Maastricht came. They thought they were successful, the flags were already hanging outside, but unfortunately, their diploma didn't go through. It's a huge drama. In the end, a lot has been done to fix that. For those students, things turned out well. You'd expect it to be done with that, but what's our surprise? If we don't pay attention, the same thing will happen again. We can read what students and parents find now. I quote: "It's still a tragedy. They're doing their best to improve it, but it doesn't seem like it. No one has any more faith in it. I haven't had a week this year that there was no fallout. I want to get out of here as soon as possible." Mr. Chairman. Students missing 100 hours of class. Teachers sitting at home. Another 17 reports at the inspection. My question to the Minister is: can he offer clarity and help parents and students preparing for the final exam? And how's the recovery order going? A regional meeting was to be held, announced in the December 2018 letter, between the board, the VO Council, the minister and regional partners. What came out of that conversation? Why wasn't the Chamber informed about this? Because that was the deal we made last year. How is the functioning of the Interim Board? All the concerns of parents and students, as in the past, seem to be again ignored. What exactly is the enhanced supervision of the inspection? And what's the status of the inspection? What did the inspection do with those 17 reports this time? What is the Minister doing to prevent this imminent disaster if it is; I hope not? Didn't the minister leave too much to the board that's in there right now? And what will the Minister do for the future students? Can he assure us that this is not going to be the same as last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Meenen for his questions on the situation at VMBO Maastricht, a school in which a very violent situation indeed took place last year. In this respect, it is understandable that, as we return to the final exams, tensions are getting worse. I promised that I would send you a progress report before the summer, which will also report on all the investigations that have taken place in the past period and all the measures that have been taken. That deal stands as far as I'm concerned. As far as school exams are concerned, in anticipation of this progress report, I can inform you that the inspection in January looked at the school exams in the context of enhanced supervision, because we did not leave the school to its fate after everything was completed last year. Finally, the conclusion could be that the quality of the school exams was in order and that the school exams were well completed. That's good news, even knowing what happened last year. Indeed, there are still concerns about the drop-out, because the percentage of drop-out and absenteeism at this school is quite high, also in the context of what is going on in other schools under this LVO flag. I am waiting for the final inspection report, which will be completed fairly quickly, but the school has indicated that they have programmed their PTA over the period of education and that when there was a drop-out at one very specific exam group, care and well-being, a high number of hours of absence have been tried to compensate the hours at other times or have ensured that in other ways, including under the guidance of teachers, teaching time is fulfilled. So the school is doing what can be done within the difficult conditions in which it is in place, and I will report to you further as soon as we have final possession of the inspection investigations. That's gonna happen pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is good that the Minister will report before the summer, but the exams have already taken place before the summer. I must say that I actually feel that there is another kind of difference between the observation of the inspection on the one hand and what parents and students say on the other. That was also the case last year: praiseworthy reports, but in the meantime it was just a mess. What I'm worried about, and apparently a lot of parents and students, is this. This year may not be as bad as last year, but I do not really hear from the Minister's words any guarantee that what happened last year cannot happen again. That's a guarantee I'd like to hear from the Minister. In addition, I wonder what the situation is now at the Sophianum, where there was also a very weak department, and in all those other schools with those recovery assignments. How's it going? Because it must not be the case that there is another group of students who suffer and that we will not be able to put out the flag here in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	It is precisely what took place last year that led us to continue with this enhanced monitoring. I can inform you that the enhanced supervision of the school exams has shown that they were of a level and that they are well completed. You know that it went wrong last year. In fact, the loss of teaching remains a constant concern and work is also being carried out in a variety of ways to ensure that, at the time of loss of teaching, it can also be compensated at other times or other ways of accompaniment. So one stays above the legal standard of education; that's what I've been made clear from the school. As far as communication with the parents is concerned, I think there's really a difference from last year. That's when parents' complaints stuck with the inspection. We can now see that the complaints lodged there have all led to further steps, including towards the school. In most situations, in a single situation, parents wanted to remain anonymous. This has also led to follow-up discussions and, where necessary, agreements on the pupils concerned. Can we give guarantees that nothing will go wrong? Of course, we hope that everything that has been done now, that all the guidance given, not only at this school but also at those other establishments where the enhanced supervision applies, will lead to good results in the exams and not to a repetition of the terrible drama that took place last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	It's a good thing the Minister says all this. Hopefully that will help, but I am left with the unpleasant feeling that a large number of parents and students seem to be worried about the situation in the same way as they were last year. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to be personally informed of the situation at the moment. Because if we have learned something then it is that we have to be careful to sail too much on the inspection here, and certainly in this case. I'm just saying it as loud as it is. Because the report that was published last year on the conduct of the inspection was not easy either. So very specifically the question to the Minister: is he prepared to inform himself, personally, of the situation, so that he can say with certainty that we will not get back last year's situation here and that on 12 June, if the outcome is there, the flags can remain at the top in Maastricht?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	During the debate we had just before Christmas in December to conclude everything that had taken place during the previous examination period, I myself indicated that I would not let go of this school. I've spoken to teachers by now. I've also spoken to those responsible for the administration. I promised you I'd have another follow-up meeting this month. That's on my agenda for tomorrow, so your question comes just a day before that conversation takes place. In this respect, too, we really keep our finger on the pulse and ensure, also through enhanced supervision, that we can keep track of what is happening within this school, which, of course, has to recover from a very difficult period, but which is doing everything I can to restore the confidence that has been harmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	We are all shocked by the mess that took place last year at LVO Maastricht. You would think it would have caused a shock in the province of Limburg, but over the past few months we have seen little evidence that there have always been incidents in Limburg with regard to education. The last few weeks alone: a cheating director in Heerlen, a rebellion at the Stella Maris in Meerssen, leaving the director there and now this news again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	... at the VMBO Maastricht. My question is as follows. There seems to be so much more going on in Limburg than just one or two schools. I wonder if the Education Inspectorate has any idea what is going on in Limburg. I would like to know whether the Minister can guarantee the quality of the Inspection of Education in Limburg. Aren't we assuming the reports they're writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	We made a number of clear agreements with each other in December, including how in the months after that, where we are now in the middle, we would look at these schools not only VMBO Maastricht but also other schools and see to what extent additional measures are needed. Those measures and those follow-up actions are currently being implemented. Some have already been completed, as I just mentioned about the report on the school exams at VMBO Maastricht. Of course, that's where we keep our finger on the wrist. I will also inform you about this in the near future, as I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mass class failure, up to over 100 hours. Sick teachers. Burn-outs. There's no replacement. This minister says: I feel like everything is happening at this school. Last week, we read in the newspaper that LVO, the completely merged educational moloch of nearly 35 schools, is putting all teachers with a flex contract on the street. If there is more than 100 hours of dropout while the school dome throws all teachers on the street with a flex contract, does the minister think that everything that should happen is happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have indicated that the maximum effort is being made to do what needs to be done. When it comes to the drop-out and everything behind it: the official inspection report has yet to be completed. On the basis of what I hear from the school itself, I say that this 100 hours relates in particular to care and well-being, where there was no replacement, not even in the wide area of the school. It was possible to provide for this later, so at a later stage compensatory measures were taken to stay above the legal standard of education. Those are not easy circumstances, I say right away. This school is having a hard time. The circumstances are tough. In this respect, we must support them in everything to ensure that they can continue to do their job well, also in the interests of the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	It remains remarkable that we read in the newspaper last week that all teachers with a temporary appointment are on the streets, also because we know that absenteeism is high. Does the Minister know if there's a relationship between those two? Does he know if the number of temporary contracts and absenteeism are related? If not, is he willing to investigate that? Is he also willing to make specific agreements with these schools about trying to keep as much as possible in service of teachers who now have a temporary contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have indicated that we have agreed with both the VMBO Maastricht and the other schools on how work is to be done in the coming period. The inspection supervises this more closely. I will report to the Chamber on that as soon as the reports are completed. So that's gonna happen pretty soon. I will specifically inform you about these personnel measures in the consultation I have with them tomorrow. So I think it's a little too soon to think there's a one-on-one connection between one and the other. But the fact that there is a lot of things going on around this school, that one is in difficult conditions and that one can keep education at level and also keep the supply wide, is a fact that we are all familiar with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
