ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is a VAO on ggz. A warm welcome to the Secretary of State. I would like to give the floor to Mrs van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week it came out that Quality Institute Akwa GGZ locks an old dataset from the former Benchmark GGZ Foundation because of a position of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Can the Secretary of State explain this? Quality registrations are essential for patient safety, for developing a learning culture in care and for keeping care affordable, and for other areas where we see quality registrations without problems. And then there's a motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2018 the police were involved in more than 90,000 reports relating to persons with confused behavior;]] [[Considering that the Law on mandatory ggz is introduced as of 1 January 2020 and that there is doubt as to whether the current instruments of the Law on compulsory ggz are sufficient to require the imposition of ggz care on people who are confused and cause nuisance;]] [[Whereas the presence of good interference for people with confused behaviour causing nuisance is important because then mandatory ggz care is no longer always necessary;]] [[noting that the State Secretary has undertaken to actively monitor the adequacy of the instruments of the law after the entry into force of the Law on mandatory ggz as of 1 January 2020 and that the observation measure, including judicial review, is missed in the current instruments;]] [[Calls on the Government to send the promised monitor on whether or not the instruments in the mandatory ggz Act are sufficient one year after the introduction of the law but no later than the first quarter of 2021 to the Lower House;]] [[calls on the Government also to agree with the sector on better and more commitment of interference for people with confused behaviour causing nuisances, and if the monitor after one year shows that there is a gap in the instruments of the Law mandatory ggz to prepare additional measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Kuik and Mr De Lange. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-463]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u3	Can Mrs Van den Berg indicate the difference between an observation measure and a crisis measure, and what would add an observation measure compared to a crisis measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u4	We do not say in advance that there is a gap, but if we look at the legal texts, we can imagine, in particular, that there is a need for observation where there is not yet a clear picture of what care needs to be taken. This may occur, for example, at a time when a person who is not yet known is showing behaviour that needs to be addressed, but cannot be immediately told what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u5	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I was only allowed to ask one question at a VAO. It is not clear to me at all how Mrs Van den Berg means it, but perhaps research should show that. I think we have a crisis measure. Perhaps the Secretary of State can answer the question of what is the difference between an observation measure and a crisis measure, and what would add an observation measure to that crisis measure. It's not clear to me. It is a very toned motion, but it is really not clear to me what this should add.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u7	Mr President, may I take one more shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u9	Again, the new law gives more opportunities to apply compulsive care. Mrs Agema rightly points that out, but we can see that there may be gaps in the category that I have just outlined of people who have not been affected in advance and where you do not yet know what kind of care you want to apply at that time. In the event of a crisis, you need to know that. In particular, where this is not yet known, we want the Secretary of State to monitor it. If it turns out to be completely zero, fine too, but if there is a gap in it, then we want action to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Diertens D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u11	Thank you, Madam President. In the debate, I discussed, among other things, the role of food, in institutions, but also as prevention. My motion is about that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ZonMW is working on a knowledge synthesis on the role of nutrition in mental health care (ggz);]] [[Whereas various studies show that not only nutrition but also exercise can play an important role both in the treatment of mental disorders and in the prevention of these disorders;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage in discussions with relevant parties within the ggz on the basis of knowledge synthesis and insights obtained with the aim of expeditious and national implementation in guidelines and standards, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the end of 2019;]] [[Invites the Government to consult with ZonMW and relevant parties within the ggz to consider whether and how the existing knowledge of moving around within the ggz can be better disseminated, and to inform the Chamber about this before the end of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-464]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u12	Mr. Chairman. I finished the book Anne last weekend, about the horrible murder of Anne Faber. In that I noticed a detail, which also struck me in the Thijs H. case, namely the retention period of camera images around ggz settings. Those images are not automatically stored. They are often overwritten after a week, while the maximum period allowed and can now at least be longer according to legislation. I believe that we should ensure this better, because incidents around such institutions can be expected more often. Of course, you don't want it to happen, but if there's an incident like this, you want that footage to be secured. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that camera images made in and around ggz institutions where psychiatric patients have the freedom to move outside the institution are of great importance for investigations into serious crimes, including in the case of Michael P. and -Thijs H.;]] [[Whereas in many cases such camera images are lost after a week by automatic transfer;]] [[Whereas a longer retention period of camera images could contribute to the protection of society by preventing possible further crimes;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how a mandatory retention period of camera images in and around ggz settings can be set at four weeks and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-465]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u13	I was wondering if I could sign Mrs. Kuik's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u14	Oh, yeah. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u15	Then you'll actually retable the motion with a second signatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u16	Do I have to do that officially, or can I just put a name under it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u17	You may now put a name under it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u18	For the Acts, I would like to inform you that the motion was co-signed by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA and then we will put another name under it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u19	All right. I now turn to Mr De Lange of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u20	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State has been ready during the general consultation that everything is being done to make the mandatory ggz Act work as of 1 January 2020. There are two other points on which I also have two motions for resolutions. My first motion concerns evening, night and weekend shifts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that evening, night and weekend services and hence the 24/7 crisis care in the ggz are still under pressure due to staff shortages;]] [[noting that the sector itself indicates that the rotation of services, and thus the guarantee of 7x24 hours of acute psychiatric care, is part of the psychiatrist's field;]] [[noting that despite agreements in the main lines agreement ggz that interested parties are planning to do so in autumn 2018, this has not yet produced concrete results;]] [[Whereas the need to rapidly resolve the problem of evening, night and weekend services remains high;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with all interested parties, to prepare a detailed legal framework by 1 January 2020 to allow all psychiatrists to participate in the evening, night and weekend services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Lange and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u21	My final motion concerns the exchange of information. Mrs Kuik also mentioned sad incidents that we have unfortunately also been talking about lately. But also think about the problems surrounding people with confused behaviour. That is what my motion is about: the exchange of data within the ggz, both in the ggz and with the security partners. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in practice there are still obstacles to an adequate exchange of information between ggz and the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the municipalities;]] [[noting that this may lead to dangerous situations and even victims;]] [[Whereas in the case of ggz clients suffering from a violent or sexual disorder, safety for people is unnecessarily compromised if professionals do not exchange sufficient data;]] [[Whereas professionals should be able to act at these times in order to avoid further suffering and ensure good care;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties, to come forward with concrete proposals for improvement in order to ensure and ensure a proper exchange of information between the ggz and the police, Public Prosecutor's Office and municipalities in the field of ggz and security, and to report on this to the Second Chamber by October 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Lange and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u22	I think this is a very nice motion, but I'm curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at this. Because I do miss words like "medical confidentiality." How do you see the relationship between your motion and that medical confidentiality? I'm still struggling with that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u23	I am also curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State. Of course, medical professional secrecy must also be taken into account, but it is broader about the possibility of exchanging data. And, of course, the guarantees surrounding medical professional secrecy must also be taken into account. But now a number of things seem to be unclear, not working properly in practice. Then many people knew a bit, but eventually they didn't manage to avoid very serious incidents with each other. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to do everything we can to do better in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u24	Thank you. Mr Renkema van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I look back at an AO in which it was about waiting times and about the labour market. I have tabled two motions on these points. The first motion concerns more direction in the task forces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at least 50,000 people in the Netherlands are on a waiting list for treatment in the ggz and that the waiting periods are up to 40 weeks;]] [[Whereas regional task forces should identify the causes of the waiting period, find solutions, focus and implement them, but the progress of these task forces is inadequate;]] [[considers that these waiting times are unacceptable and that decisive action is important;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a regional director to monitor and encourage the reduction of waiting lists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u26	And then my second motion, related to the labour market, and in particular to the position of psychiatrists who are hired as a social worker. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting thatzzp psychiatrists bill up to €185 per hour and sometimes even declare travel time;]] [[noting that a third of the psychiatrists are considering becoming selfemployed and only 3% of the institutions are able to fill the job of psychiatrist solely with an employment relationship;]] [[Whereas it is highly undesirable that more and more psychiatrists should be hired as a social worker, especially as this increases the workload;]] [[Whereas the healthcare budget should reach patients as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with relevant parties and ggz institutions to reach a maximum hourly rate for independent psychiatrists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-469]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u27	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Seven motions have been tabled and a few questions asked. The first motion, the one in part No. 463, belongs to Mrs Van den Berg c.s. Two things are asked in the operative part. It concerns two issues, namely interference and observation and monitoring of the adequacy of the mandatory ggz Act's instruments. I would like to say the following about meddling. As Mrs van den Berg and others will know, this is primarily a task of municipalities, to which they are obliged by the Wmo. Last year I informed all the municipalities by letter that they still have that responsibility. Although it is not so explicit in the law, this responsibility remains with municipalities. Municipalities must therefore be sufficiently equipped to give this meddling a hand and a foot. They must be enabled to do so, as Mrs van den Berg assumes; this is also the link with observation or any other measure to ensure that these forced measures can be avoided as much as possible. I would like to say one thing about meddling. I am constantly in conversation with municipalities about this. At the end of this calendar year, we want to give an overview of the situation in municipalities and how they have organised it to deal with the unnecessary conduct of people in a forced circuit. That's a commitment on that part. With regard to measuring the instruments, I find the two parts of the operative part difficult when it comes to planning. I did say in the AO that I'm going to monitor that. In my view, it is common practice for an evaluation to be carried out in a new law after five years. The law mandatory ggz is not just a little law. Making it possible to have an outpatient service is quite a thing. This law states that the evaluation will take place within two years. Within two years, I'd like to monitor, too. But I'm getting a little nervous about it, which is a little understatement when I'm asked in the operative part to have that clear picture within a year, after which I have to report in the first quarter of the year whether I'm going to expand the instruments. I think the Chamber is asking me about that. I fully understand the intention of Mrs Van den Berg and the other authors, but I would like to ask her kindly: please not that very tight deadline. I would like to do my utmost to clarify matters in the course of next year, for example in the third or fourth quarters. We're making a new, important law. It will be implemented next year. As Mr De Lange rightly says, the Secretary of State I am doing his utmost to ensure that this implementation takes place on 1 January. We will have another debate on this shortly. But if within a year we have to look at the adequacy of the instruments, I am over-asked and I do not think we take ourselves seriously either. So please move that deadline back. If I may direct the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u29	I am not going to say yes to that, because we now have six months to settle everything. Then it must be possible to monitor as from 1 January. If you can monitor from January 1st, you can also indicate after a year what that has resulted in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u30	In my argument, I have nothing to add. Of course, much remains to be done to allow this implementation to land properly, so that we can really get off to a good start on 1 January. I can assure you that even municipalities, especially mayors, are quite keen on the tasks they are assigned to them. So much remains to be done there. On January 1st we will start. I think it is far too quick to say within a year whether or not the instruments at our disposal to help people at home are adequate and whether there are gaps. Then we don't take our own new law seriously. So I want to have a little more time for that. Once again, if I may point out the motion in this way, it is perfectly manageable for me. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u31	But I believe that the author did not say that according to that reading. So then the verdict is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u32	Yes, if that hard deadline remains in the operative part, I would really advise against the motion, Mr President, unfortunately. But I'm sure we can come to an agreement. I'm trying to build a bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u33	Well, yeah... Finally, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u34	I'm just gonna sleep on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u35	Yes, so for now, your motion will be denied judgment. Then the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u36	Well, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u37	Oh, Mrs. Agema had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u38	Hello. Yes, I had also asked Mrs Van den Berg about the observation measure. What's the difference with the crisis measure? And what would that observation measure add? That's a real mystery to me. Mrs Van den Berg replied: it is for someone who is confused for the first time. But it seems to me that such a person is also eligible for a crisis measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u39	I intended to answer this question. In general consultation, I think I have spoken quite clearly about how I look at the observation measure. It wasn't taken out of the law for nothing either. But you're asking me where the difference is. I think you can explain that as follows. In the event of a crisis, there is a suspicion of a disorder in the client concerned and there is a concrete indication of imminent serious harm to the patient himself or to his environment. Then the crisis measure allows treatment in different degrees. That is the crisis measure. With the observation measure, it is clear that there is a psychological disorder in the eyes of the people who are targeted as an aid worker. However, it is not yet clear whether there could be serious harm to the patient himself or to the environment. That observation measure, as the term suggests, does include observation but not treatment. That's the jumping point. In the case of the crisis measure, there is treatment and the observation measure is not. I also said in the AO that you're going to burden someone with something without giving him a perspective on treatment. That's why this wouldn't be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u40	But then I don't understand the "judge chamber," apart from that term. This motion calls for an active monitoring of whether the instruments of the law are adequate and whether the observation measure including judicial review is missed in the current instruments. It is actually very strange that the motion can be given a Chamber of Appeal at all if it does not enjoy the preference of the Secretary of State. So I don't understand the whole judgment room, apart from that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u41	Yes, I understand Mrs Agema's intervention, but I would like to say the following. I have, of course, also heard in general consultation that several parties are in favour of the observation measure. I also want to see whether the instruments are adequate. Of course, I hope the conclusion will be yes. I would then like to leave open options for the future. As I made clear to Mrs van den Berg, it would also be premature for me to conclude after a year that we are missing the observation measure. I did not say in the debate: never an observation measure. So I'd like to keep that variant open. I am not in favour of it, but I do not want to close the door to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u42	Very briefly. I would just like to make it clear that we are not in favour of it either. It would therefore be a great pity if this motion were to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u43	That then creates a bond, and then Mrs Agema and I both hope that the instruments of the Law ggz are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u44	I would like to add something to that. Has the Secretary of State been informed that we are not able to find the measure of observation legally? So I am also a little bit of this: what are we going to do with this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u45	I've given the qualification judgment Chamber and I'll stick with that, because I'm willing to keep the variants that are there open. But once again, I cannot say it often enough. I hope that this measure will never be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u46	Just for clarity, because this creates a little confusion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u47	No, I'm gonna stick to qualifying Court for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u48	We have on this first motion, in part No. 463, said: do not recommend unless the author, Mrs van den Berg, adjusts the operative part in relation to the time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u49	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u50	That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u51	Now there's a little speech confusion. My qualification does not relate to the observation measure, but to the term. I have said that if I may refer to the motion in such a way as to allow me to move the assessment, the evaluation, which is backwards, it is acceptable to me and then it is up to the Chamber to decide. So it's about the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u52	Mrs van den Berg has indicated that she is not prepared to do so for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u53	No, I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u54	But it is about what judgment the Secretary of State is now taking if you do not at this time state that you are prepared to change her. Then the motion will be dissuaded. You can always say that you're changing her, and then she gets judgment room. At the moment, you have indicated that you are not ready to change her. That has everything to do with the discussion you have had on the deadline. The other part of the discussion was about another part of this motion. Since the time limit is a discussion point between you and the petitioner, the motion is currently denied judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u55	So I get it, I want to double-check this. I understand that if I'm willing to change the deadline, the motion will get judgment Chamber as an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u57	I'll take that. I'd like to take a quiet look at that before I say it right now. I want to take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u58	I'm sorry about this confusion of speech. I tried to make a quick hit by saying, if I may point out the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u59	Yes, but it always has to be with the consent of the petitioner and he's going to sleep on it for another night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u60	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u61	Then the motion to part No. 464.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u62	In the motion in part No. 464 by Mrs Diertens emphasizes the important role of nutrition and movement in the ggz. The cabinet is called to discuss this with the field. I'd like to do that and report on the results, so that motion will be judged by Chamber as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u63	The motion in part No. 464 gets judgment, Room. Then the motion to part No. 465.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u64	The motion by Mrs Kuiken and Mrs Van den Berg on item No. 465 is about the storage of camera images. The retention period is now one week. The operative part shall require that it be extended to four weeks. It should be examined whether this is possible and how it can be secured. For me, the crux is in the word "or" in "or that is possible," because there will be all kinds of privacy-sensitive aspects. If we take that into account, that is an acceptable starting point as far as I am concerned. I shall leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u65	The motion in part No. 465 gets judgment, Room. Yes, Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u66	You understand that I am very pleased with this judgment. I therefore hope that the motion will be adopted; I assume that will be the case. Could we then, in a reasonable time, get a feedback on how the cabinet is going to implement this motion, should it be adopted? Then I will not have to do so when the motion has actually been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u67	As far as I'm concerned, that's fine. But I realize, as I say this, that I am actually saying this on behalf of the Minister of JenV, who will be the first in charge. But I will, of course, consult with him in the cabinet. We are doing our best to clarify this matter as quickly as possible and to inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u68	Thank you very much. These are issues that cause great social unrest. We can't completely rule out the possibility that an incident will never happen anywhere again. If the cabinet wants to take this up with speed, I am very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u69	Then the motion to part No. 466.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u70	The motion in part No. 466 belongs to members De Lange and Van den Berg and deals with evening, night and weekend services. The question is to prepare a legal regime because the sector is dwindling and dwindling. In any case, that is my translation of what Mr De Lange said. I said in the debate that I was visiting institutions and I am visiting a lot of people who see that in practice it is not that bad with the commitment, even in the institutions where people say that the commitment to evening, night and weekend services was a problem. I'd like to get a better look at the situation. That's not a postponement of execution. I see this as a trail parallel to Mr De Lange's request. He says that the sector would pick it up on the basis of the main agreement, but that this would take too long. He therefore asks me to prepare legislation. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if the sector itself came out. I believe that Mr De Lange fully shares that view. In that light, I do see his motion as a push in the back towards the sector and the cabinet. Something needs to be arranged, preferably by the sector, but if it does not succeed, legislation must be put in place. I would like to report to the Chamber at the end of this year what legal possibilities we see. So this motion also gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u71	The motion in part No. 466 gets judgment, Room. Then the motion to part No. 467.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u72	The motion in part No. 467 also belongs to Mr De Lange, together with Mrs Kuik. That motion is about the data exchange. There's quite a lot to say in the motion. This is a point that concerns all of us. This needs to be clarified. I would remind you that a motion has been adopted by Mr van der Staaij and others, although I do not know who the co-signators were. It calls on the Cabinet to examine the elements of the security domain at risk of accessing privacy to the data exchange necessary for adequate identification of the risks (33628, No. 47). That motion is addressed to the cabinet, but the ball is at the ministry of JenV. That trail runs. In the light of this motion, I think it would be good to emphasise that. In addition, I would like to point out that next week or the following week we will be dealing with the adaptation law which amends the law on compulsory ggz and the law on care and coercion, at least that is the intention of the cabinet. These amendments are before the House. One of the elements of the compulsory ggz law is precisely the regulation of data sharing between care and police. I would like to ask Mr De Lange: shall we have the debate before he puts his motion to the vote? As far as I am concerned, it can also be extended in that debate. I fully understand the content of this motion. In fact, the cabinet also sees the sense of urgency. However, I would urge Mr De Lange to hold this motion until after the adoption of the compulsory ggz Act. It will be debated in plenary next week or the following week. It deals with the same theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u73	The suggestion is to hold the motion. Mr. De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u74	I believe that the treatment of that law is specifically about something else. This motion calls very strongly for this exchange of data to be looked at from the ggz's perspective as well. Of course, the subject has been discussed at various times. I think it is very important to do it from a ggz perspective. I think this is a motion of which everyone feels the urgency. I'm glad the Cabinet indicates this urgency. As far as that is concerned, I just think it would be a good idea for the Chamber to give a ruling on this. I think we're all working in the same direction. I think it is appropriate to express this urgency and I would therefore like to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u75	And then the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u76	Then there is the next problem. It says: Report in October 2019. It's a broad motion. There is indeed a trace of the implementation of the Van der Staaij and others motion. We have next week or the week after the treatment of the Law mandatory ggz. Then this would be a third track. I am sympathetic to the content of this motion, but I think that elements of it are already being carried out through other traces. Then it's gonna be a very complex story. Hence my friendly but urgent request to hold the vote on this matter. If Mr De Lange says that he is restricting the motion to the exchange of information within the ggz, then I think the operative part should be adjusted. Then I don't know if I can come up with a clasp-and-ready story in October 2019. Then I'd like to take a look at that, too. If Mr De Lange says he is going to put the motion to the vote, I would advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u77	I hear what's being said about the deadline. I'm willing to take that deadline out. I believe that there will still be a very enforceable motion. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're deleting the deadline and the rest of the motion is still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u78	So let's be a little friendly to each other. If that term goes out, I think we can shake hands. Then I'll give the "judge chamber" motion as a qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u79	Okay. Mr De Lange therefore amends his motion as has just been discussed and then the motion gets judgment Chamber. It's about the motion in part No. 467.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u80	Then there will be two more motions from Mr Renkema. The motion in part No. 468 is about naming directors per region to solve the waiting lists properly. We have had a lot of exchanges of views about solving the waiting lists, including in general consultations. However, I am charmed by the products produced by the regional task forces. In fact, I am impressed by the results that have already been achieved. If we are going to say that we are going to put directors on it now, before that outcome, we are going to disrupt the process, as it were, which may sound a bit heavy, which is actually going very well in the regions. I don't think that's necessary. I can imagine Mr Renkema reminding me of this one more time when things are not going well in a region and saying: put a director on it. But to parachut that all over the Netherlands, I really find shooting a mosquito with a cannon; I would almost say that. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. I understand the intent. Hold me to it when we come up with new waiting list data during the course of this year, but as a general instrument I find it very rude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u81	The motion in part No. 468 is not recommended. Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u82	I have one more question. The director's instrument is not put aside by the Secretary of State, I understand from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u83	No, I said: let us give the regional task forces a chance of success first, because they do a lot of good work. They really do a lot of work and there meet people who hadn't heard of each other's existence three years ago. But I think it is logical for Mr Renkema to say that this motion may not be, but I will hold you to it in the short term to see if it is not appropriate to put a director on it in one or more regions. But the judgment continues to be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u84	The motion in part No. 468 is not recommended. Finally, the motion in part No. 469.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u85	Mr Renkema asked for a ceiling in rates paid to independent psychiatrists who were willing to run services. I get that wish. I also think some people get itchy hands from that. But I think it's very far-reaching if we do that. It's not our responsibility to set tariffs. The institutions make an independent assessment, in which, I believe, institutions do not accept all the tariffs. I want to leave the responsibility where it belongs, with the institutions. The NZa also determines the rates that are decent. That will always be the starting point. So I don't want to sit on the wrong board and play chess. I don't want to take on any responsibility that's not supposed to be with us. For that reason, I would like the motion in part No. Four hundred and ninety-nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u86	The motion in part No. 469 is not recommended. Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u87	This also applies to a possible examination of such a maximum rate? I remember the Secretary of State during the AO saying: I actually think it's very high rates; I really don't think it's possible, because this is at the expense of the healthcare budget. I wonder, therefore, whether an investigation into its potential might be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u88	I may have slipped, but if I said it shouldn't be possible, that would be a political statement which I myself indicated I had to do something with. Here's what we're gonna do. In the main agreement ggz, for example, we have made agreements to make contracting more attractive. We hope that more psychiatrists will return to the service of institutions so that they can have an attractive profession, a good reward and a full voice in such an institution. I want to put my cards on that rather than on the capping of tariffs. So I'm gonna keep dissuading the motion. Then there is a question from Mrs Van den Berg about Akwa and the quality records. She asked if it was true that the Dutch Data Protection Authority said that the place should only be frozen for a moment. It is true that the AP recently, in my opinion last week, said in a draft opinion that ROM data is personal data. Based on this, Akwa has decided to ensure that previously obtained ROM data cannot be used. That's seen by Akwa as a safe route. Akwa was already developing the ROM-instrumentarium, as you know. There's gonna be a new set of instruments. A lot of attention is paid to the fact that this should be in line with regulations on personal data. This is an important point in the development of a new system. The concept judgement is involved. I cannot sufficiently emphasise that the opinion of the AP is a draft opinion. This should lead to a final opinion. Akwa's gotta like that. Then we can also give an explanation. I think Akwa is right to choose the safe route by saying: I wouldn't share that data so easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u89	For patient safety and to develop a learning culture, it is extremely important that you can compare results with each other. Let me say again that orthopedics are a good example of this. Do I understand now that the Secretary of State, when this final opinion comes, will also give an appreciation, or that we will make adjustments? It can't be that we can't do quality registrations anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u90	My predecessor, Minister Schippers, has also given an appreciation on the basis of previous opinions from the AP. I think it makes sense that I will do the same and that I will have to come up with very heavy guns if I were to deviate from the advice. So I'm waiting for that advice. I think it would be a good idea to say to the Chamber that we will then state our position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u91	That seems to me to be a commitment, Mrs van den Berg. Thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-20.u92	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I'm suspending until 6:30. Then we will continue the debate on the Groningen earthquake.
