ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the CDA, for her question to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I have not yet seen, but who is present somewhere in the building. I hear he's coming. We'll wait a minute. The Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport has arrived. Then we go to Mrs Kuik's question on behalf of the CDA about the increase in nitrous acid patients in hospitals in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Slaggroom cartridges are of course intended for use in the spray can and not to shut off your brain from oxygen. Why would you want to do that? Yet the drug is popular among young people. It seems harmless and the use is low-threshold, but it's not innocent. It is increasingly becoming apparent that it has an impact on health and road safety. In the AD you can read that the hospitals in The Hague see an increase in patients using nitrous oxide. Rehabilitation doctors warn of an increase in paralysis symptoms with frequent use of nitrous oxide and the Burn Center also raises alarms. In a short time, several road accidents have occurred due to the use of nitrous oxide. Two years ago, another 720,000 kilos of nitrous oxide came into our country through the ports. Today, that's 1.2 million kilos. That will not only be due to the success of Heel Holland Bakt. How does the Secretary of State view this increase? The CDA is deeply concerned. In December I already asked questions about limiting the availability of nitrous oxide for young people under 18 years of age. The Secretary of State and Minister Bruins would take additional measures to counter this. How's this going? It's still very easily available. On King's Day we saw that in Amsterdam many people became unwell. The Secretary of State would make agreements with the industry. That was a year and a half ago. What's the result of this? Is he satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	At the height of the chair I can see that Mr.Grapperhaus has been standing here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	You're both the same size.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, it is quite right for Mrs Kuik to draw attention to the problem of nitrous oxide. The cabinet is also concerned about this, and I believe that this also applies to other groups, but it is to her the honour that she is constantly drawing attention to it. It is indeed a concern. In response to the questions, I would like to say a few things. Firstly, nitrous oxide is a regular and legal product in the Netherlands, which is both medically used and used for the application of whipped cream patterns, as Mrs Kuik rightly said. No alternative gases are available for spraying whipped cream. Well, I think her suspicion is true that Heel Holland Bakt is indeed successful, but not so successful that that explains the extra import. I share the concerns of Mrs Kuik. It is worrying that nitrous oxide is being used improperly. I'm committed to discouraging that. I would like to state what we, as a cabinet, are doing for that purpose. The use is high among young people. Research shows that this is often limited to experimentation and that the use of nitrous oxide leads to relatively little health damage, but we read a lot about excesses in the newspaper. However, the improper use of a product is never without risk, according to the reports, especially in combination with other products such as alcohol. In most cases of accidents there was talk of the combination of nitrous oxide with alcohol. In case of excessive use, health damage may indeed occur. I therefore believe it is important that we continue to focus on information on the risks associated with the use of nitrous oxide. That's our first line. We want to keep a close eye on its improper use. What are we doing? I sent a letter to the Chamber at the end of April on our approach to drug use, the prevention policy on drug use. I have announced that there will be a new risk assessment of nitrous oxide. This is carried out by the Coordination Point Assessment and Monitoring new drugs, the CAM. That research is very important to me, because it shows what the real risks are. We're talking about a legal product; it's not banned anywhere. I really need that research to have an insight into whether there is a legal hook for example to act restrictively. That investigation will be completed this autumn. It is a serious investigation, and I hope to have it delivered in October. Mrs. Kuik also asked about the increase: how about that? I also want to put this into perspective, but that is what Trimbos is doing in the broader research into the use of young people. This research is also ongoing: how is the use actually? What is at least as important is that Trimbos develops new prevention tools to be used in schools. These are some tracks. The last question: what did you do in the conversation with business?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	You should've started with that, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	Of course, we had that conversation. This leads to a number of vendors, including very familiar ones, saying: we're taking it out of the shelves. That has not led to an overall retreating movement. You can't. At least that doesn't happen because of the simple fact that it's a legal product. That's why I really need the research I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you for the answer by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State also states that he wants to investigate the use. I think it's pretty obvious that's huge. That is what we see in the party scene, and that is what we hear from groups from all over the country, from municipalities from all over the country that are also affected by this. Does the Secretary of State recognise that municipalities struggle with this and that they cannot deal with this nuisance alone? In addition, I asked for a ban on online sales to minors. Has that been looked at already? The Secretary of State says we've spoken to industry. It is clear that that is not enough to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	In response to the first question: municipalities struggling with problems see an increase. Still, I think it's a good thing that Trimbos gets a good idea of where the increase is. The AD article that gives rise to these questions also states that it is not exactly clear whether there is an increase everywhere and how it is distributed in the country. The least we want, I think, is to have an exact picture: what about that increase? That's unrelated to the approach. Mrs Kuik is right to draw attention to this. Municipalities experience nuisance, and that is the reason for them, for example, to ban the use of festivals. They can do that based on the title nuisance, not health. We are either discussing a common approach with local authorities in the very short term. That is a promise. Then there's the online sale. It is perhaps a little unsatisfactory, as I think so too, but here too, I will have a title to say that we can act with restraint on online sales only once that research has been carried out. A parallel is Mrs Kuik has previously asked questions about energy drinks. We are not going to ban them, but we want to reduce them. With nitrous oxide, we want to know to what extent it is really harmful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u11	It is very restless in the Chamber and we are still working on oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u12	I was done with my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u13	I noticed that, but it's disturbing. Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. Then I will go to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is right that the Secretary of State should draw attention to information. I think young people always want to experiment. If it's not with nitrous oxide, it's with another agent. My question is actually how the Secretary of State is going to help schools to find a place for this information and, in particular, what role he sees in it for the health services and youth doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u15	A logical question, which is, by the way, about the policy that my colleague from Education, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education, and the Minister from VWS, which is about youth, are about. I would like to talk to these colleagues about how we can best shape that. New information material is available, prevention material, from the Trimbos. We do not want a store full of products that are not taken away, so we will certainly discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u16	Is that what the Chamber gets information about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u17	That's fine, Mr. Chairman. We'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u18	The President has already asked my question when we will get that information. So it's already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you. Then Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u20	That would also have been my question, how the Secretary of State in the intervening period, in the period before we get the information from the coordination point, thinks that we can better inform young people about its harmful effects. I want to ask him another question. At the moment there are even two- and five-litre bottles available. What can we do, for example, to limit the availability of these large quantities in evening shops? Can the information from the coordination point for the debate in the Chamber come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u21	Let me get right to that last question. If I am correct, there is a debate scheduled for 10 October, a general discussion, on the drug letter. I'll do my utmost to get the research to produce before then, so we know what we're talking about about about the phenomenon of nitrous oxide. On Mr Voordewind's question about how we communicate with education and how we ensure that the educational material reaches the schools, I think I have already answered Mr Renkema's question. The third question was how to prevent those two- and five-litre bottles from being so massive on offer everywhere. I share that concern. At the same time, it is very unsatisfactory for me, because it is on the shelves in the shops. We appeal to their social responsibility: be wary of that. A number of shops take it out of the shelves and don't sell it to minors either, but we're talking about a legal product and I need the CAM research to see if there's a hook to take it much harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We see that large traders limit it both online and physically in stores. They either registered it or took it all the way out of the market. It seems to me that this is a serious danger, and that rhymes with it, and I do not think it is sufficient with the urgency that the Secretary of State expresses. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u23	That is also a fair question. I think these companies deserve all the credit. You might want to say that these companies know what it's like to be socially responsible, because they see risks. But seeing risks doesn't mean it's a product that's illegal. There are also other products that are not illegal and can cause damage. Then it is very difficult as a government to act against companies that do not take their social responsibility. I hope that we will have an instrument in our hands after the review of the CAM, but it may also be that the CAM says that it is not sufficient to demonstrate that there is a significant risk profile in it. I hope, therefore, to inform the House more about this this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u24	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. Can the findings of these companies and their reasons for not offering this anymore be taken into account in the investigation? Can they also provide some of the information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u25	I do not think the CAM is investigating the sales methods of companies. That's not part of the investigation. I do want to promise that I'll see if we can get an insight into that somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time.
